{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V11 1895","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v11_1895.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V11 1895","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF tHe InCOrPOratEli
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
VOLUME XI.
(CONTAINING PARTS XX\TII—XXIX.)
1895
The rcspo1i$ibUity for both the Jacls and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
London
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER and CX^J^imited,
.CHARING CROSS ROAJ^^K I n/^T^S.
1895.
r:,-.v 31 m *
MAY SI li
PROCEEDINGS
OF tHe InCorPOrated
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX TO VOLUME XI.
1895.
A.
Abbott, Mrs., " The Georgia Magnet," Performances of ... 219, 223, 224
Ailams, M., Case contributed by ' 375
Aidé, Hamilton, Alleged Mediumship of Jesse Shcpard 217
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research, List of Members 626
Anonymously contributed Cases 346, 378,418, 439, 446, 527
Anthony,-W. E., M. D., Case contributed by 581
Apparitions and Thought-Transference, by Frank Podmore—Review of... 149
Associates, Members and—List of 603
Atlay, Mrs., Case contributed by 487
Automatic Writing, Cases of 64-69, 463, 477
B.
B., Madame, Case of 210, 325, 328, 329
Baker, Mrs., Case contributed by 521
Baldwin, Mrs., Alleged Mediumship of 225
Banister, Rev. E. D. , Case contributed by 537
Blavatsky, Madame—E. Garrett and W. S. SolovyofF on the Alleged
Occult Powers of ... 155
Boirac, Prof. E.—" L'Hypoth£se du Magnctiame Animal," Review of ... 599
Bonatti, M., Case recorded by 477
Brown, C. Hazen, Ca<e contributed by 4'-4
ii Index to Volume XI.
0.
C, Mr., Case contributed by 439
C, Mrs., Case contributed by 488
Carbert, T., Case contributed by 517
Cavazzoni, Angelina, Telepathic Experiments with 235
Chaffe, W. H., Case contributed by 403
Cbaproniere, Mrs., Case contributed by... .: 448
Clairvoyance, Cases of Apparent 133-137, 421, 423, 507
„ Experiments in 174
Claughton, Mrs. , Case contributed by 547
Cleary, Miss K. M., Case contributed by 517
Clouston, Dr., Case recorded by 354
Coburn, Newlands, Case contributed by 520
Coghill, Col. K., Case contributed by ... 489, 490
Cook, J., M.D. (Gentleman's Magazine), Case recorded by 535
Cooper, Alfred, Case contributed by 505
Cope, Rev. C. H., Case contributed by ... 568
Crawford, Mrs. S. J., Case contributed by 437
Credulity, Resolute, F. W. H. Myers on 213
Crippen, Rev. T. G., Cases recorded by 532, 533
Critcherson, Mrs., Case contributed by 384-387
Crocq, Dr., " L'Hypnotisme et le Crime", by—Review of 147
Crosby, Mrs., Case contributed by 379
D.
D'Arc, Jeanne, The Voices of, by Andrew Lang 198
Dariex, Dr., Case recorded by 453
Davey, S. J., Account of a Sitting with Mr. Husk 231
Davis, Mrs. Everett, Case contributed by 380 389
Dawes, E. C, Case contributed by 582
Despine, Dr. , on some Hypnotic Phenomena 357
Dill, J. Gordon, M.A., M. D., Dipsomania and Hypnotism 18
Dipsomania and Hypnotism —
Dr. J. G. Dill, on 18
„ „ C. T. Green, on 22
Dalley, Rev. B , Case contributed by .. 493
E.
Eardley, Lady, Case contributed by 339
Ermacora, Dr. G. B., Cases contributed by 466, 467, 474
„ „ ', Rivista di Studi Psichici," Review of 171
,, ,, Telepathic Dreams experimentally induced ... 235
Index to Volume XI. iii
F.
Finzi, Dr., " Rivisti di Studi Psichici," Review of 171
Fletcher, Mrs. Mary, of Madeley, Case recorded by 534
Foxton, Hartas, Case contributed by 518
Fryer, Rev. A. T., Case contributed by 513
o.
Gale, J. E., Case contributed by _ 397
Garrett, E., " Isis Very Much Unveiled" by, Review of 155
" Georgia Magnet " (Mrs. Abbott), Performances of 219, 223, 224
Glardon, Rev. Ang. , Case contributed by 431
Goudard, Dr. H., Experiments with Mrs. Abbott 219
Grange, Miss C. H. , Case contributed by 394
Gray, M. H., Case contributed by 421
Green, C. Theodore, Hypnotism and Dipsomania 22
„ ,, Subliminal Consciousness and Auiestlietici 353
Gridley, Mrs., Case contributed by 483
Griffing, Mrs. , Case contributed by 462
Guebhard, M. Adrien, Case recorded by .. 411
Gurney, Edmund, Memorial Library Catalogue 601
H.
H., Mrs. F., Case contributed by ... .„ ... 429-430
Hale, Bishop, Case contributed by 570
Haggard, J. B. , Case contributed by 491
Hamilton, Duchess of, Case contributed by 50.V.r,06
Hamilton, Miss R. B., Case contributed by 373
Hanscom, G. A., Case contributed by 399
Harris, D. Fraser, Case contributed by 426
Hastings, Dr. Caroline, Case contributed by 483
Herrington, G., Case contributed by 429
Heywood, Ch., Case contributed by ... 501
Hill-Tout, Charles, Psychical Phenomena bearing upon the question of
Spirit Control 309
Hodgson, Dr. R., Case contributed by 415
„ „ Experiments with Mrs. Abbott 223, 224
Howard, Lady Mabel, Case contributed by 396
Howe, W. W., Case contributed by 403
Hulin, Prof. G., Case contributed by 545
Husk, Mr., Alleged Mediumship of 217, 228, 231
Hypnotic Committee, Report of 594
Hypnotism, Curative 18, 22, 147, 148
„ Experiments in Thought-Transference 594-597
iv Index to Volume XI.
Hypnotism, Miscellaneous Phenomena of 18-23, 145-148, 162-171, 235,
321-325, 328-330, 356-358, 362, 406, 467, 529, 594, 599
,, Recent Books on 145, 162, 599
Hyslop, Prof., Case contributed by 360
„ Experiments with Mrs. Abbott 223, 224
L
ISnard, M., and Mademoiselle, Case contributed by 448, 450
Ivey, T., Case contributed by ... 509,511
J.
Jameson, Mrs. , Case contributed by 543
Jeanne d'Arc, The Voice? of, by Andrew Laug ... 198
Johnson, Miss Alice—Review of " Ueber die Trugwahrnehmung," by
Herr Parish .. ... 162
K.
Kelsoe, W. A., Case contributed by 522
Kempton, C. W., Case contributed by 417
Kennedy, J. H., Case contributed by 441
Kingsbury, B. B., Case contributed by .. 429
Kinsolving, Dr. G. H., Case contributed by .„ 495
L.
Lach-Szyrma, Rev. W. S., Case contributed by 351
Lalande, M., Caso recorded by ... 346
„ Phenomena of " Paramnesia " ... 345
Lancaster, Miss Maud, Experiments with 697
Laner, Rev. Solon, Experiments with Mm. Abbott 223
Lang, Andrew, Case Contributed by 553
,, The Voices of Jeanne D'Arc 198
Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., Review of Prof. Boirac's " L'Hypothese du
Magnetisme Animal " 599
,, ,, Review of " Rivista di Studl Psichici " 171
„ „ Translation of W. S. Solovyoffs " Modern
Priestess of Isis," Review of 155
Leech, T. F..M.D., Case contributed by 507
Liibeault, Dr. , Case contributed by 527, 528
Lodge, Prof. Oliver, Experiments with Mrs. Abbott 219
Lourctes, On the Cures at ... . 218, 216
Lukens, Dr. Anna, Case contributed by ... 500
Index to Volume XI. v
If.
M., Hos. Mrs., Case contributed by 4411
M., W. H., Case contributed by 509
MaeDonald, Mrs. , Case contributed by 372, 373
Manning, Mrs. , Case contributed by 355
Manzim, Signa Maria, Dr. Ermacora's Experiment** with ... 235, 466, 467
Members and Associates of the I.S. P. R., List of .. 603
„ ,, American Branch, List of 626
Meetings of the Society I, 173, 333
Menon-Cornuet, M., Case contributed by 452
Mesnet, Dr. ," Le Somnambulisrae Provoqu6," Review of 145,147
Moore, Rev. H. , Case recorded by 534
Moses, C. W., Case contributed by v 419
Moses, W. Stainton, Experiences of, F. W. H. Myeison 24
„ ,, Analysis of Phenomena 24-26,107-113
„ Automatic Writings 64-107
,, ,, Physical Phenomena (Miscellaneous) 24-94
„ "Spirit Identity,'' Cases pointing to 31,35,36,39,
42-49, 53, 70-107
,, ,, „ Table of cases 95,96
Moulton, Mrs. L. Chandler, Case recorded by ... „ 580
Myers, F. W. H. - Experiences of W. Stainton Moses 24
„ „ Resolute Credulity ... 913
„ Subliminal Self, The 334
,, „ Precognition ... ... 408
,, ,, ,, Retrocognition , 334
,, ,, ,, Time, Diagram and Scheme of Human
Faculty in Relation to.. ... 586 501
N.
Newbold, W. Romaine—Review of "Apparitions and Thought-Trans-
ference," by F. Podmore , 149
Newnham, Rev. P. H., Case coniributed by 411
Norman, Commander F. M., R.N., Case contributed by 393
O.
Ofpicers and Council of the I.S.P.R., 1895 and 1896 . ... 602, 603
P.
P., Mrs. H. M., Case contributed by 498
Paladino, Ensapia, Experiments with 333
Parish, Edmund -" Ueber die Trugwahrnehmung," Review of ... . 162
Parker, Captain, Case contributed by ... 513
vi Index to Volume XI.
Parsons, D. J., M.D., Cases contributed by 364, 427, 459
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism —Miscellaneous ...24-64, 217, 2'28, 231
Pierce, A. H., Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration ? ... 317, 325
Pitres, Dr., on Variations of Personality 356
Plot, Di. Robt., Case recorded by 538
Podmore, Frank, "Apparitions and Thought-Transference " by—Review of 149
,, Review of E. Garrett's " Isis very much Unveiled " ... 155
,, ,, W. S. SolovyofFs "A Modern Priestess of Isis " 155
,, Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration ? 325
Pratt, Thos. , Case contributed by 428
Premonitions, Cases of 411-585
Q.
Q., Lady, Case contributed by 577
R.
Rawson, U. G., Experiments in Thought-Transference 2
Resolute Credulity, by F. W. H. Myers 213
Reviews 145, 149, 155, 162, 599
Richet, M. Ch., Case contributed by 358
Ridley, Miss, Case contributed by 481
Rivista di Studi Psicbici, Review of, by Walter Leaf 171
Romanes, Dr. G. J., Case contributed by 440
Ropes, J. C, Case contributed by 582
S.
S., Dr. and Mrs., Case contributed by ., ... 455
Sanger, C. P., Analysis of Mrs. Verra'l's " Card" Experiments 193
Sargent, R. W., Case contributed by 402
Savage, Rev. M. J., Case contributed by 379
Scott, Capt. , Case contributed by 571
Shagren, Mrs., Case contributed by 444-445
Shepard, Jesse, Alleged Mediumship of ... 217
Skilton, Mr. , Case contributed by 559
Smith, G. A., on Mrs. Baldwin's Exhibition 225
,, Dr. Henry, Case contributed by 458
,, Martyn, Case contributed by 389
Solovyoff, W. S., " A Modern Priestess of Isis," by—Review of 155
Squires, J. L., Case contributed by 397-398
Spirit Control, Some Psychical Phenomena Bearing on the Question of—
By C. Hill-Tout 309
Spirit Identity, Mr. W. S. Moses' " Experiences "—Cases pointing to
31, 35, 36, 39, 42-45, 49, 53, 70-107
,, " Abraham Florentine " Case 53,82
Index to Volume XI. vii
Spirit Idenity, Table of Cases 95, 98
Stewart, I. J., Case contributed by 420
Stillman, Mrs. , Case contributed by 369
St. Simon, Due de, Case recorded in his " Memoires" (1706) 530
Sturgis, Dr. Russell, " Use of Hypnotism," Review of 145, 147
Subliminal Messages, On the Apparent Sources of, by " Miss X " ... 114
Subliminal Self, F. W. H. Myers on 334
„ ,, ,, Precognition 408
,, ,, ,, Retrocognition 334
,, or Unconscious Cerebration ?—A. H. Pierce on 317
„ ,, ,, F. Podmore on 325
Suddick, S. T., M.D., Case contributed by 432
Taroue, Mrs., Case contributed by 444
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced, by Dr. G. B. Krmacora ... 235
Telepathy and Subliminal Messages, " Miss X." on 114-140
Theosophy, Claims of—Recent Books on 155
Thought-Transference, Apparitions and—by F. Podmore, Review of ... 149
„ Experimental 2, 235, 455, 466
,, ,, „ Actions Induced 7-9,14
„ „ „ Ideas and Mental Pictures 3, 15, 180, 181,45."l
,, „ „ Pictures and Diagrams 3, 5, 9, 15, 180-181
Playing Cards 5-7, 12-14, 17, 177
„ Reproductions (Plates) 3-5,10,11,15,180
„ ,, Hypnotic, Dreams Induced ... 235, 267, 292, 466, 407
,, ,, ,, Playing-Card Experiments 594
,, ,, ,, Reproductions (Plates) 308
„ „ Spontaneous ... 117-140,178,179,236,237, 474
Thoulet, Prof., Case contributed by 503
Trotter, Dr. II., Case contributed by 364
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D.—Recent Books on Hypnotism, Heviews of ... 145
V.
Vas Deusen, R. T., Case contributed by 367
Van Eeden, Dr., " Psycho-Therapie"—Review of ... 145
Van Renterghem, Dr., "Psycho-Therapie"—Review of 145
Vane, Lady, Case contributed by 395
Vtnn, Mrs., Case contributed by 481
Verrall, Mrs., Experiments on Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge ... 174
„ „ C. P. Sanger's Analysis of " Card " Experiments of ... 193
,, ,, Telepathic Experiences 177-181
Vincent, R. H , " Elements of Hypnotism " by—Review of ... 145,148
Voices of Jeanne d'Arc, The, by Andrew Lang 198
Vradenburg, M. E., Case contributed by ,.. 514
viii Index to Volume XI.
W. -
W. E., Case contributed by 443
W., Mr., Cases contributed by ,., 423,463
Wack, W. H., Case contributed by 370
Wait, Marshall, Case contributed by 422
Watts, J. Hunter, Case contributed by 374
Weiss, Mrs., Case contriubted by 522-523
Wilkie, F., Case contributed by 375-377
Williams, Phillip, Case contributed by 518
Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Case contributed by... 573
Woodd, Mrs. Basil K., and others —Case (Family Warning) contributed by
538-542
Wyman, W. H., Case contributed by 416
X.
X., Miss, On the Apparent Sources of Sibliminal Messages ,.. . 114
Y., Mr. and Mbs., Clairvoyant Experiments of 188-190
Young, C. Mayne, Case recorded by 367
Young, Miss I., Case contributed by .. 568
Z.
Z., Lady, Cases contributed by 497-498
CONTENTS.
Pai;e
General Meetings 1
Experiments in Thought-transference. By Henry G. Rawhon,
Barrister-at-Law ......... 2
Dipsomania and Hypnotism. By John Gordon Dill, M.A., M.D., and
a Case by C. Theodore Green, M.R.C.8., L.R.C.P. (Lond.) 18
The Experiences of \V. Stainton Mosos. —II. By Frederic W. H.
Myers . , 24
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. By " Miss X." 114
Supplement.
Reviews :—
RCcent Books on Hypnotism. By C. Lloyd Ti'ckey, M.D. 145
Mr. F. Podmore's ' ' Apparitions and Thought-trans
ference." By Wm. Romaine New-bold, Ph. D. . 149
Mr. W. Leaf's " Modern Priestess of Isis " (translation
from W. S. Solovyoff), and Mr. E. Garrett's "Isis,
very much Unveiled." By Frank Podmore . . 155
Herr Edmund Parish's " Ueber die Trugwahrnehmung."
By Miss Alice Johnson 162
" Rivista di Studi Psichici." By Walter Leaf, Litt. D. 171
General Meetings 173
Some Experiments on the Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge.
By Mrs. A. W. Verrall 174
Analysis of Mrs. Verrall's Card Experiments. By C. P. Sanger, F.S.S. 193
The Voices of Jeanne d'Arc. By Andrew Lang .... 198
Resolute Credulity. By Frederic W. H. Myers .... 213
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. By Dr. G. B. Ermacoka 235
Some Psychical Phenomena bearing upon the question of Spirit
Control. By Charles Hill^Tout 309
Supplement.
Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration ?
I. By Arthur H. Pierce 317
II. By Frank Podmore 325
General Meeting ........... 333
The Subliminal Self. By Frederic W. H. Myers.
Chapter VIII. The Relation of Supernormal Phenomena
to Time ;—Retrocognition ..... 334
Chapter IX. The Relation of Supernormal Phenomena
to Time ;—Precognition . . .... 408
Report of the Hypnotic Committee for 1894—5 .... 594
Supplement.
Review :—
Professor Boirac's " L'Hypothese du Magnetisme AnimaL"
By Walter Leaf, Litt. D 599
Supplementary Catalogue of the Edmund Gurney Library . . 601
List of Members and Associates 602
List of Members and Associates of the American Branch - , 626
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 67st General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, July 13th, at 4 p.m. ; Mr. \V. Crookks
in the chair.
Professor Sidgwick read a paper on " Disinterested Deception."
Mr. F. W. H. Myers addressed the meeting on the subject of
"Physical Phenomena occurring in the presence of Mr. Stainton
Moses."
The 6Sth General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
October 26th, at 4 p.m. ; Professor Sidgwick in the chair.
Professor Lodge read a " Report on Unusual Physical
Phenomena occurring in the presence of an Entranced Person
(Eusapia Paladino)."
The 69th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
December 7th, at 8.30 p.m. ; Dr. Leaf in the chair.
"Miss X." read "A Provisional Account of an Enquiry into
Second Sight in the Highlands."
A paper by Miss N. Robertson on " Experiments in Apparent
Clairvoyance," was read by Mr. Myers.
The 70th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
January 25th, at 4 p.m. ; Proff.ssor Sidgwick in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers gave an address on " The Progression from
Subliminal Phenomena to Phenomena claiming to be obtained under
Spirit Control."
The 7 1st General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
March 1st., at 8.30 p.m. ; Mr. Pearsall Smith in the chair.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall read a paper on " Some Experiments in the
Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge," which will be published in
a future number of the Proceedings.
Mr. H. G. Rawson read a paper on " Experiments in Thought-
Transference," printed below.
A paper by Mr. C. Hill-Tout, on " Some Psychical Phenomena
bearing on the question of Spirit Control " was taken aa read, for
want of time.
I!
2 Henry G. Raivson.
I.
EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
By Henry G. Rawson, Barrister at Law.
The experiments which I am about to describe were carried out by
myself and a small party of intimate friends of my own, for whose
bonafides I can vouch. The accounts of each occasion were compiled
from notes taken at the time, and—with the exception of the first two
days' experiments—written out fully the same evening, and in each
case all the experiments made are recorded.
I may mention that some years ago I forwarded to the Society the
record of some experiments of mine which were printed in the Journal
S.P.R., Vol. III., pp. 147 and 182, and, subsequently, some criticisms
from my personal experiences upon a theory of Mr. Downing's, which
were printed in the Journal, Vol. III., p. 192.
Since that date I have had few opportunities of renewing my
experiments. The fact also that I found myself almost invariably less
successful in every series of experiments after the first with any agent
rather discouraged me, or dulled my interest in persevering. It may,
however, be worth mentioning that in one exceptional case, a lady
with whom I have had three series of experiments in guessing playing-
cards, the results, allowing myself 2 guesses each time, have been 7
right out of 12, 7 out of 12 (a second time), and 9 out of 18. Except
in this last instance, I have never been able to get a clear concept
(mental or visual) of any card at all after the 12th. Several cards
would persist in recurring together. I say " mental or visual," because
in my experience it has been sometimes one, sometimes the other.
'When most successful I have distinctly seemed to see the card.
N.B.—I always shut my eyes when guessing.
I may mention that the ladies who took part in the experiments
which I am about to describe were quite clear that the interposition
of a solid or opaque body (such as a screen) between them, or the
shutting of her eyes by the percipient, increased the difficulty, and
some unsuccessful experiments I remember apparently resulted from
one or other of these causes. There were, however, many cases, e.g.,
those witnessed by " Z.," where in spite of one or other of these
impediments the experiment was successful.
Experiments in Thought-transference. 3
,
I have been anxious to prosecute the experiments in this direction,
but opportunity has been wanting.
If, as some maintain, thought moves by way of undulations (or
.vibrations) in some medium more subtle than ether which can
permeate to the brain, the interposition of an obstacle may interfere
with those undulations. The result of my experiments when an
obstacle has been interposed shows that it does not arrest them
entirely, and at the same time proves, to my satisfaction at any rate,
that the success of the experiments cannot be attributed to collusion.
It may also be worth mentioning that after an hour or less of
experiments, my friends frequently complained of headache, and for
this reason, partly, our seances were discontinued after the series
now recorded.
November 24th, 1894.—The first evening was occupied with
experiments in the transference of diagrams, Mrs. L. and Mrs. B.,
(who are sisters) being the operators, and myself the only other
person present.
The positions on that occasion were throughout as follows :—Mrs.
L. sat on a low chair by the fire, drawing in her lap ; Mrs. B. sat
some distance off at a table in the middle of the room, with her back
to Mrs. L. ; and I stood almost between them with my back to the
fire, looking occasionally over Mrs. B.'s shoulder. To the best of my
recollection, I never saw Mrs. L.'s drawings until they were complete
and handed up for comparison.
From the sitters' positions, it was impossible that they could look
over one another, and as one was sitting throughout with her back to
the other, some eight feet distant, no collusion was possible. In one
case only, that of the fern-palms (No. 6, see p. 5), was anything
said except, " Oh ! I know what she is thinking of," or words to
that effect, which the percipient exclaimed on two or three occasions
almost immediately the agent began drawing, and at once commenced
her own sketch. All the diagrams drawn by both agent and
percipient are reproduced below, those of the agent being marked O.,
and those of the percipient, R. In the first three, Mrs. B. was agent,
and in the last three, Mrs. L. No. 2 (the triangle) was the only one
suggested by me, and also the only instance in which there was a
failure. In this case alone some additions were made subsequently
to the percipient's drawing by myself, showing how a kind of
triangle was to be seen in the figure of the cat. At that time I had
not thought of reproducing the record. The agent then made some
additions to her sketch, but in the reproductions which accompany
this paper, both diagrams are given as originally drawn. The other
diagrams were chosen by the agent in every case without communi
cation with any one and were drawn in the positions I have indicated.
B 2
Experiments in Thought-transference. 5
November 29<A, 1894.—Present, Mr. and Mrs. L. and myself.
Experiments with playing-cards, a complete pack being used. At first
the card was selected by Mrs. L., but after the first two or three
experiments I suggested that it should be obtained by cutting the
pack, the card thus coming to the bottom being the one to be guessed.
This in the first place makes collusion by pre-arrangement more
difficult, and also renders less probable a complication I have noticed
elsewhere, arising, I presume, from the apparent -difficulty of concen
trating the thoughts on one card when the agent has just seen and
rejected others. A curious phenomenon resulted from this on two
occasions (previously recorded, see Journal S.P.R., Vol. III., p. 148)
viz., that I guessed a card which the agent had for a moment intended
to choose and then changed her mind. In neither case did the card
she actually selected present itself to my " mind's eye " at all.
The plan we adopted on the present occasion was, if the first
guess was wrong, for the agent to say " No," or " Wrong." I found,
however, that the tone in which this was said might sometimes convey
an impression that the guess was nearly correct, or otherwise, so I
usually adopted the course of seeing the card myself and giving alone
the answer "No " ("Wrong "), or " Yes " ("Right "). It will be noticed
that in the large majority of instances, when Mrs. L., Mrs. B., or
Mr. L. was the percipient, the first guess was correct.
c Henry G. Rawson.
As an almost invariable rule when either Mrs. B. or Mrs. L. was
the percipient, I was the only person in the room who knew the right
card except the agent, the reason for my looking at it being that
which I have stated. In the few cases when I was percipient, I
believe that it was shown to both Mrs. L. and Mrs. B.
The following is the complete record of the experiments made.
(1) Mrs. L. agent; Mr. Rawson percipient.
Card drawn. Card guessed.
9 of Diamonds 9 of Clubs
I here explained to them that I allowed two " guesses " usually, if
not correct the first time.
3 of Spades Queen of Spades, 3 of Spades
Ace of Diamonds Knave of Diamonds, 7 of
Diamonds
(2) Mrs. L. agent ; Mr. L. percipient.
Card drawn. Card guessed.
8 of Diamonds 8 of Diamonds
10 of Spades 10 of Spades
6 of Hearts 6 of Hearts
Queen of Clubs Knave of Clubs, 4 of
Clubs
4 of Diamonds 4 of Diamonds
10 of Spades 10 of Spades
Mr. L.'s plan was to say first "you are thinking of a "
(mentioning a suit) ; then in about 10 seconds he would give the
number. I was told by him and Mrs. L. that they had frequently
tried the experiment before, and that he was almost invariably right.
He said, however, that it tired him, and he did not take part in many
of our seances.
December 5th, 1894.—Present, Mr. and Mrs. L., Mrs. B., Miss B.
(a sister of the other two ladies), and myself.
Experiments with playing cards ; conditions the same as on previous
evening. All experiments are recorded below.
(1) Mrs. L. agent ; (she also showed the card to me and Miss B.,
who sat beside her), Mr. L. percipient.
Card drawn. Card guessed.
King of Spades King of Spades
9 of Hearts (Mr. L. said " I know the
suit,") 2 of Hearts, 10 of
Diamonds
2 of Clubs Knave of Clubs, 7 of Clubs
7 of Diamonds King of Diamonds, 8 of
Diamonds
4 of Spades King of Spades
Experiments in Thought-transference. 7
(2) Mrs. L. agent, Mrs. B. percipient.
Card drawn. Card guessed.
5 of Hearts 4 of Hearts
Ace of Hearts Ace of Diamonds
3 of Diamonds 3 of Diamonds
5 of Spades 5 of Spades
2 of Clubs 2 of Clubs
Ace of Clubs Ace of Clubs
Note.—Mrs. B. declined on this occasion to guess a second time,
saying that she always guessed at once if at all. In the second ex
periment, she said, " It is either Ace of Hearts or Ace of Diamonds."
Now I had been shown the card, which was Ace of Hearts. I
said, " Wait a little and see which it is." After 5 seconds she said,
" Ace of Diamonds." " Right," said Mrs. L. I then pointed out that
it was Ace of Hearts. "Oh," she said, "I thought it was Ace of
Diamonds." The next four were right at the first guess. Mrs. B. did
not guess the suit first, like Mr. L.
(3) Mrs. L. agent, Mr. Rawson percipient.
Card drawn. Card guessed.
9 of Diamonds 3 of Diamonds, 7 of Hearts
10 of Diamonds 10 of Diamonds
5 of Clubs 4 of Hearts, 4 of Diamonds
9 of Clubs King of Clubs, Ace of Clubs
(4) Mrs. B. agent, choosing and holding the card, Mrs. L. also
knowing the card and being no doubt also an agent, Mr. Rawson
percipient.
Card drawn. Card guested.
9 of Spades 3 of Spades
King of Diamonds King of Diamonds
8 of Spades 9 of Hearts
3 of Clubs 4 of Clubs
King of Hearts Queen of Hearts, King of Hearts
4 of Diamonds 10 of Diamonds
5 of Spades 2 of Spades, 4 of Spades
4 of Hearts 6 of Hearts, 5 of Hearts
I found that I could not prevent Mrs. L. or Mrs. B. from uncon
sciously giving me some indication after the first guess, by tone of
voice or otherwise, as to its correctness, so I made no second guess in
most of these cases.
We next tried experiments in silently " willing " one of the party
to perform certain actions.
In no case was there contact. With one exception noted (No. 3) I
was the only person, except the percipient, who did not remain seated.
8 Henry G. Rawson.
In order to see better what happened I occasionally walked from place
to place. The percipient could in every case, except No. 4, see every
one in the room (all were requested to concentrate their thoughts on
the thing to be done), but no indication could well have been given by
anyone without my noticing it, as I could see where the percipient
looked. I never noticed the slightest attempt to give any indication
without noting it. Any such indication is recorded below.
(No. 1.) Mrs. L. was sent out of the drawing-room. I suggested and
Mrs. B. agreed, and we then informed Miss B. and Mr. L. of our
decision, that Mrs. L. should take up the hearth-brush and sweep
the hearth. At my suggestion Mrs. B. sat beside me on a sofa on the
further side of the room from the door and adjoining the fire-place
where we had been sitting during previous experiments. Mr. L. and
Miss B. sat on a sofa between the door and the fire-place. Mrs. L.
was then called into the room. In this and all similar cases I
summoned the percipient, and found her in the dining-room some
distance away and quite out of hearing. After walking into the
room she stood still for half a minute, then said : " I know," and
walked to the fire and took up the brush. Some 30 seconds later
she swept the hearth.
(No. 2.) Miss B. went out and the other three of us agreed, at my
suggestion, (Mr. L. not knowing what was arranged) that she should
ring the bell on left of fire-place. On this occasion I took notes
and did not attempt to will. I may note here that our experiments
seemed to shew that neither Mr. L. nor I could transfer our thoughts
to any of the ladies, either in these or card experiments, and that
Mrs. B. took the leading part in " willing." She had no idea of her
power till some experiments ten days previously, which I did not record.
Miss B. did as willed in about a minute.
(No. 3.) Mrs. L. out; the other four agreed that she should kneel
on a certain chair (which was first moved out of position and then
replaced by me before she came in, lest its altered position should
attract her attention) and take up a book near it on a table.
After coming into the room, and standing still for a minute or less,
Mrs. L. said : " You want me to go down on my knees, but I won't."
As she continued to stand still for 2 or 3 minutes, Mrs. B., who had
been sitting beside me on the sofa, got up and stood beside, but not
touching her. In 15 seconds Mrs. L. moved towards the right chair,
sat on it, and took up the right book. Mrs. B. said, once or twice :
" You must do it," in an authoritative voice. I have noticed the same
tone sometimes from Mrs. L. to Mr. L. in card-reading—as if she
considered it a question of will, or, at any rate, of earnest persuasion.
(No. 4.) Mrs. L. was sent into the dining-room, where I had
noticed some walnuts, with other dessert dishes, on a what-not (second
Experiments in Thought-transference. Jr
storey, not top). I suggested she should be willed to crack one. It
was arranged that I alone should follow her to the dining-room, the
others remaining in the drawing-room, tell her we had settled some
thing, and watch her. The only words that passed were her question :
"Are you willing also?" and my reply: "I am thinking of the thing."
In less than 30 seconds she said : " Have I to crack a nut V There
were no nuts but walnuts there.
I made notes of these experiments at the time, read them over, and
all those present initialled them as correct. The above account, written
later the same evening, is a faithful amplification of the notes.
December 12th, 1894. Present : Mrs. L., Mrs. B., and myself.
We tried first experiments with drawings, all of which are repro
duced below. The annexed plan shows the relative positions of the
sitters :—
Sketch of Room.
Door
fireplace
Mrs. L.
x
Mrs. B.
H.G.R.
Mrs, L. on chair facing towards piano, writing on lap.
back to Mrs. L., 11 feet distant. H.G.R. facing Mrs. L.
Mrs. B. sitting at table.
The originals of Nob. 1, 2 and 3 were drawn by Mrs. L. ; in some
cases Mrs. B. had finished her thought copy almost as soon as Mrs. L.
The originals of Nos. 4, 5 and 6 were drawn by Mrs. B., in each
case at my suggestion.
I have recorded all that was said.
(No. 1) Shortly after Mrs. L. began diawing this (a nose) Mrs. B.
said, " I can think of nothing ; I can only hold my nose." At that
time I did not know what Mrs. L. was drawing. In some 10 seconds
Mrs. B. began drawing, and was finished within 15 seconds of Mrs. L.
Experiments in Thought-transference. 11
(No. 2) This was more like a foot at first, but while waiting for
Mrs. L. to begin a fresh subject Mrs. B. began shading the boot—
without thinking—and this accentuates the dissimilarity. This and
the case mentioned on November 24th, are the only instances in which
the drawing was touched after the original had been seen.
(No. 4) Mrs. L. said almost at once—after, say, 10 seconds—"Now
I know what it is ; I am sure ; I can see it."
(No. 5) Mrs. L. began drawing within 10 to 15 seconds, and pre
sently said, " I am drawing something I can see." The clock was in
front of her on the mantelpiece.
(No. 6) Mrs. L. said " I know what it is."
Afterwards Mrs. B. told me that she thought of putting a
label on the champagne bottle she drew (No. 4).
We then had some " willing " experiments. In each case I suggested
what should be done. First Mrs. L. went out ; the others remained
seated in each experiment. We settled she should walk to a bracket
glass at the side of the room, look into it, and sniooth her hair.
After standing in the middle of the room some 30 seconds she
turned left half face, walked to the glass, pausing once or twice on the
way, looked at herself, caught sight of me in the glasss and made a
bow to me. Experiment not further proceeded with.
Next Mrs. B. went out. We decided she should walk to the end of
the room, take a flower-pot off its stand and put it on the floor.
She walked straight up to the pot and, after 10 seconds, said, " Do
you want me to draw the blind up ?" I said " No, think again." In
about 30 seconds she said, suiting the action to the word, " Do you
want me to put the pot on the floor 1 "
Next Mrs. B. went out. We decided she should sit down at the
piano and play. She came straight in, sat down at the piano and said, " I
don't knowanything to play." (N.B.—She plays rather well by memory.)
I said " Wait a little." In 5 seconds she struck three or four discor
12 Henry 0. Rawson.
dant notes with a laugh. It would have been interesting to will her to
play something particular. A final experiment to make her do some
thing in another room failed altogether ; she said she could think of
nothing.
The following are some experiments with cards which came next.
(1) Mrs. L. agent, Mr. L. percipient.
Card drawn. Card guessed.
Queen of Clubs 9 of Clubs, 5 of Clubs
King of Clubs 10 of Clubs, 10 of Spades
(2) Mrs. L. agent, Mrs. B. percipient.
Card drawn.
5 of Hearts
8 of Spades
10 of Clubs
Knave of Diamonds
5 of Spades
Card guessed.
7 of Hearts, Ace of Diamonds
8 of Spades
9 of Clubs, 10 of Clubs
Knave of Diamonds
7 of Spades, 5 of Spades
(3) Mrs. B. agent, Mrs.
Card drawn.
2 of Clubs
Queen of Hearts
5 of Diamonds
Ace of Diamonds
Ace of Hearts
Ace of Clubs
King of Spades
L. percipient.
Card guessed.
2 of Diamonds, 2 of Clubs
Queen of Hearts
9 of Diamonds, " 4, no, 5 of Dia
monds." (I asked Mrs. L. why
she changed. " Because I saw
the 5th pip as I spoke.")
Ace of Diamonds
Ace of Hearts
Ace of Clubs. (These three Mrs.
B. selected to see if it would
confuse the percipient. For all
the others the pack was cut as
usual, and the bottom card
taken.)
King of Diamonds, King of Spades
December 13th, 1894.—I arranged to try some experiments this
afternoon with Mrs. L. and Mrs. B., in the presence of a friend,
of mine, a clergyman, whom I will call Z., aged about 70. I
was not surprised that in the presence of a stranger we did not have
anything like the success of previous experiments, but to my great
satisfaction my friend, who was an entire sceptic, guessed or " saw "
three cards right himself.
Experiments in Thought-transference. 13
We were sitting thus :—
Door
Fireplace
Mrs. L.
x
x Mr. R.
x Mrs. B.
x
Z.
Mrs. L. was guessing ; I cut the cards in each case and handed them
to Mrs. B. The first guess was :
10 of Hearts (right)
the second :
5 of Diamonds (right) ;
when Z., who had been sitting quiet, exclaimed, " Positively, I thought
of the 5 of Diamonds ! " 'We then asked him to try. He shut his eyes
and we all three saw the agreed card and " willed." He made two
single guesses :
Card drawn. Card guessed.
5 of Diamonds Queen of Diamonds.
7 of Clubs -9 of Spades.
The second being wide of the mark, we returned to Mrs. L. alone
guessing, Mrs. B. holding the card ; but Z. continued with closed eyes
to see what he might see.
Mrs. L. made the following guesses :—
Card drawn. Card guessed.
(1 ) Queen of Hearts King of Clubs, King of Hearts.
(2) 7 of Clubs 9 of Clubs.
(3) 3 of Spades 3 of Diamonds, 3 of Clubs.
(4) 5 of Clubs 4 of Clubs, 4 of Diamonds.
(5) 7 of Hearts 7 of Hearts.
(6) Knave of ClubB King of Clubs.
14 Henry 0. Rawsoii.
Meanwhile, it having been agreed that Z. should write down
anything he saw, for
(2) He wrote, " 7 of Hearts."
(3) As soon as Mrs. L. said " 3 of Clubs " (her second guess), I
said " No, 3 of Spades." To my astonishment, Z. broke out, in evident
excitement, " Oh, why did you tell t I'll take my oath I saw the 3 of
Spades ! I wish I had had time to write it down ! " I should say it is
extremely improbable that my friend has " affirmed with an oath " for
many a long year. I know him intimately, and never heard him use
" forcible language " before! All the more did it impress me. He
had not got over the experience, and was still wondering what it
meant when we parted at midnight, the experiment having taken place
about 6 p.m.
(4) He guessed 8 of Spades.
(5) „ Queen of Hearts.
(6) „ 9 of Clubs, Knave of Clubs
He had never seen or heard of this kind of experiment before 1 told
him of it the previous night, and started for our rendez-vous to-day quite
a sceptic.
We had three experiments first, before the above, Mrs. L. holding
the card, and Mrs. B. guessing.
Card drawn. Card guessed.
Ace of Hearts Ace of Hearts
A Spade Mrs. B. said " A Spade ; I can see
(number not recorded) no more."
King of Spades 10 of Clubs, 10 of Diamonds.
Mrs. B. evidently was nervous before a stranger.
We then tried " willing " certain actions to be performed.
Mrs. L. went out. We decided she should lightthe further one of two
candlesticks on the piano. She walked straight to the candle, and after
pausing 2 minutes or so in the middle of the room, took it up and said,
" I don't at all know what to do with it." I said, " You must think."
After another minute she said " You don't want me to light it 1" The
room was brightly lit by electricity. This, by-the-way, was the second
experiment.
In the first, she was to put the cover on to the muffin dish, by which
it lay on a tea table in the middle of the room.
She walked straight to the table, after a longish pause, perhaps 4
minutes, and said, " Do you want me to do anything to the cups 1 " I
said " No." She then walked to a corner of the room, took up a
China cup, not one of the tea-set, and said, " Am I to move this ?
I feel as if I was to move the cups." She then gave up the
experiment.
Experiments in Thought-transference. 15
Lastly we did some drawing, Mrs. L. first doing the originals. (See
reproductions below.)
In the first, (No. 1), Mrs. B., after waiting some three minutes, said
"I can't think of anything." In about 15 seconds more she called me
and said, " Look here,"—pointing to a gilt four-leaved
shamrock like this, which formed an ornament at the
corner of a picture frame in front of her, as she sat at
a table with her back to Mrs. L., who was drawing on
a book in her lap, the whole breadth of the room,
some 18 feet, behind her—"Look here, Mr. Rawson,
I was looking vacantly before me and I noticed this. It's the only
idea I have and I will draw it."
When I looked at her drawing, I was astonished to see that she had
only drawn two leaves of the shamrock, and those the two which exactly
resemble the interior of a sand-glass, which I found Mrs. L. had mean
while completed. In this case no one present knew what Mrs. L. was
drawing. This seems to me a more tuggestive result than usual.
The resemblance might have been coincidental had she drawn her
object properly, but she seems to have been most unwittingly moved to
omit two leaves and the stalk, which would have almost entirely robbed
her sketch of its most singular resemblance to Mrs. L.'s drawing.
Subject No. (2) I suggested to Mrs. L. Mrs. B. after waiting 5
minutes said she could think of nothing and gave up, but presently she
said " I thought of an eye," but for some unexplained reason (probably
nervousness of failure) she had not drawn it. She had then
seen the circle with centre (O. 2) which Mrs. L. had drawn. The
eye Mrs. B. thought of might very conceivably have resembled
the " circle with centre " which I had suggested to Mrs. L. N.B.—
This is the second time I have suggested a mathematical figure ;—on
16 Henry 0. Rawson.
the previous occasion (see first series) it was an equilateral triangle,
which I suggested to Mrs. B.,—and no result happened in either case.
These form the only two failures (if this be one) out of 15 recorded
experiments; The fact of my suggesting the subject is no absolute
impediment, as may be seen in previous experiments, e.g., the clock
and champagne bottle on December 12th, and the match-box of the
following experiment.
In this, (No. 3), Mrs. B. drew the original at my suggestion. My
suggestions on this and other similar occasions were made in a whisper
pianissimo, and I can be certain Mrs. L. could not catch what I said,
«.g., " Draw a match-box."
Now, the strange thing is that when her sketch was finished, Mrs.
L., who is absolutely incapable of a pretence, said " I don't know what
I have drawn ; it's a kind of square inside a square."
I think all will agree that hers is the more characteristic match-box
of the two ; one with the luminous strip, to the life !
This is a return to our experience of the first night, November 24th,
viz., that the idea was consciously or unconsciously reproduced (on this
occasion unconsciously, for the only time) and not the particular repre
sentation. E.g., on the first night the rings and the hands were quite
dissimilar. But on December 12th the visual and not the mental con
cept seemed sometimes to prevail, e.g, the foot which suggested a boot ;
the cylindrical paper basket which turned into a barrel. Per contra,
however, the clocks and the chairs were unlike.
I read this accompanying report of our experiments on December
13th to Z., who asked me to add that on the occasion of the drawing,
he placed a chair between Mrs. L. and Mrs. B., so that the latter
could not, if she turned round, see what Mrs. L. was drawing in her lap.
The following statement was written and signed by Z., the terms
being left entirely to himself :—
December 1ith, 1894.
" I wish to testify that to the best of my memory Mr. Rawson has
given a correct account of the circumstances in connexion with the
thought-readings at Mr. L.'s residence. It would seem to be almost
impossible, moreover, that it could have been by chance that I correctly
told the right card on three occasions out of about eight. But I must
say that I have an uneasy feeling of dislike to such sort of experiments,
and that I do not feel disposed to enter further into them ; but would
leave them to those who feel no such scruples."
It is worth remarking that the fact that Mrs. L. and Mrs. B. are
alternately agent and percipient goes counter to the theory of l' willing "
(a fortiori of hypnotism), as it is unlikely that the weaker will could in
turn control the stronger. Nor can I even accept with confidence the
view that it is necessary that the agent should concentrate on the
'
Experiment* in Thought-transference. 17
thought to be transferred, or should desire it to be guessed ; for, as
already mentioned, I have on two occasions guessed a card which
the agent had rejected in favour of another while selecting one to
concentrate her thoughts upon. This may be chance ; I must have
tried to guess at least 100 cards on different occasions, and only recall
two instances of this. For this reason, however, I usually ask the
agent not to select a card, but to cut one to the bottom of the pack,
so as to reduce the chance of her thinking of more than one card.
My view in all these experiments is that they are reducible to pure
thought-transference, though I use the terms " guessing " and " willing "
for brevity, and though, in my opinion, concentration of thought is
highly desirable, and an apparent exercise of will facilitates success—as,
when Mrs. B. has sometimes exclaimed : " You must guess it " : " You
must know what it is." The chief good of such expressions would, in
my -view, be to prevent the percipient from letting his mind wander, or
from thinking of other things, which would probably be fatal to
success,—unless for a sufficient interval he kept his mind a tabula rasa
for the transferred thought to impress itself upon.
Doubtless the difficulty of getting success befilre strangers is due
(as I have found myself as percipient) to the constant recurrence in the
percipient's mind of an anxious dread of failure, and its resultant con
sequences of suspicion on the part of the stranger as to the bona fides
of previous results.
On a date subsequent to the above experiments I tried Mrs. B.
thinking of a word which I suggested, and Mrs. L. guessing.
The first word selected was " candle." After two or three minutes
Mrs. L. said, "Is it electric light ? " I said, "Think again." In 10
seconds she said .' Is it a candle ? "
Next I suggested " theatre." After about 30 seconds she said " Is
it a play-house ? " Strange that she should use a word which would
be quite unusual in the mouth of either herself, her sister, or me. I
thought, however, that was near enough.
The experiment was then interrupted.
c
18 Dr. John Gordon Dill.
II.
DIPSOMANIA AND HYPNOTISM.
By John Gordon Dill, M.A., M.D.,
Assistant Physician to the Sussex County Hospital.
Among the many disorders of the mind, one of the most prevalent
in this country is that form of moral insanity which leads to
dipsomania, and there is none which causes such widespread misery,
or which leads oftener to crime. For in the course of his unfortunate
life, the drunkard not only becomes himself a physical and moral
wreck, and in time swells the immense army of paupers and criminals,
but he is a perpetual source of grief and disgrace to his relations and
friends, and his children inherit from him in a marked degree an
intellectual, a moral, or a nervous instability, which may hopelessly
cripple them from their earliest years, or develop later into some
neurotic disease. Now it cannot be too strongly insisted upon that
habitual drunkenness is a disease—a moral, as opposed to an
intellectual insanity,—and that no matter how real the resolution to
reform, or how intense the pangs of remorse for the past may be, it is
a positive fact that the power of resistance does not equal the
impelling force of the temptation and craving to drink. The drunkard,
in other words, is not his own master.
The English law, unfortunately, does not recognise this, and the
penalty for drunkenness serves to keep many a miserable being
in existence, by the periods of enforced abstinence between his orgies,
which he passes in prison. Nor has any system of treatment been
discovered which can be relied upon, although innumerable specifics
have been introduced from time to time, only to be discredited after
trial. Certainly the power of resistance does increase during total
abstinence, and, given the will to reform, a long period of compulsory
abstinence has often the effect of getting rid of the craving to
drink, and the patient is cured if he remain a total abstainer ; but
even thus, one glass of alcohol may be enough to restore the disease,
and cases are by no means uncommon in which, after many years of
apparent cure, the patient has felt confident of his power to drink in
moderation, and the disease has returned. In so terrible and often
hopeless a malady, the merest straw of possible salvation is naturally
grasped, and the encouraging results which hypnotism had given in
the hands of other observers led me to give it a trial.
Time alone can prove the value of any treatment, even if it
is apparently successful at the outset, and I shall therefore only record
Dipsomania and Hypnotism.
the results of the first few cases which came under my observation
some years ago, with their subsequent history as far as I have been
able to trace it.
Case L—Mrs. J. was a lady between 40 and 50 years of age, a
confirmed drunkard, who had been deprived of the care of her
children, and was subjected to more or less control. There was no
apparent wish to reform, but considerable violence and impatience of
restraint when the desire to drink was strong.
I first saw her in 1886, and about a year later determined to try
the effects of hypnotism. She was not very susceptible, and the
unconscious stage, which was not often reached during a course
extending over many weeks, was not deep, but she became very much
quieter, and the craving for drink abated for a time. It was thought
wise, however, to place her under stricter surveillance in the country,
and I have lost sight of her.
I may here mention that I have noticed with some drunkards that
the craving for drink comes on with great intensity at more or less
regular intervals, with periods of intermission, during which they may
have little or no temptation. Moreover, in the course of many cases,
this " lucid interval " appears in time to shorten, until it almost
disappears.
Case II.—A. W. was a housemaid, aged about 32, who had lost
her character and her virtue by her drunken habits.
I first saw her at " St. Monica's Home," to which, at the time, I
was Honorary Physician. She was very readily hypnotised, and
after three or four suggestions that she should dislike all forms of
alcohol and be unable to take it, she lost all desire for drink.
Eventually a situation in a gentleman's family was found for her,
which she has retained for the past six years, and she is a most valued
and trusted servant.
It is worth notice, that when she was suffering from influenza and
had been ordered port wine by another medical man who was
attending her, she resisted strenuously, and deceived her mistress by
pouring it away.
Case III.—Miss I. was a well connected woman, whose relations
had disowned her, and who had found a temporary asylum in the
Home above mentioned.
Although she really wished to be cured, I was unable to produce
the slightest effect upon her, nor were two other more experienced
hypnotists than myself, who very kindly came with me to see her,
more successful.
A curious point about this case was that the craving for drink
came on with a hallucination that she could smell brandy, and then,
nothing could stop her drinking.
c 2
20 Dr. John Gordon Dill.
Case IV.—Captain A., an officer retired from the army, had been
an inebriate for at least nine years. Mr. Hugh Wingfield, who
happened to be at Brighton, very kindly came with me to see him,
and at his first visit attempted hypnotism, and managed to render
Captain A. powerless to get up from his chair. He then arranged to
see him again the next morning, but unfortunately during the night
Captain A. developed the first symptoms of an attack of pneumonia,
which became complicated by delirium tremens. After six weeks of
a most dangerous illness I advised him to go to Cambridge, and to put
himself under Mr. Wingfield, who had most kindly offered to do all he
could for him, but apparently he had become quite insusceptible to
hypnotism. He had been a total abstainer during his convalescence,
but after leaving Cambridge he relapsed into his former habits, and
I have since heard of his death.
Case V.—Mrs. P., a lady aged about 55, had contracted habits of
intemperance during a period of great domestic anxiety. I had very
few opportunities of hypnotism, but the effect appeared to be good at
the time, and although I have seen very little of her during the past
few years, she has never, to my knowledge, caused any scandal by a
relapse, though it is quite possible that she may drink secretly.
Case VI.—Captain B., a retired officer of the navy, aged 42, had
been a drunkard for years. Although a wealthy man, he was
accustomed to leave home when he began to drink hard, and would
sometimes return covered with vermin, and without having changed
his clothes since the day he went away.
He expressed no wish to reform, and although he was treated
under my direction by a most experienced hypnotist, he was not very
deeply affected, nor was absolute unconsciousness ever reached. At
the same time he was quieter and more reasonable during the course of
hypnotism, but after a few weeks he grew tired of it, and had a
relapse shortly afterwards.
Case VII.—Mrs. A., aged 40, was the widow of a clergyman.
The discovery of her failing had been made during the life of her
husband, and for a time all forms of alcohol were kept from her, but
when his decease took place, she bribed one of the undertaker's men
to put a bottle of brandy into the coffin when it was brought into the
house, and then got drunk in the room with the corpse.
I first saw her some years later, when she had been rescued from
the lowest depth of depravity by her sister. She was treated by the
hypnotist mentioned in the last case, and was easily influenced, but
although a post-hypnotic suggestion that any alcoholic liquor would
make her violently sick was effectual for about three days, at the end
of that time it had apparently quite passed away, nor did repeated trials
lengthen the period during which it took effect. This could not be
Dipsomania and Hypnotism. 21
continued indefinitely, and she was finally sent to a retreat under thr
Act I regret to say that I have had no information about her
during the past few years.
Case VIII.—Mrs. E. was an excellent cook, but she had lost
situation after situation owing to her drunken habits.
When I first heard of her, some former friends, who believed in the
sincerity of her remorse, and trusted her'promises of amendment, having
found a place for her with a lady who knew her history, collected a
small sum of money, part of which they expended in the purchase of
some respectable clothes, which they gave her, with the balance of the
money, some three or four days before the time when she was to enter
upon her new duties. Needless to say that she had sold the clothes ami
spent the money and was hopelessly drunk when the day arrived. I
found her in a state of great destitution, in a miserable lodging with her
half starved child, and for about three weeks supplied them with the
bare necessaries of life, while I hypnotised her diligently. She was
very susceptible, and soon found, to her surprise, that she was unable to
take her share in a bottle of gin, which ,some boon companion had
offered her. She rapidly regained respectability of manner and appear
ance, and in the course of about three weeks found herself a situation
as cook, while her little daughter was admitted to an orphanage.
From that time to this—now nearly five years—she has maintained her
character as a most respectable servant, and was so highly valued by her
employers that they kept the place open for her when she was obliged
to go into hospital to be treated for a varicose ulcer of the leg.
An interesting point about the case is that the effect of the
suggestion has gradually worn off, and she is now able to take a glass
of beer at dinner, but as yet she has suffered from no temptation to
drink in excess.
Although it would be rash to base any conclusions upon the results
of so very meagre a series of cases, they serve perhaps to indicate that
there is a possibility that this mode of treatment may be successful, or
that, at any rate, until hypnotism has been tried, no case of dipsomania
should be pronounced hopeless. Doubtless in more experienced hands
better results might have been obtained, and, had we any certain means
of ensuring a susceptibility to hypnotism, there is no reason that it
should not be much more uniformly successful. I have noticed in more
than one case that the best time to make an attempt is very shortly
after a bout of drunkenness, and that the patient is less easily hypnotised
the longer he is kept sober. Possibly, therefore, it may be discovered
that some drug may have the effect of increasing susceptibility, but the
few experiments which I have had an opportunity of making in this
direction have hitherto yielded barren results. Such experiments, how
ever, might well repay the trouble they entail, for could we but discover
22 Mr. G. Theodore Green.
a certain and reliable method of dealing with dipsomania, it would be
difficult to exaggerate its beneficent results, not only in the present by-
lightening the heavy burden of human misery, but in the future by-
promoting the health and happiness of unborn generations.
[The following case, sent to us by Mr. C. Theodore Green,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. (London), of Birkenhead, will be read with
interest in connection with the above.—Editor.]
The Treatment by Suggestion, with Cure in Four Sittings, of a
Man Addicted to the Abuse of Alcohol, Bromides, and Choral.
On October 6th, 1893, a man, aged 32, came tome complaining that
for two months past he had been unable to get a night's rest without
bromides and chloral ; and also that he had an irresistible craving for
whiskey ; and that his brain was not able for his work,—that of cashier
in a very large wholesale business. His account of himself was in
coherent and vague, and he presented the restless appearance and
excited manner of a person very near dementia. He was of fair com
plexion and hair, 5 feet 10 inches in height, in good physical condition
of body, and having a cerebral development decidedly above the
average. I gathered from his conversation that in 1887 he had a
serious bout of drinking, from which he recovered.
Some few months ago he began to be worried about his work, and
then commenced taking a single glass of whiskey or beer in the even
ing. He soon found that one glass was not enough, so he had two ; in
this manner increasing his daily dose of stimulant, till the craving for
it was present all the time. He consulted some doctor, who told him
to "go to Llandudno and drink lots of stout." Well, he went to
Llandudno and drank several bottles of stout daily. But as he was
nothing bettered, but rather grew worse, from the development of
insomnia, he consulted another medical man, who gave him a prescrip
tion for "bromides and chloral." Without the nightly use of this
sedative draught, he got very little sleep, and, of course, his brain
became more and more unfitted for the accurate work required of him.
He told me he had never been hypnotised before. As he expressed
disgust for his unconquerable craving, and a belief that he could be in
fluenced by hypnotism, I agreed to try what it could do for him. I
insisted that this form of treatment would give him back his normal
strength of will, so that he would be able to conquer his unnatural
cravings. In fact, I made him understand that it was not / who was
curing him, but that I was merely shewing him how to cure himself by
the exercise of his will. So, throughout the four sittings that I gave
Case of Cure by Suggestion. 23
him, I suggested that his will was growing stronger, and that all hi*
functions were coming more and more under his own control. I also
ridiculed the idea that the person hypnotised need give up or lose all
his will power to that of the operator.
On October 6th, he fell into a hypnotic slumber in seven minutes by
gazing at. a diamond. I then made suggestions that he would sleep
well, and not awake at 2 a.m. as usual, that alcohol in all forms would
taste vile, and if swallowed would be vomited. The next day he
telephoned saying that he had slept right on to breakfast time—the
best sleep he had had for two months ; and that he had had a glass of
whiskey, but had difficulty in keeping it down.
He now went away into North Wales with some friends, and I did
not see him for a fortnight. Shortly before he returned he wrote me
a long and very rambling letter, that made me fear still more for his
sanity. He said that he slept very well for four or five nights after
being hypnotised, but that since then he had been getting worse in
every way. I advised his speedy return.
So, on October 22nd, I hypnotised him again. This time the sleep
was more profound, and he seemed unable to answer my questions till
I suggested that he could do so quite easily. I repeated the former
suggestions, and made use of ordinary mesmeric " passes," which I
regard as a most useful form of suggestion.
On October 24th, hypnosis was produced by my gazing into his eyes
for two minutes. On this occasion he seemed rather less excitable. He
said he had been sleeping well except for a bilious attack that occurred
during the night of the 22nd. He also said that he had taken no more
sedative draughts, and that he had very little desire for alcohol.
On October 28th, he said he slept quite well each night, and had no
desire either for alcohol or sedatives, and that his brain was clear. As
a test of the latter, he procured one of his cash books on the 27th, and
worked at it for two hours, and was delighted to find that he could
work as well as ever. His manner is totally changed. He is restful,
and acts and speaks as a man should when in perfect possession of his
faculties. I now hypnotised him for the last time, and repeated the
former suggestions.
Also I found I could inhibit all the special senses. I also gave him
a crystal, and bade him see a picture of his dining-room, which I had
not seen. He described it, and the persons he saw moving about in it.
But I was unable to make him see the picture of a room he had never
seen, but of which I was thinking intently at the time.
Up to date (March, 1894) there has been no relapse. Time only
can shew whether this cure be permanent ; but I think I am safe in
assuming that any recurrence of the above symptoms will be as easily
abolished by hypnotism as they were before.
24 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
III.
THE EXPERIENCES OF W. STAINTON MOSES.—IL
By Frederic W. H. Myers.
In a former article on the experiences of Mr. Stainton Moses,
which appeared in Part XXV., Vol. IX. of these Proceedings, two
main lines were pursued. In the first place I offered a general
summary of Mr. Moses' life and character, and of the nature of the
evidence under review, with a discussion as to the trustworthiness or
otherwise of the printed and written matter which we have to treat.
In the second place, I gave extracts from contemporary records, by
himself and others, of the physical phenomena obtained during his
first year of investigation, 1873-4 ; including incidentally many points
bearing on identity of the communicating intelligences. Many subjects
still remain for discussion ; and it will be convenient to indicate at
once the order in which they will here be taken.
A.—In the first place some further extracts will be given from the
notes of the remaining seances (1874-1880), of which any record
has been kept. In Mr. Moses' own note-books this record, though
becoming irregular as he got tired of recording so often very similar
phenomena, is continued till August, 1875. Mrs. Speer's notes
continue at intervals until 1880, and there are occasional notes by Dr.
Speer during these later years. Two other occasional members of the
circle, Miss Birkett (now deceased) and Mrs. Garratt (known to me),
also took some notes, which Mrs. Garratt has kindly sent to me. I find
them fully concordant with the other series ; and I have printed some
of Miss Birkett's, where points of interest are introduced. On the
whole, however, I have given but brief notices of these later seances.
Mr. Charlton Speer had already summarized their main features, in
his letter quoted in my former paper ; and no doubt can now be felt
that the impression of what occurred at these meetings was sub
stantially the same in the minds of all the persons present. Nor shall
I return to the question as to the genuinely supernormal character
of the phenomena, which has been sufficiently discussed in my former
paper.
That they were not produced fraudulently by Dr. Speer or other
sitters I regard as proved both by moral considerations and by the fact
that they are constantly reported as occurring when Mr. Moses was
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 25
alone. That Mr. Moses should have himself fraudulently produced
them I regard as both morally and physically incredible. That he
should have prepared and produced them in a state of trance I regard
both as physically incredible and also as entirely inconsistent with the
tenor both of his own reports and of those of his friends. I therefore
regard the reported phenomena as having actually occurred in a
genuinely supernormal manner.
What is still needed, I believe, in order to produce a like conviction
in scientific minds in general, is not so much any further argument as
to Mr. Moses, as the occurrence of like incidents afresh in the presence
of other mediums. Readers of the S.P.R. Journal are aware that a
group of observers have been investigating the phenomena which occur
in the presence of Eusapia Paladino—phenomena which appear to
resemble those of Mr. Moses in many points ;—and we hope before long
to publish a full statement of Eusapia's case in these Proceedings.
Should her phenomena find acceptance, the independent corroboration
thus furnished to Mr. Moses' case will be very important.
B.—Next to the description of Mr. Moses' physical phenomena
must come the quite equally important task of analysing the automatic
writing, of which, as already stated, 24 books remain. The contents
of these books consist partly of messages tending to prove the identity
of communicating spirits ; partly of discussions or explanations of the
physical phenomena ; and partly of religious and moral disquisition.
After describing, in Mr. Moses' own words, the general method and
character of this writing, it will be well to consider those passages
which bear upon the identity of the communicating intelligences.
C.—These may be fitly introduced by a paper entitled " The
Identity of Spirit," composed by Mr. Moses in his last years, but not
published by him. In this paper about thirty spirits are specified, and,
taking these first, I shall add to Mr. Moses' own account such further
corroborative particulars as collation of other passages in his writings,
or independent enquiry, may have supplied.
D.—I shall next deal with certain other communicating spirits
whose messages appear to carry evidence of identity ; representing
mainly persons lately deceased, and desirous of communicating for
private reasons.
E.—Having thus briefly described the alleged communicating
intelligences, I shall hope in a future paper to arrange and summarise
what they have to say as to the accompanying phenomena. This task
is not easy ; since these so-called explanations, although, as I hope to
show, really consistent and conceivable, are given in a scattered and
unscientific form ; while they cannot, of course, be regarded as in
themselves authoritative. There is, however, much interesting
26 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
matter of Mr. Moses' own, touching his own subjective impressions
and phenomena occurring to him in solitude, which will best be given
in that connection.
F.—There will still remain a task which, in Mr. Moses' own eyes,
was the most important in the whole field. The main object of the
manifestations, as was again and again asserted by his " guides," was
a moral and religious one. Certain teaching of high importance was
to be given ; and the marvels were to be regarded merely as a method
of ensuring that due attention should be paid to a message which
came with such credentials. Many of these ethical communications
have been printed in Spirit Teachings, and I do not propose to
reproduce them. Others may perhaps hereafter be printed in a
second volume of Spirit Teachings. For myself, at some future time it
may be well to give briefly the gist or spirit of these communications,
comparing them with such deductions as may fairly be made from the
principle of telepathy,— our main guide, at present, in any speculations
of this type.
I now take up the series of Mr. Moses' notes about November 1873,
where my former quotations ceased.
Extracts from Mr. Moses' Note-Books.
December 5th.—Douglas House. Mr. Percival, Dr. and Mrs. Speer,
and myself.—A wonderful demonstration of knocks, at least four
distinct knocks occurring simultaneously, and keeping on for some
minutes. Little Pauline came and knocked close by Dr. Speer ; with
her was a clear drumming on the table, a dull sound apparently
made on the cloth which covered the table, and a loud, clear
knocking on the lower part of the table. At the same time a con
tinuous sound was being made on the floor near my chair, and a
creaking on the chair itself. These sounds continued ceaselessly for a
considerable time—I should say nearly half-an-hour, at any rate for
more than fifteen minutes. It was a most singular noise that the
combined knockings made. The room seemed to be full of intelligences
manifesting their presence. In the midst of it came Grocyn with his
musical sound ; the same as ever, but feebler. He did not play much.
Copious scent fell from the ceiling, accompanied by a sort of whistle,
which we have noticed before in connexion with this manifestation.
Imperator controlled, and spoke at length on religious questions. In
answer to questions from Mr. P., he affirmed the doctrine of re-incar
nation, although carefully guarding his opinion. He answered a
question a3 to the time when a soul took possession of the body by
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 27
saying that there were cases in which the soul had lived before. I am
not able to record what took place exactly, but the doctrine was
affirmed. I wait to question more clearly through writing.
December %th.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self alone.—Raps and slight
sound of Grocyn gave place to a control by Imperator, who modified a
good deal what had been supposed to have been said on the previous
evening. He explained that he had not stated the re-incarnation
theory save as another chance for souls who had sunk so low as
practically to lose identity. They were incarnated again, and so had
means of progress. He stated that the control had been bad, and
that much that had been said was not reliable. The control gave
place to one by the Bishop [Wilberforce], who spoke for the first time
as regards his identity. His voice was as different as possible from
Imperator's, and the effect was very startling. The control lasted far
beyond the breaking up of the seance. I was clairvoyant, and saw the
Bishop, Catharine, and Grocyn. At Imperator's request Grocyn made
some of the most beautiful sounds he has yet made. Catharine also
knocked near Dr. Speer. I complained of cold and of a sensation
of darkness after seeing so much light. The control was so perfect
that I did not shake it off altogether until I had slept, which I did
heavily all through the night.
December 18th.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and self alone
in the study.—Raps commenced almost at once, a strong contrast
to the weary waiting at Mr. Crookes's. The power was evidently
strong. We had had raps and scent whilst sitting at dinner, and as
soon as we sat down both recommenced. My chair was drawn back,
and Grocyn played over and about the circle, finally coming on the
table. His sound commenced behind me, near the door, and at Dr. Speer's
request he went off into the air and made the tambourine sound over
the table. It was very pronounced. We spoke of the persistence
of Grocyn's manifestations, and Dr. S. contrasted them with those of
John Dee, who had not manifested for months. Instantly a loud crash
came on the table and John Dee manifested freely. It seemed as
though he were waiting till the direction of our minds to him enabled
him to manifest. It gave one an idea of a telegraph wire disconnected
for a time, the connexion being supplied by our thoughts. Seneca
was asked for, and replied at once with the peculiar dropping sound,
with harmonium stool and table. The room was full of light, and
Grocyn wrote in his own writing on a piece of marked paper put under
the table. It was just like his writing through my hand. " I am
here.—W. Grocyn."
I have omitted to say that the table was moved and put
straight. We had altered its position at starting. Grocyn seemed
28 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
to be the presiding spirit. He answered questions by his sounds
very beautifully.1
December 31s< (New Year's Eve).—Shanklin. Dr. and Mrs. Speer,
and self.—The house was fresh, and the manifestations were irregular,
as is frequently the case. The old house next door, in which we sat
when I was last at Shanklin, had got seasoned. This was new. We
had a great variety of raps. A spirit who used to come with a
whirring sound manifested, again, but with a grinding sound, somewhat
similar, but without the whirr. He said (W. H. S.) that he came from
Kensal, came down with me. He wished for prayer. John Dee
manifested. Grocyn very sweetly.2
January let, 1874.—Shanklin. Dr. and Mrs. S., and self.—Stormy,
blowing a gale, and raining in the evening. Day extremely fine and
bright. Many sounds. W. H. S.'s peculiar sound again. Grocyn
slightly. Catharine. Dr. S. asked her to go near him, and she said she
could not. Conditions were bad, and she could not go far from the
medium. This is frequently said. A curious little plucking sound in
mid-air, near Mrs. Speer apparently. A name spelled out, "Cecilia
Feilden," an old friend of Mrs. Speer, whose grave Dr. S. and
I had visited at Bonchurch in the morning. She said she had
heard of Dr. Eves's death from Miss Kirkland [also deceased].
She remained some time conversing, during which I kept my mind
fixed hard on Virgil, repeating portions of it and disengaging my mind
from what was going on. She said that "many spirits from long
beyond had come with her." She rapped out finally, " I must depart.
Adieu," and immediately the sounds ceased. On taking up a marked
sheet of paper which we had put down it was found to be written on,
" C. F. passed seventeen years.—Rector."
This is the third time that going to a graveyard has produced
similar results. W. H. S. came after a visit to Kensal Green. At
Garrison the din in my bed-room followed a visit to an old disused
burying-ground ; and now after a visit to Bonchurch this came. The
spirit was in earth-life a friend of Mrs. Speer's. She had seen her mother
and two sisters. Asked if any friend was lying near her at Bonchurch,
she rapped out, "Sir Robert Arbuthnot'-' [no mention of verification,
1 December 18th.—Séance in my study. Circle as usual.—At this séance
the peculiar feature consisted in the sudden and entirely unexpected return
of two intelligences merely upon the casual mention of their names, viz. ,
John Dee and Seneca. Direct spirit writing was also obtained from Wm.
Grocyn.—S.T.S.
* Shanklin, December 31st.—Mr. M. having arrived in the afternoon,we sat
again. W. H. S. appeared ; Grocyn likewise. The table was tilted over to
within four inches of the ground, and was quietly replaced. Our position at
the table was altered completely. John Dee came once, also H .—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 2!1
but Mrs. Speer writes to me in 1894, "Sir Robert Arbnthnot, a
relation of the Feilden family, is buried near to Cecilia Feilden's grave."]
I knew nothing of C. F., did not expect her, though Dr. S. had a pre
sentiment that she would come on visit. I did not expect her at all.
'We broke and resumed, and while hands were held, after much convul
sion on my part, H 's and Rector's names were written on marked
paper under the table. Dr. S. had asked for H 's signature. When
I went to bed the noise in my room was very great. It seemed as
though two persons were quarrelling with each other in opposite
corners of the room. The noise was very great, heavy poundings
being made at the same time on the floor and walls, and the l<edclothea
plucked. The noise continued all night long ; and was mast pro
nounced in the dead of the night (1 to 4 a.m.). I have frequently
noticed the power then seems most in force.
'We had cool waves of scented air during the evening. Manifes
tations did not occur so readily as usual, nor were they so powerful.1
January 2nd.—Same circle and place.—W. H. S. came again with
a slight grinding sound. Great rappings all over the room on the
table and floor, a deal of drumming, and then a spirit came who gave
the name of Henry Spratley, said he died on December 24th, at the age
of seventy-six, at Moor Cottage, Maidenhead, had been selected by
Imperator to prove identity. A letter has been sent to the vicar to
verify the fact. [Facts ultimately verified by Mr. Spratley's son.
The case will be referred to later. There seems a doubt as to the
exact age, as Registrar's list gives Henry Spratley, builder, aged 75,
died at Bridge-road, Maidenhead, Bray. Cause of death : senile decay :
pneumonia one month. December 24th, 1873.—F.W.H.M.J 'We had
masses of scent — verbena, sandalwood, rose, musk. The room
was filled with light. My old friend Artindale came—rapped
1 January 1st, 1874.—Seance. Same circle.—The characteristic wailing
sound purporting to emanate from W.H.S. was soon audible and com
municated, but feebly. Cecilia Feilden came for the first time (we had that
day stood over her grave at Bonchurch). She communicated most satis
factorily in every way, to our great surprise, as this rarely is the case upon
theirfirst visit to a mundane circle. On breaking up for a few minutes we
found upon the under surface of a piece of white paper, previously iden
tified, the following words had been written—
C.F.
passed away seventeen years.
t Rector.
On resuming the seance Grocyn appeared and manifested as usual. A
most peculiar and perfectly novel sound was heard. It purported to come
from R ; and while all hands were tightly grasped his name was
irritten on paper under the table as in the case of C. F.—S.T.S.
30 The Experiences of W. Slainton Moses.
out his name—and said be had only just awoke five days ago. He
has been dead now six months. He gave his birth-place, and said
he was happy. 'We heard him rapping on the table in the morning at
breakfast. We could not make out anything, and asked him to return
at night. He did so, with the same knock. Mentor returned for a
minute, controlled me without effort, and said that he had been allowed
to come back for a while. He said he would try and come back one
evening and show lights for us. He afterwards threw some musk in
powder on the table near Mrs. Speer. The table, a large loo table, was
tilted until it rested on the ground near Dr. Speer. He asked that it
might rest on his finger, and it did so, beating quite gently. Yet the
normal weight of the table was sufficient to have hurt him badly. I
was far away from the table and could not touch it. Yet it was
replaced in its original position quite gently. Mentor again controlled
for a moment, and said that they had written for my friend on the
paper under the table. Two pieces had been marked and put down,
one near me and the other close to Dr. Speer, separated from me by the
whole width of the table, six feet ; on that was written " T. S. A."
and " Rector." Dr. S. had requested that writing might be done near
him. Grocyn came and said good-night on his lyre, and the seance
concluded.
January 3rd, 1874.—Same circle and place.—W. H. S. came with
his grinding sounds. Grocyn played very sweetly, and the heavy
dropping sound said to be made by Seneca was repeated several times.
We enquired who made the little rolling or dropping sounds on the
table, and were informed that two spirits whom Rector had brought,
I and P , made them. I referred after to my books and
found that the promise had been given on May 10th, 1873. Rector
manifested, and we had great quantities of scent—verbena especially.
The odour was very strong indeed. After a ten minutes' break,
Mentor controlled and made some wonderful lights, or rather one
persistent light, which remained clear and visible for more than forty
minutes. I am sorry that I cannot record accurately the time, but
we entered the room shortly after 10 p.m., and the seance broke up at
11.30. The light appeared, say, ten minutes after we sat down, and
lasted till about the same time before we broke up. I therefore
allowed a wide margin when I said it lasted without going out for
forty minutes. It commenced in the corner of the room behind me.
Dr. S. noticed one as soon as we sat down, which faded at once. Then
Dr. and Mrs. S. saw another, which also faded out. The control (as
they tell me) by Mentor was at once established, and I was in a deep
trance for the remainder of the sitting. A light at once appeared near
my left hand, on or just over the table. It is described as a cylinder
of luminous substance, hard, and giving a golden light. It would be
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. SI
about four inches by three inches, and apparently circular at top and
bottom. It was draped with something that Dr. 8peer felt, and said
was coarse and rough. From the time it appeared it never once
faded from view. It grew at times stronger, and was faint at first,
gradually acquiring brilliancy and clearness. It moved round the
circle, touched all, beat on the table just as J. King's does, struck
the chandelier over our heads, hit the ceiling, and sailed slowly into
the far corner of the room, some yards from us. Its movements were
slow and stately, and the light golden and very steady. No waves
of light, apparently, but just a solid, self-luminous cake. The colour
was not that of phosphorescent light, but yellower and more golden.
Mentor spoke very freely, and said he could have kept it alive for
longer, but was afraid of hurting me. The light, he said, was fed from
my body. The next morning I felt very cold, tired, and weak, with
pain in the spine, especially at the lower part, and over the solar
plexus.1
I January 3rd.—Seance.—The peculiar grinding sound was soon hoard.
Grocyn then manifested ; other hitherto unknown sounds were also heard.
The sound as of a stone dropping on the table, and then on to the ground ,
was heard. A spirit came and gave his name as Henry Spratley, Moor
Cottage, Maidenhead. He said that he had been sent by Imperator to give
proofs of his identity, and he gave his age and date of his death. No one
in the circle had ever been to Maidenhead, or had ever seen or heard the
name before. So on the following morning I wrote on spec, to the vicar for
information (owing to absence, I may say, his answer did not reach us for a
month). No answer. Mr. M. wrote to the postmaster, but he received no
answer. Mrs. Speer then wrote : " To the occupant of Moor Cottage," and
was at once answered by the son, Henry Spratley, who corroborated every
particular given by the spirit. Another deceased (eight months) friend of
one of the circle then came and gave much information hitherto unknown to
any of us, and all of which wassubsequently verified. On closing the seance
the initials of the deceased friend, T. S. A., and Rector were found written
upon the paper always placed under the table. At this seance, and at the
preceding one, large quantities of liquid scent—verbena and musk—(the
latter in powder) were freely showered down upon us. On breaking for a
few minutes and then resuming the seance, Mentor came and exhibited a
most remarkable light, of cylindrical shape, and covered with drapery. It
moved about freely in all directions, always returning and resting upon the
edge of the table, and then advancing to its centre. It then would sail away
to different parts of the room, striking the gaseliers in its ascent, and then
(by request) striking the ceiling as far distant from the circle as it was
possible to do so. By request again it placed itself, surrounded by its
drapery, in my outstretched palm. I could distinctly pinch the drapery. It
remained visible for upwards of forty minutes, and was a hitherto unex
ampled manifestation.—S.T.S. [This memorandum, made when the infor
mation as to Mr. Spratley had been already received, seems to confuse
together the phenomena of January 2nd and 3rd].
32 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
January 4th.—Séance as before.—Raps at once. A little piece of
wood brought from Mrs. Speer's room, into which I had never been.
Scent thrown into Dr. Speer's eye, causing pain for some time. Great
masses of floating light filled the room, visible to Dr. S., though he
usually does not see the light. A tap came under Mrs. Speer's hands,
and the name " George Eves " was rapped out. He said he was her
brother, had manifested at the Holmeses', and through me at Mrs.
Gregory's. Another sound followed, and "Augustus Eves " rapped out
his name, affirmed his identity, and said he had manifested at the
Holmeses'. He said Imperator had allowed him to come. Asked who
Imperator was, he said, "Prophet of the coming Truth"—an expression
characteristic of him, Mrs. Speer says. Asked further for the name,
no response was given. Other raps then came, and " Emma " was
rapped out—Mrs. Speer's sister. She gave her assurance, and the raps
then changed to Mrs. Speer's father's. " God protect and guard you,
dear Marie." Then Mrs. S.'s brother came back : "We have been
allowed to return, and give proof to convince. Imperator allowed
us." Grocyn struck up a lively note, called for alphabet, and spelt out
by his sounds, " Cease, and be thankful. Great and wise spirits have
made effort to convince you." 1
All the evidence now is on the identity question. We had not
thought of or expected Mrs. Speer's relatives.
January 5lh (following evening).—Same place and circle.—Raps.
Scent. Table tilted as before described, and rested on the floor, and
beat on Dr. Speer's finger quite gently. I stood up and put my arm
over the table as it rested on the floor, and found it was actually fixed,
in that position as shown.
The table must weigh, I should say, upwards of a hundredweight,
yet it rested on the finger quite gently. Once, however, I had asked
that the spirit would rap on the floor, and a smart blow was given.
1 Sunday, January 4th.—Seance. Same conditions.—Masses of floating
amorphous light were almost at once seen, and an object brought through
the locked doors from our bed-room above. Liquid scent again freely thrown
on the table. Raps were then heard, and Dr. Eves, Emma Eves, and
George Eves came and communicated in succession.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 33
Dr. S. had not heard me, and he felt the weight on his finger rather
severely. At request the table was very gently levitated to the
height of more than a foot from the floor. It settled down quite
calmly.
All this time I had seen a veiled figure standing by Dr. 8. Mrs.
S. could see the light, but could not distinguish the figure. It did not
seem to move, and was apparently outside the circle, near the
window curtains. It did not move. Presently distinctive raps came
on the table, and " Charles Louis Napoleon Bonaparte, I salute you,"
was rapped out. Dr. S. questioned the spirit in French, and answer*
were returned correctly. A curious instance of this was as follows :
Dr. S. intended to ask the name of Napoleon's mother, but by mistake
asked for the wife's name. This was given, a response not to the
mental intent, but to the spoken question. After some other unimpor
tant questions, I asked for something unknown to any of us, and the
date of his birth, April 20th, 1808, was given. This we have verified
and found correct. Dr. S. asked for some direct writing on one of the
two marked papers, and assent was given, "J'ecrirai. Taisez-vous."
Mentor controlled, and said that it was really the spirit of Napoleon,
late Emperor of the French. They would write on the paper near
Dr. Speer's foot, that being nearest to where the figure had been
standing. After his control passed I was, as is frequently the case,
clairvoyant, and described the face of the Emperor, his waxed imperial
and moustache, his impassive marble face, and wound up by saying ho
was a " regular Mephistopheles." The form was just in the same place,
and apparently could not come within the circle. Mentor was at my
right hand, and rapped clearly at request with his double knock. All
this time our hands were joined, and remained so until the seance
closed, and we found on the paper close by Dr. Speer's foot writing of
which I append afacsimile.
This is a good case of evidence from four sources :—
1. Clairvoyant Vision.
2. Raps through table.
3. Confirmation by Mentor.
4. Direct Writing.
I have omitted to say that tbe spirit, being asked why he came,
p
34 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
said that he was invited by Imperator, a characteristic expression, as
was the "I salute you." 1
January l7th, 1874.—Douglas House.—In future I shall only
record noticeable points. The usual features which mark every sitting
will not be recorded at length. The point to-night was the levitation
of the table. It darted up several times into the air to the height of
two feet or more. The movement was sudden, and it settled down
again quite gently. I was raised in my chair from the ground twice.
The chair was an inch or two only from the ground. A chair behind
me was lifted and placed on my chair, leaning from it to the wall.
Sunday, January 18<A, 1874.—A long communication from Im
perator, detailing changes in the band of communicating spirits. In
the evening we sat at Douglas House. A large piece of coral was
placed very gently on the table. We did not discover it until Mrs. S.
accidentally touched it. It is the largest object we have had brought
in. It came from the hall outside. Two books from the bookcase
near were put on the table, and a small ivory tablet of Dr. Speer's
from the same place, but near to him. It was thrown gently, so as to
fall near Mrs. Speer. We were discussing this attempt to bring objects
in a different direction during a break in the sitting. As soon as the
gas was put out, a book from a closed cupboard at the corner farthest
from me, and immediately behind Dr. Speer, was brought out and
struck him on the shoulder, and fell near Mrs. S. This is the first
attempt that has been made to bring an object from behind a sitter
opposite to me. Usually the power seems to be behind me. The waves
of scent are detected by both sitters before I smell them. The objects
come over my head when brought into the room, and movements of
articles occur behind and near me. Grocyn plays behind and near me
usually, though at times he goes far away. But in this case the book
came from a closed cupboard behind Dr. Speer, struck him on the
1January 5th.—Séance.—Raps and scent almost immediately. A figure was
then seen by one of the circle standing aside of me. The heavy table moved
and tilted. Alphabet was called for, and Charles Louis Napoleon Bonaparte
was rapped out. (No one in the circle knew that his name was Charles.) I
asked him a variety of questions, of which we were ignorant, with a view to
test, and they were all subsequently ascertained to be true. I asked why he
came. " Invited," he said, " by Imperator." Mark the imperial tone—not
"ordered," but "invited." After replying to our questions, I asked if he
could write for us. He gave " J'^crirai," and then rapped out " Taisez-vous,"
i.e., silence. The ex-Emperor now became distinctly visible to the clair
voyant member of the circle, and presented a sad and dejected expression of
countenance. At the close of the seance the paper under the table had
been written upon, and the C. L. N. B. stood out in a fine, bold, flowing
hand.—S.T.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
shoulder, and fell near Mrs. Speer. He had intended to ask for some
thing to be brought from near him, as he had formed an idea that the
force was connected with the spine of the medium. His wish was
anticipated. We had abundance of scent-laden air, the coldest I ever
felt. A sensitive thermometer would have gone down several degrees.
[See on February 7th.] I never felt such cold air. The Prophet
showed his little light. It was very brilliant, and at times like two
bright buttons with a dark space between them. It evidently had
a dark back to it. Most generally it was invisible to me, though I
was not entranced. The table was levitated several times, as on the
previous night. My chair was drawn away from it.
January 21*<.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—I had
been very unwell. The physical movements were all quiet. The only
important thing was the rapping out the name " Alexander Thelliffsen,"
an old parishioner of mine at Douglas, whose deathbed I had attended.
He gave some slight particulars. I had forgotten his name, and do not
now know his Christian name.
January 24<A.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and Mr. Percival.
—We sat in the dining-room. The most marked manifestation was cold,
scent-laden air, which we had in great quantities. H. Spratley came
and rapped out, " It is true that I said." We have received confirma
tion from his son. Divers raps, and then Imperator controlled and
spoke of God and other subjects. He also answered questions as to
materialisation. The Prophet showed his little light, and when I
sneezed Dr. S. saw a light flash up suddenly on the other side (right) ;
it was a simple flash, dying out at once. At night, when I put out the
light, I noticed my hands luminous. I am still unwell.—The evening
was clear and fine, and the barometer high.
January 2oth.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—The
whole seance was occupied by a series of messages from Thomas Wilson,
Bishop of Sodor and Man, who has lately written in my book. He
gave the most minute details. He was born at Burton, in Cheshire,
December 20th, 1663 ; died March 7th, 1755, aged 91. Mother's name,
Sherlock, born at Oxton, in Cheshire ; schoolmaster, Mr Harper, of
Chester : ordained by Dr. Morton, Bishop of Kildare, to curacy of his
uncle, Dr. Sherlock. He was made Bishop of Sodor and Man in 1697,
and married Mary Patten, of Warrington, 1698. He had four
children : Mary, died aged thirteen ; Thomas, aged one year ; Alice,
aged two ; and Thomas, who survived him. All this was rapped out
in answer to questions without a particle of hesitation, and with clear
ness and precision. He said he was in the fourth sphere, went to the
Isle of Man occasionally, but knew nothing of the present Bishop.
Had been sent by Imperator, knew the Prophet, and gave his name,
but declined to give the name of the third "Vatea" until Imperator
36 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
gave it. He also gave Imperator's name. The light was very strong
in the room, and we had one shower of scent. This is the most curious
descriptive account we have had through the table, though many such
have been written out in my book. The Bishop said that the writing
in my book was in his own hand. I have sent for a letter of his, if one
can be had, and I propose to verify all the above details, if possible.
[Note added later : The handwriting is a facsimile. I obtained a
letter from the Isle of Man.]
February 1st.—I have succeeded in verifying all the above particu
lars. I can find no record of the death of his infant children.
[I have verified these facts, except names and age at death of two
children, from Stowell's Life of Wilson, published 1819. This easily
accessible work contains no specimen of handwriting. Mr Moses
showed me, in 1886, the letter in Bishop Wilson's handwriting, which
much resembled that of the automatic script. It is noticeable
that, in this case and Grocyn's, details as to historic personages, such
as are usually written automatically, are flashed or rapped out at
seances.—F.W.H. M.]
On Sunday Morning (January 25th, 1874) I had another of the
curious visions which I have experienced twice before. I was sitting
at my table in Clifton-road—time, 1 p.m. or thereabouts. I had break
fasted late, about 10.30, and had been writing since breakfast. I am
unable to say how long the vision lasted, nor am I able to fix exactly
the time of its commencement. If I may judge by the amount I had
written, it could not be long. I have no remembrance of ceasing to
write. The first thing that I remember was standing beside my body
and looking at it. I did not feel surprised, but only curious to know
how I got there. The spirit body seemed to be disengaged and to be
leading an independent existence. While I was looking I was con
scious of the presence of the Prophet, who stood beside me. He was
robed in sapphire blue, and on his head was a coronet with a very
bright star in the middle over the brow. The face was what I have
seen before—the face of an old man with a long beard and moustache,
deep-set eyes and large massive brow. He explained to me that I was
out of the body, and told me to follow him. I remember well the
oddity of my sensation when I discovered that the wall of the room
was no bar to me. We passed on our way without obstacle until I
found that we were in the midst of a very beautiful landscape. How
we got there I do not know, but I seemed to have changed almost
instantaneously the surroundings of earth for the scenery of the
spheres. A special effort, I imagine, of my guide enabled me to see
my body, and after that I resumed spirit vision to the exclusion of
bodily vision. The scenery through which I passed was like an earthly
landscape, but the air was more translucent, the water more clear and
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 37
sparkling, the trees greener and more luxuriant. I went along with
out conversation, and noted the ease with which my will carried me
along with a peculiar gliding motion. At the end of my journey we
came to a simple cottage, very like many I have seen here, and there
I found my Grandmother Stainton. She was just as I remembered her,
only clothed in a long pure robe, with a girdle of deep red. Her hair
was bound with a simple fillet, and her whole face and figure were
idealised and glorified. She attempted to address me, but my guide
motioned me away and hurried me back. From this point my memory
grows fainter and fainter, and I can recall no more until I found myself
sitting in my chair, the pen on the table by my side, and the paper on
which I had been writing before me. The ink was very dry, and I was
for a time only partly conscious of what I had seen. It all came back
by degrees. Now at night it is conceivable that I might be drowsy
or sleepy, though I know I was not on the occasion of the previous
vision. But this was midday. I certainly did not go to sleep. I had
had breakfast and nothing else two hours ago, and the vision was
a propos of nothing that was in my thoughts. It is stated by communi
cating spirits that the occurrence was real, and that my oblivion of the
latter part was caused by the necessity of hurrying me back, as the
conditions were not good.1
January 26<A.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S.—A great variety
of raps of different kinds—one quite new, a sort of roll like a drum of
a very peculiar kind. Dr. S. tried in vain to imitate it. We were
told that it was made by Theophilus. Grocyn came and played, but not
very well. The Prophet showed his light at request. The heavy,
dropping sound came, too, at Dr. Speer's request. The little dropping
sounds on the table were plain. A peculiar reflected light in the
polished mahogany of the bookcase came two or three times. It was
about the size of a hen's egg, and appeared reflected—from what source
I could not discover. My chair was drawn away from the table, and
Imperator delivered a long address.
On coming out of the trance, I saw and described the spirit as one
of commanding mien, with a short robe girt round the waist, and a
crown with a cross t^t in the centre, just as the Prophet has a star. In
his hand he held a long wand, terminating in a cross. He said nothing,
and gradually faded from view.
January 29th, 1874.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S.—As soon
as we sat down we had cool air and scent. Grocyn played, and at
request made the deep violoncello sound. The Prophet's light was very
bright indeed, and darted about all over the room. Once it came very
i Other visions of this type are reserved for a future paper.
38 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
near to Mrs. Speer's face. It never knocked or made any sound, but
darted about and was very bright. The heavy dropping sound was
made on the harmonium stool at Dr. Speer's request. Little Dicky
came back with his old creak, and controlled me in the oddest, squeaky
little voice. It is described as very peculiar. A. W. also came back
and gave her name. Just as before, her raps were tiny and delicate.
I was clairvoyant, and described my grandmother again. She had a
child with her. I also described the Prophet and Theophilus, and
several spirits who were apparently at the ceiling over the table, and
were showering down scent. As the séance was about to break up, I
saw a spirit suddenly come, and immediately John Dee's crack was
heard. At request he moderated it, and made it on the harmonium
stool and table.
Saturday, February 7th, 1874.—Dr. and Mrs. Speer, Mr. Percival,
Mr. H., and self.—Floating masses of light. Beautiful scent, like
honeysuckle. It was like the air in a country lane. Grocyn played
very loudly, imitating the clock, as usual. More scent. Air very cool,
so cold, in short, that it made all the circle shiver, except myself. It
came, as usual, from over my head A self-registering thermometer
which had been put on the table showed a deflection of 6deg. after the
seance was over. The cold was intense at times. The Prophet's little
light came, and we held a long conversation with him, the answers
being given in flashes. It was a very pretty manifestation, the light
being turned in each case to the questioner. A curious muffled whisper
came between me and Mrs. Speer, and Mr. H. thought it was a voice
trying to speak. We extemporised a tube, and some muffled
whispering sounds were made, but it did not come to much.
The tube was taken up and thrown down by Dr. Speer. A loud noise
on the table by Mr. P. was made by the fall of a round stone which
had been brought from the study at his back. He had just remarked
that he had never witnessed a clear case of the passage of matter
through matter. A heavy ornament (statuette) from the mantelpiece
behind me was placed on my head, and then very quietly on the
opposite side of the table. Continual scented air was blown about.
Imperator controlled, and spoke for an hour on the Nature of God. I
do not record what he said, as I find a good deal of it repeated in my
book.
February 8th, 1874.—Same circle on the following night.—Scent
again, with very cold air, which made all shiver. The wind again came
from over my head. An ornament—a china flower vase—was brought
from the bedroom occupied by Mr. H.—the same in which I usually
sleep. The manifestations were similar to those of the preceding night.
Mr. P. seemed to be in the centre of clouds of light, and felt the influence
very much. At night he had manifestations in his room, the bed being
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 30
violently shaken. The sounds of Grocyn and the Prophet's light and
the scent were very successful.
Tuesday, February \0lh, 1874.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—A
peculiar triple sound on the table, and then the following messages
were rapped out :—" Bertie Henry D'Oly Jones, died at Umballa,
India, December 31st, 1873, aged one year and seven months." This was
elicited by repeated questions. Alphabet was again called, and
" D apostrophe Oly " was spelt out. Again : " Edward George Nigel
Jones, died January 3rd, 1874, aged two years and nine months. After
wards we had another brother join us, January 5th, Cholmely—children
of Nigel Jones." Other questions elicited answers that Imperator had
sent them. We afterwards searched the Indian Mail, but could dis
cover no trace. At length, in looking over the Pall Mall Budyet, we
found the appended notice, which only gives initials :—
" Jones.—Bertie H. D'O., aged 1, Dec. 31st; Edward G. N\, aged
2, Jan. 3rd ; and Archie W. C, Jan. 5th, children of Mr. W. C. N.
Jones, at Umballa, India."
[Announcement verified, and see note D later as to Christian
names in full. It is not, of course, implied that the children them
selves spelt the names thus carefully, but rather Imperator, or their
mother, also lately deceased. Conversely there is a case where a well-
known name is spelt incorrectly in direct writing, and it is explained
that the famous spirit was using a clumsy intermediary. " Zachary
Gray" spelt his name "Grey" in all actual writings of his that
I have seea—F.W.H.M.]
No one of us had ever heard of the children or their parents.
Wednesday, Thursday, and Saturday, February 11th, 12lh, Wth.—I
class these seances together, as the phenomena were somewhat similar. I
am now staying at Douglas House, and we sit regularly.
The week has been marked by a remarkable development of Grocyn's
music. He has made beautiful sounds within the circle, playing chords
exquisitely, arpeggio chords at Dr. S.'s request, intervals, (fee. The
Welsh harper played in concert with him, and made some very curious
high notes. But the most remarkable sound was that of a very deep
bass string played quite out of the circle. It sounded like a big drum,
and was away behind me. It was the first time that we had such
distinct evidence of sound made away from the table. Mrs. S. remarked
of the sound that it was as loud as J. Dee's. Immediately there came
a crash on the table close to her elbow, which startled us tremendously.
He was standing near, and something—the mention of his name and
directing of our minds to him (?)—enabled him to manifest. The
Prophet showed his light and answered questions as before. Abundance
of scent and cool air were given. Vates came with a peculiar knock,
40 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
not unlike Imperator's, and attempted a control, which was not suc
cessful. Imperator controlled and spoke briefly. I have omitted to say
that I described clairvoyantly the Prophet and the Seer together—the
latter a young and very beautiful spirit, the Prophet dignified and
aged. Also Grocyn and a tall spirit by Dr. Speer whom I did not
know. There was a deal of light in the room.1
Sunday, February 15th, 1874.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—The
usual manifestations—Grocyn, scent, movement of table. The dropping
sounds were extremely clear, clearer than ever, and they went on
during the control. The Prophet's light was very clear and bright.
Imperator controlled, and spoke again of God and of His Nature ; also
as to the personal existence of spirit after death. I had imagined it
to be impersonal to a certain extent. The control was interfered
with by Dr. Speer leaving and breaking the circle. Afterwards a very
singular piece of direct writing was done in answer to Mrs. Speer's
1 Mrs. Speer's account of two of the sittings thus summarised may be
given for comparison (Light, November 26th, 1892) :—
" February 12th.—Circle met under usual conditions. Scent very abundant.
G. manifested, producing remarkable musical sounds of every description,
playing octaves, intervals, and chords by request. G.'s sounds this
evening were so deep, resembling a drum, that we remarked they were
almost as loud as the sounds Dr. Dee produced. Instantly he came, and
made a tremendous rap between me and Mr. S. M. H.'s light was then
visible, and answered questions as usual.
" February Uth.—We again met in our seance-roorn, which was soon
filled with spirit-light, large masses floating about in every direction. G.
quickly manifested, playing sweetly. We heard the music, very soft, outside
the circle ; then it sounded in the corners of the room, and came behind the
medium, floating over his head. The sounds were more beautiful than
usual—pure and sweet, and harp-like, the table not acting as a sounding-
board, as on previous occasions. Octaves, chords, and intervals were instantly
sounded by request, as on the previous evening. The spirit known to us as
the Welsh Harper also answered questions on the strings of his spirit-harp.
A fresh musical sound came, made by another spirit. Name not given. We
heard an unknown rap on the table, soft and muffled, something like
Imperator's. On asking who it was, " Vates" was given through the alpha
bet, also "Break." On returning to the room many sounds were made
around the medium. H.'s light flashed, and the medium tried to speak.
The voice was quite unlike Imperator's. The spirit tried to control the
medium three different times, but failed. Imperator then spoke, saying the
voice was new. Vates was trying to communicate, and as he wished it to
have its own peculiar identity it was more difficult . He said the spirit had
taken the name of "Vates " as they did not wish great names to be brought
before the public. H, who was an exalted spirit, would help in giving
information."—M.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 41
request on the spur of the moment for the signatures of some of the
spirits for her book. I append a fac-gimile as near as I can make it.
O&JhJ™
February 16th.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S., Mr. Percival,
Miss B., and self.—From the first the manifestations seemed to
suffer from the introduction of a new element. Grocyn's sound was
wooden and poor ; there were frequent pauses, and the only copious
manifestation was the shower of scent by Miss B. It has been so on
the two previous occasions when she has been present. There is
evidently something in her influence which does not work harmoni
ously at present. Imperator controlled very slightly, and when the
light was struck for the purpose of taking notes the control passed
away at once. It was afterwards resumed, and the old subject of
God was explained, and some questions answered. But the whole was
difficult.1
February I8lh.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—It
was late before we sat. The raps were very various and Grocyn's
sounds were very good. He had a peculiar tambourine sound, which
was very curious and quite independent of the circle or table. The
room was very full of light, and the points of light were different.
The Prophet did not show his little bright speck, but in place of it a
duller point of light, which flashed about and assumed at times the
appearance as of a column of phosphorescent smoke. It was quite
different from what we had before seen. Raps on the table and on my
chair, and quantities of scent and cold air. The scent of violets was
very pronounced ; also of verbena and another pure scent not unlike
eau-de-cologne.
1 Miss Birkett describes this sitting as follows :—
" Various scents were wafted round the room to each sitter, with strong
currents of air, after which liquid verbena was poured down on Dr. S. as if
from the rose of a watering-pot in a continuous stream, somo showers of
it extending to M. B. [herself]. A long and glow-worm-like light tilted
about for some time near Mr. Moses."
42 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
February 19<A.—Dr. and Mrs. Speer and self.—No phenomena
worth recording were shown. Grocyn played, but not well. Scent
was abundant, and the floating masses of light were visible to all.
There were three distinct musical sounds—or four, I fancy : Grocyn's
old sound, the Welsh harper, the tambourine, and a new sound,
apparently made by plucking a string. The sound made gave one the
idea of a band tuning.
February 20<A, 1874.—Dr. and Mrs. Speer and I dined with Mrs.
Gregory, to meet the Baron du Potet, the celebrated magnetist and
spiritualist. Mr. Percival was of the party. During dinner I was
conscious of a strange influence in the room, and mentioned the fact.
The Baron had previously magnetised me very strongly, and had
rendered me more than usually clairvoyant. He also recognised a
spirit in the room, but thought it was the spirit of a living person.
After dinner, when we got upstairs, I felt an uncontrollable inclination
to write, and I asked the Baron to lay his hand upon my arm. It
began to move very soon, and I fell into a deep trance. As far
as I can gather from the witnesses, the hand then wrote out, " I killed
myself to-day." This was preceded by a very rude drawing, and then
" Under steam-roller, Baker-street, medium passed," [i.e. W.S.M.] was
written. At the same time I spoke in the trance and rose and
apparently motioned something away, saying " Blood " several times.
This was repeated, and the spirit asked for prayer. Mrs. G. said a
few words of prayer, and I came out of the trance at last, feeling
very unwell. On the following day Dr. Speer and I walked down to
Baker-street and asked the policeman on duty if any accident had
occurred there. He told us that a man had been killed by the steam
roller at 9 a.m., and that he himself had helped to carry the body to
Marylebone Workhouse.
I felt the influence at night very much, and did not shake it off for
forty-eight hours. This is curious evidence of spirit action.1
Sunday, February 22nd.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—The control
was interfered with by the events of the previous day. Nothing could
be done except irregular rappings and movements of my chair. At
last we were told to join hands, and two remarkable pieces of direct
writing were given, one in hieroglyphics, which I have since been told
comes from an Egyptian spirit. I was deeply entranced.
Friday, February 27th.—Douglas House.—Grocyn and raps and
the Prophet's light. An argument as to the position of the light
upset conditions and stopped manifestations.
Saturday, February 28lh.—Dr. and Mrs. S., Mr. Percival, and self,
in dining-room.—The physical manifestations, though few, were very
1 See below, under Section B.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
good. Scent was abundant. Grocyn played, and a new spirit came—
" Rosamira, wife of Benjamin Lancaster, of Mt, Greville, Kilbura—died
January 11th, 1874." Imperator answered some questions as to the
spirit who had killed himself, and then delivered a very long and
interesting address on the Religions of the World. He pointed out
the good in each, and showed how it received its sum and crown in
Spiritualism.
[Daily Telegraph, January 15th, 1874: "On the 11th inst, at
Torquay, Rosamira, the beloved wife of Benjamin Lancaster, Esq., of
Mount Greville, Kilburn." Where not otherwise stated, messages
coming while Mr. Moses was not entranced were given by raps.
—F.W.H.M.]
March 1st, 1874.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—The usual phenomena.
In the midst of the séance, when perfectly clear of influence, I saw
Theophilus and the Prophet. They were as clear and palpable to the
eye as human beings would be in a strong light. Placing my hand
over my eyes made no difference, but turning away I could see them
no longer. This experiment I repeated several times. I also saw the
little Catherine. This is the first time I remember being so clair
voyant in a seance without being previously entranced. " Torquay "
was rapped out ; we could not understand why. Since then Mr. Per-
cival has discovered that the spirit who communicated before had died
at Torquay. This is a curious instance of unlikely communication.
March 2nd.—21, Green-street. Dr. and Mrs. S., Mr. Percival, and
self.—The Baron du Potet tried his mesmeric power on Mrs. Speer,
Mr. Percival, and myself. He sent me off very rapidly, and I was
conscious of a spirit near me, but he woke me up so soon that nothing
happened. Then Mrs. Speer was tried, and she went to sleep, but her
sensations at first were not very pleasant—afterwards they became
very much more so. Percival never went off actually.
March 1§th.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—Raps
began very quickly, and Grocyn. Sounds very good ; tambourine very
loud. Dr. S. suggested joining hands, and we did so. The table at
once began to move, and my chair was withdrawn until we were forced
to loose hands. I was put close to the door, and sat full six feet from
the table. In that position raps were made on the table and it was
moved,—the raps were loud and decisive on the table. My chair was
violently shaken and moved, and 1 raised myself so as to remove my
feet from the floor, crouching upon the seat. In that position the
chair was moved with equal facility, and loud rappings were made on
the wall, door, cupboards, harmonium, and floor. The noise was very
great. The Prophet showed his light very brightly, and it flashed about
like forked lightning. I saw the reflection in the looking-glass very
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
distinctly. We had plenty of very beautiful scent, and some of it
which was thrown into Mrs. Speer's eye caused no pain.
March 1&th.—After [Imperator] left, Chom resumed control, and
said he wished to give a test. We all joined hands, Mr. Percival
standing up and leaning over the table, so as to reach my hands. We
grasped hands, and our palms were upwards. Whilst in that position
a flood of scent (verbena) was poured into our hands. Mr. Percival's
hand was filled with more than a teaspoonful. Mrs. Speer received a
considerable quantity, and my hand and arm were thoroughly wet. The
table was drenched with scent all round. The door was locked, and
the room empty. A more complete objective test cannot be conceived.
The whole quantity of scent must have been considerably over a
tablespoonful. I believe this estimate is very considerably under
the mark. An attempt at direct writing failed, the power having been
used for the scent.1
Wednesday, March 25th.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—We had
been to lunch with Mrs. W., and the conditions were more or less
disturbed. Nothing of importance occurred, except the advent of a
new spirit, who made a peculiar detonation in mid-air about the level
of my head, and between me and Mrs. Speer. It was a quite distinct
sound. The name given was " Lottie, daughter of Sir Everard Buck-
worth,"—passed away a century ago in Jermyn-street. The power
ceased after Everard, and we broke up. In the dining-room after
wards raps came again, and the surname Buckworth was given. The
following morning a message was written through my hand to the
effect that she died December 5th, 1773, at the house of one Dr. Baker,
a friend, in Jermyn-street. She died of disease of the heart while
dancing. She had " looked in," and was gone again.
[This death is recorded in the Annual Register. It will be again
mentioned when the automatic writings are discussed.—F.W.H.M.]
April 1ith, 1874.—Dr. S. and I alone. —We resumed after an
interval, during which the Speers had been to Shanklin, where Mrs. S.
still remains, and I to Bedford. We sat on the previous evening,
without much result, except some very bright lights of the Prophet's.
To-night lights commenced again, but of a quite different character to
any we had seen before. They darted about like a comet, coming from
the side by the harmonium, or near the fireplace. They were evanescent,
1 Mrs. Speer's account (Light, December 10th, 1892) is as follows :—
' ' After Imperator had ceased speaking Chom again controlled, saying he
wished to give us a test. He told us to join hands, keeping the palms
upwards and open. While in this position a delicious scent was literally
poured on to them."
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 45
and apparently of diffuse luminosity, within which was a nucleus of
light ; not, however, visible to me. We had some ten or twelve of these,
some more brilliant than others, some visible both in the looking-glass
and in the glass of the book-case, and they were showing a trailof reflected
light on the table, when suddenly there arose from below me, apparently
under the table, or near the floor, right under my nose, a cloud of
luminous smoke, just like phosphorus. It fumed up in great clouds,
until I seemed to be on fire, and rushed from the room in a panic. I
was fairly frightened, and could not tell what was happening. I rushed
to the door and opened it, and so to the front door. My hands seemed
to be ablaze, and left their impress on the door and handles. It blazed
for awhile after I had touched it, but soon went out, and no
smell or trace remained. I have seen my own hands covered with a
lambent flame ; but nothing like this I ever saw. There seemed to be
no end of the smoke. It smelt distinctly phosphoric, but the smell
evaporated as soon as I got out of the room into the air. I was fairly
frightened, and was reminded of what I had read about a manifesta-
tion given to Mr. Peebles similar to the burning bush.
I have omitted to say that the lights were preceded by very sharp
detonations on my chair, so that we could watch for their coming by
hearing the noise. They shot up very rapidly from the floor.
April loth, 1874.—Dr. S., Mr. Percival, and I. Peculiar raps, and
a figure at the end of the table, in the place where Mrs. Speer usually
sits. I was conscious of it, and the influence was not good. In trance
I spoke to it and held a long conversation with it. It gave the name
of John C. " I got rid of my body on the 8th of April." He
died at Keswick. I remember the grey look of the spirit ; I wished
it to be taken away. The knocks were quite new—very loud and
imperious.1
The Times, Standard, and Telegraph have been searched in vain
for a notice of Mr. Canister's death. At Somerset House we find
the entry: "John B. Callister, gentleman, aged 33, died of cardiac
paralysis, at Turnside Lodge, above Derwent, April 9th, 1874." There
is here a day's discrepancy of date, but patients dying of cardiac
1 Miss Birkett writes :—
"After a time Mr. M. said he saw a spirit at the end of the table. Its
appearance seemed to annoy him, and he said he did not like the looks of it
and wished it would go away. Presently loud raps were heard on the table
near it, and the following sentence was given. . . . Mr. M. replied,
'Now his father has come ; I see him standing near it' We were further
told that he had died suddenly at Keswick on April 8th. He had been
slightly known to the medium some few years before. The day of the séance
was that of his funeral. The circumstances [i.e., the death itself as well as
the rest] were previously unknown to the sitters."
46 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
paralysis not infrequently die when lying down in bed, and are found
dead in the morning.—F.W.H.M.]
Imperator controlled and gave information about the phosphoric
scene of the other night, and some scent was made on the spot and
showered on us. The Prophet's light and Grocyn's sound very pure
and good ; two kinds of scent ; made from our bodies, it was said.
Imperator said that the phosphoric smoke of the other night was
caused by an abortive attempt on the part of Chom to make a light.
There were, he said, ducts leading from our bodies to the dark space
beneath the table, and into this space these ducts conveyed the
substance extracted for the purpose of making the light. The phosphoric
substance was enclosed in an envelope which was materialised. It was
the collapse of this envelope that caused the escape of the phosphoric
smoke and the smell. This substance was the vital principle, and was
drawn from the spine and nerve centres principally, and from all the
sitters, except those who were of no use or were deterrent.
April [18], 1874.—Séance at Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. Speer
and I.—The phenomena comprised the usual knockings, tilts, movements
of my chair and of the table. Prophet's light and two of Chom's.
W. B. C. appeared again and touched my finger, the result being that
the skin was broken and the joint swollen up. The pain gradually
ceased, but the mark still remains after 48 hours. Chom controlled,
and in answer to request, wrote with a green pencil, which Dr. S. put
down on paper marked by us before the sitting. This shows conclu.
sively that the pencil put down was used. Quantities of scent.
Grocyn's sounds very dull. He entranced me, and I am told that they
were then better than any he had ever made. Asked why, he said,
" Medium entranced." The table moved freely without contact, and
was levitated slightly. It was moved beyond my reach and then
brought back to me. The raps very loud. The Prophet's light was very
bright. I saw clairvoyantly the " little Catherine " and J. B. C. He
sat on the harmonium stool, and apparently had two guardians with
him. The different noises going on were very numerous as well as loud.
I was considerably convulsed.
Wednesday, April 22nd, 1874.—A disturbed séance; very dark. I
was afterwards told that the efforts of the band were devoted to
keeping away a number of undeveloped spirits. A noise was made
like opening a fan, a very curious noise on the fireguard, and a grating
sound between Mrs. Speer and Mr. Percival. When I returned home
I was conscious of the presence of a form, and the name of Judge
Edmunds was spelt out three or four times. I could not understand
it, as I had no news of his death. However, on the following Sunday
I received at Southend a copy of the Medium, in which his death on
April 5th was announced.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Mose*. 17
April 26</i, 1874.—Southend. —Dr. Speer and I went on to the
Pier, which is 1^ miles long, and sat reading at the end of it. Whilst
so sitting I heard clear metallic raps on the rail in front of us. We
satisfied ourselves that the sounds were real and as clear as mi the
table. They purported to come from Philoeophus. They were very
clear and continuous ; they followed us up the Pier as we returned,
and from time to time we tested them by putting our ears down. In
the evening (this was at 4 p.m.) we went on the Pier at 8 p.m., and
tried the experiment again. A bright moon shone overhead, and we
-were some half a mile from land, about a third down the Pier. First
we tried to elicit raps. I stood beside a post and placed as much of
my body in contact with it as I could. Dr. Speer listened for raps.
They were distinctly audible at 20, 25, 30, 40, and 50 yards. I could
hear them well without putting my ear down. After 50 yards Dr.
Speer failed to hear them. In the afternoon I thought I heard a faint
sound of Grocyn, and now his sounds came out as clear and resonant
as in a closed room. They were distinctly audible to both of us—and
we were 70 yards apart—and were apparently made in the space between
us. At least, the sound was far off apparently to both of us. Had the
night been dark I believe the power could have been intensified. It
struck me as a very singular fact that such phenomena should occur in
mid-ocean (so to say) and in good light. with no means of concentrating
the power.
In the evening we had a seance—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self—in a
small apartment which we occupy here (8, Cashiobury-terrace). Almost
the whole of one side of the room is window, which Mrs. Speer
darkened as well as she could. The table was an ordinary round table,
five feet in diameter. Raps came almost directly, and we had some very
beautiful scent, which was like sweet-briar. Mrs. S. had got some
fresh flowers in the room, with sweet-briar among them and gorse.
The Prophet showed his light, although the room was not very dark,
and Mentor came and showed his light once. He controlled then, and
said that he was not allowed to make lights, as I was so ill (I have a
bad attack of bronchitis). Grocyn came and played, and a new musical
sound was made, like a guitar, in the wood of the table. Philosophus
rapped, and I saw Chom, Mentor, Rector, and others clairvoyantly.
Rector manifested very strongly.1
1 Mrs. Speer's account of this sitting (Light, December 24th, 1892) begins
as follows :—
"April 26th.—We again sat at Southend, but were not able to darken the
toom. I had been suffering from neuralgia all day, and had been alone.
Through the day I perceived,'every now and then, delicious scent, which
became more pronounced towards the hour of our meeting, filling the
passages, Mr. S. M.'s room, and the one I was sitting in. So strong was it
48 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
April 27th, 1874.—Southend.—Abundant scent all through the
day. As we sat at the table during the day, Dr. S. writing a business
letter, we had a long conversation with Chom. He made a peculiar
knock, sharp and like a detonation, on the floor under the carpet. In
the evening we sat, and had quantities of scent of three kinds, one made
from the sweet-briar in the room. Chom controlled, and described the
making of scent over the table near the ceiling. It was showered down
on us over and over again, on our heads, into our hands by request,
and all about until the air was laden with it. We had Grocyn and
the new musical spirit. The Prophet showed his light. Imperator
controlled and spoke for some time ; after which lights again and
writing by Chom and Kabbila, an Indian spirit.
April 29th, 1874.—Mrs. Honeywood's, 52, Warwick-square, W.
Mrs. H., a lady friend, and myself.—We had the usual phenomena of
scent, musical sounds, raps, and lights ; the latter brilliant and clear,
flashing about very brightly. It was a very successful seance, con
sidered as in a stranger's house, with complete strangers.1
that when Dr. S. came in from his evening walk he asked who had been
burning a pastille. During the seance the spirits informed us that they had
been scenting the house all day. They fanned us with perfumed air as soon
as we sat down, and rained wet scent over us, which they made from some
sweetbriar we had in the room. We were deluged with this most fragrant
perfume ; it fell all over my face, arms, and hands ; it was poured over each
member of the circle, and into our hands by request. G. made his usual
musical sounds. While he was manifesting Chom impressed Mr. S. M. to
speak. He said he saw a spirit near the ceiling making the scent, and we
should soon have it rained over us. This was true, as immediately it came
down in showers all over the circle and table. The medium then said G.
would play, and pointed to the place where he was standing. G. then gave
us a musical scale, and played different intervals by request. The tone was
pure and clear ; he simulated the sound of pulling a tight and loose string
of a harp, also a tambourine."—M.S.
1 Mrs. Honeywood sends me an independent, but not contemporary,
account of this sitting as follows :—
"April 28th, 1874.—Mr. Stainton Moses dined with me and Miss Beale,
and afterwards proposed trying what we could get. We therefore went
downstairs to my boudoir, where Mr. S. M. had never been. We put out
the candle, and held hands. Raps soon began, and a cool breeze, then
quantities of scent fell on our hands, heads, and the table. Lights like the
flame of a candle darted about between us, over Mr. S. M.'s head, and
about the room. Mr. S. M. passed into a trance, and speaking with th»
voice of an old man, but in a very dignified and impressive manner, told us
the object of their coming was to teach and elevate mankind. Lights again
appeared, and scent wet my face and hands. The sound of a guitar string
was twanged, though I had no instrument in the house, or scent of any kind.
A short farewell speech concluded the seance."—Barbara Honeywood.
The Experiences of IP. Stainton Hoses. 4:l
Thursday, April 30th.—Dr. S. and I, alone.—A chair put on the
table. Manifestations boisterous.
Saturday, May 2nd.—As Mrs. Speer was sitting writing at her desk
a quantity of dry musk fell on it, covering paper and everything near.
It was throughout the desk, and must apparently have been put in it
under papers as well as outside. [Mrs. Speer has no note of this
special occasion, but says that musk was frequently thus deposited on
and in her desk].
Sunday, May 3rd, 1874.—I was suffering with aggravated bronchial
attack, and felt very much below par. Raps commenced at once, and
throughout the evening the manifestations were very strong. Grocyn's
sound was very good, commencing, apparently, at a great distance, and
sounding something like the muffled roll of a big drum. We hod new
sounds, too, of a zither, very pretty, five in all. They played over my
head and round the circle. They were quite independent of the table.
They were clear, very highly strung, and apparently graduated, giving
one the idea of an instrument of five strings. We were told that they
were made by a new spirit. Scent was very abundant indeed. Clumi
and Mentor controlled. The most curious part of the seance was that
in which an elaborate attempt was made to relieve my bronchitis.
When we made the usual break, after sitting for about forty minutes,
I was perfectly conscious of two materialised hands making passes over
my head, throat, chest, and back. After a time I began to throw off
from ruy hands the vitiated magnetism. My hands were thrown about
so violently that Dr. S. could hardly hold them. At one time my hands
were so fast glued to the table that Mrs. S. had to exert all her power
to get them off. After this I drew power from both sitters by making
passes over their hands and arms. After all was done I certainly
felt and looked much better than I had been for a long time. The
sensation of the hands was perfectly distinct and unmistakable. As
the seance concluded, I hecame clairaudient, and recited a long passage
from Judge Edmunds, who stood by me. He had previously spoken to
me before I heard of his death, which occurred April 5th, 1874.
May 12th.—Douglas House.—An interesting seance. The usual
phenomena, the musical sounds being very distinct. The special
point was that a quantity of powder was put on the table. I saw it
all luminous, and Chom said it was musk. There was no perceptible
odour, but the next morning it was strong. This is the only time I
have ever known such an occurrence. The odour was very pronounced.
I am still very ill with bronchitis, and sittings are suspended.
May 30th.—Douglas House. Dr. and Mrs. S. and I.—A visitor
had been in the house, and we had had no sittings. I am still ill with
bronchitis and below par. Vast quantities of scent were showered
G
50 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
down, and Grocyn came. The peculiarity of the séance was that when
I could hear the sound no one else could, and vice versd. I heard by
clairaudience and not by natural hearing, being very deaf with my cold.
On request I was enabled to hear the sound with my natural ear, but
I described it long before it was heard by the others, and heard it
frequently when they did not. At the same time I was unconscious of
sounds apparently made on the table under my nose.
I spent Whitsuntide at Broadlands, where I met Colonel Drayson,
and had some very interesting conversation with him. The editor of
the Fortnightly [Mr John Morley] was there, and I had opportunity of
seeing the proofs of Wallace's article on Spiritualism. The second
part is better than the first.
[Edmund Gurney and I also met Mr. Moses at Broadlands, (Lord
Mount-Temple's,) at this date, and heard from him an account of his
phenomena concordant with that here given.]
Thursday, June 25th, 1874. — Dr. and Mrs. S. and Mrs. F.—
Mrs. F. being a new member, there was nothing new done. The usual
manifestations, lights, music, and copious scent. I wore a gardenia in
my buttonhole, and the scent of it was diffused throughout the room
most powerfully. We had other scents, until the atmosphere was so
loaded that we were glad to get out of it. The flower after the seance
was stained and dead, as though all its vitality had been taken out of
it. This is like the effect we have noticed at Shanklin. Imperator
controlled and spoke clearly.
Friday, July ith, 1874.—P[ercival] came up unexpectedly, and Mrs.
S., at dinner, told me about sitting again with Mrs. F. I was startled,
and an indescribable feeling of fear came over me. When we sat condi
tions were very disturbed, and nothing came, except at first some very
faint rose scent. After sitting a long time, we broke, and resumed. Still
the room was dark, And the influence unpleasant. After a time a very
pungent odour of peppermint was diffused through the room. It was
very unpleasant.1 While in the garden, before we began to sit, I was
conscious of scent all round me, especially on my hair. When I rubbed
my hair my hand was scented strongly. I tried the experiment many
times. When the peppermint came I was conscious of its presence first
near my head, and it seemed, as it were, to be evolved out of the hair.
I have before noticed the same thing, but not so markedly as on this
occasion.
Monday, July 6th, 1874.—We had sat (Dr. S. and I) on Sunday,
with no results. We met again to-day, and had a good seance. Grocyn
manifested, and we had beautiful scent, rose and some other. The
1 See Dr. Speer's letter, Proceedings, Vol. IX., p. 339.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Motes.
Prophet's light was clear, and we had a new light, with drapery, very
soft and silky, round it. It was a sort of hooded light, with a very
bright nucleus within it. It seemed to be permanent. At request the
light came near, and brushed Dr. and Mrs. Speer's hands. We also
had direct writing from Chom. While it was going on we heard
scraping on the floor, and Dr. Speer, having placed the paper in a par
ticular position, with the pencil on the top of it, thinks that neither
paper nor pencil had been moved : yet the writing was on the side next
the carpet. I was slightly convulsed, and my hands were moved under
the table while the writing was going on beneath.
July 12th, 1874.—Dr. and Mrs. S., Mr. P., and self.—The weather
was close and oppressive. The phenomena were very good, notwith
standing. Scent, Grocyn, and a very remarkable manifestation of the
zither. The sound was the nearest approach to music that we have yet
had. The high noises were imitated exactly, and the runs were executed
with marvellous precision. Two instruments apparently were used, or
rather imitated, one with three high strings, and another with seven
lower ones. The little sounds of the smaller instrument were brought
out most clearly, and then were followed by an elaborate run on the
other instrument, as though the finger were drawn rapidly over the
strings. The effect was most curious. After I had observed and
noted this for a long time I was entranced, and then the sounds moved
round the circle. Grocyn's sounds were very fine, and scent very
beautiful. After the seance was over, the phenomenon of its being
evolved from my head was very marked. As J rublx'd my hair the
smell came out very markedly ; it was the same as had been given
during the seance. This phenomenon has now occurred a dozen times
very markedly. Imperator controlled, and spoke at length very cheer
fully.
Sunday, July 26/h, 1874.—A remarkable seance throughout. I
was entranced almost immediately on sitting down, and the trance
state had been coming on for some hours before. So thoroughly was it
established that I have no remembrance of anything until I found
myself in bed the next morning. I relate what was told me. Every
phenomenon was intensified ; Grocyn's sounds, the scent, lights
(Prophet's and Kabbila's), were all there. Dr. S. had put in front of him
a wine-glass, into which he asked the scent might be put. In answer
to that request a good tablespoonful was poured. This he preserved in
a bottle. Kabbila's lights were hooded, and quite different from the
Prophet's. Catharine knocked very clearly, and gave some messages.
At length she rapped out : " Look at the medium ;" and after : " Take
care of the medium." Mrs. S. naturally thought she meant after the
seance. She persisted in rapping in an eager, excited way, and after
some time a light was struck, and I was discovered to have fallen down
G 2
52 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
by the book-case, doubled up in a most awkward position, and in a
profound trance. My face was bathed for some time before any sign
of revival showed, and then I could not stand, but slipped down in a
helpless way. My legs could not support my body, and my hands
could not hold anything. Dr. S. walked home with me, and he says
that I could not have walked at all alone. I have no recollection of
anything, nor do I know how I got to bed, except that I found every
thing quite straight in the morning. 'We had an engagement with
Hudson at 4 p.m. that day, and I never recovered from the trance until
after that. Unfortunately there was a misunderstanding, and
Hudson was out, otherwise I believe we should have had a good
result. This is the deepest trance into which I have ever been thrown.
To all intents and purposes my consciousness was entirely suspended
from 8 p.m. to 9 a.m. the next day.
[Mrs. Speer's account of this seance (Light, January 7th, 1893) is
quite concordant ; but she dates it July 27th ; which, if an error,
is the only slip of the kind which I have observed in her records.
I assume Mr. Moses' date to be correct, as he gives the day of the
week as well as of the month.]
Clifton.—I spent the last ten days of August with Dr. Thomson.
During that time we experimented in the study for photographs, and got
results exactly similar to the previous Clifton photos. We also got a
head—a sort of double of mine. We sat several times and got the
usual phenomena—scent, lights, music, direct writings, and dry musk.
Roses were scented in my buttonhole, a different scent being put upon
them. They turned brown and died. Some scent put into a glass
during a seance evaporated during the night in spite of being carefully
covered over. Dr. Thomson's eldest son sat with us on the last night
of my stay. He saw the luminous appearances in the room very clearly,
and described them exactly as they seemed to me. Two very clearly
defined figures were near Dr. T., visible to both of us. We heard a
noise like that of a person trying to speak. At last one came close to
me and said " Helen "—that was the name of Dr. T.'s wife. The other
spirit was his mother, who appeared on the plate at Hudson's some
time ago.
August 31st.—Came to Shanklin. Dr. and Mrs. S. and I sat the
first night, and got the usual phenomena. Dr. S. saw a luminous
column at my right hand, and Imperator, who was controlling, told
him it was the Prophet. The light known as his flashed up at once in
the midst of it. Kabbila also manifested with his light.
September 1st.—Same sitters.—We had the three or four-stringed
lyre of Chom, and Said and his seven-stringed sound. The three-
stringed was less like a string than any sound we have ever heard. It
The Experiences of W. Stainton J/o$es.
was very remarkable. A new spirit manifested by tilts. He gave his
name Abraham Florentine, and he was in the American War of 1812,
died August 5th, 1874, aged 83 years 1 month 17 days, at Brooklyn.
The table is a very heavy one, and it requires great strength to tilt it.
The power used was enormous, and gave us all severe headaches. [This
message was verified by inquiring at the office of the Adjutant-General
of the State of New York, and will be again referred to when we
discuss the various evidences of identity in Mr. Moses' experiences.—
See p. 82.—F.W.H.M.]
September '2nd, 1874.—Same circle.—The musical manifestations
were remarkable—six different sounds were made. Grocyn, Chom,
'Welsh harper, Said, a noise like a drum made by Kabbila, and the
sound of a seven-stringed lyre. Said's sound was extraordinary ; a
high treble running note like water dropping on metal. It was scarcely
like a string. Kabbila and the Prophet showed their lights, the
Prophet's very bright and triangular in shape. Abraham Florentine
made the same peculiar quivering in the table. He came to say that
the months and days referred to his age.1
1 Mrs. Speer's account of the Abraham Florentine sittings is as follows
(Light, January 21st, 1893) :—
September Int.—This evening the raps came soon after we had settled
ourselves, and much spirit-light was visible, especially in one corner of the
room. By raps we were told that a strange spirit wished to communicate,
and would do so during the seance. G., Chom, and Said all manifested by
making their different musical sounds. After playing for some time G.
rapped out, " We have done." The table then began to quiver as if alive.
It was a heavy, solid, old-fashioned round table, difficult to more, but it
was raised several times, and a spirit rapped on it with much energy, asking
for the alphabet, and when it was called gave the name of "Abraham
Florentine."♦ We asked, " Where did you live f " "Brooklyn." And then
followed, " I fought in the war of 1812." "When did you pass away?"
" I passed August 5th, 1874." " At what age 1 " " Eighty-three years, one
month, seventeen days." This information was given in a most excited
manner, and the table was violently shaken when we did not quite under
stand the answers. Great power was taken from each of the circle, and we
were so upset by the constant violent movements of the table—producing,
each time it was moved, a kind of electric shock through us—that we had
the greatest difficulty in taking the information through the alphabet. The
spirit at last ceased, and our friend G. came to the rescue. He informed us
that the spirit had been chosen by Imperator to give us another proof of
identity, and that he had been a Spiritualist in earth-life. We were then
deluged with scent and told to cease. Mr. S. M. was in deep trance during
the time the information was given.
September 2nd. —This evening the scent was exquisite; raps came quickly,
* All the details given were afterwards completely verified. No one present at
the seance knew anything about Abraham Florentine.
54 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
September 3rd and ith.—Same circle.—Manifestations similar to
those above, but intensified. The musical sounds have reached seven,
the new one being like the noise made by striking fine porcelain, but
with a very decided ring in it. It is a very singular sound, and is
made with great intensity. The three-stringed lyre is also very
beautiful, more like the dropping of liquid on a metallic surface than
anything else. But the sounds are all indescribable.
1. Grocyn.—Since the seance, when he made such violent mani
festations he has been much quieter. The sounds are very pure, and
express feeling most wonderfully. They are most like a thick harp
string.
2. Chom makes the sound of an old Egyptian harp with four strings.
There is little similarity to a stringed sound.
3. Said makes a noise somewhat similar to Chom's, but the lyre
has only three strings. It is an old Egyptian instrument, and the
sound is like dropping water on a steel plate, a sort of liquid sound,
very intense. I am told it is very like the sound of a harmonium reed.
4. Roophal makes a sound of a seven-stringed lyre, very pretty
rippling sound, but the strings do not seem to me to be arranged in
harmonial progression.
5. Kabbila makes a sound like a drum, very deep, a sort of pro
longed roll.
6. makes a sound like the ringing of fine porcelain, only
that the ring is very much more pronounced. This is a very intense
sound.
7. The Welsh Harper makes a sound as of the highest strings of a
harp, sharp and ringing.
In addition, there is the sound of a tambourine and a sort of
flapping sound like large wings. These can scarcely be called musical
in any sense, though they are but exaggerations of others in some way.
The modus operandi is similar.
September 5th, 1874.—Mr. Percival joined us. The musical sounds
were repeated, but the principal part of the seance was taken up with
communications about W.H.S., who came with the old grinding
sound, the influence in the room being very unpleasant. Grocyn com
municated about him, the tones used being very striking. Dr. S.
and with them several musical sounds. All the stringed instruments were
heard, and a new sound like a drum. This, we were told, was a manifesta
tion of Kabbila's. He and [the Prophet] showed their lights. Abraham
Florentine came again ; we recognised his presence at once by the violent
trembling of the table. We rather objected to his rough manifestations, as
ho used up so much power. G. then interfered and told us the spirit wished
to say the one month and seventeen days referred to his age.—M.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Alosci?.
asked for the name to be given, and Grocyn spelt out "Woe." He said
it was his spirit name. G. did not know his earth name. Three of
the sitters, Dr. and Mrs. S. and I, knew it perfectly well. Thus is a
strong piece of evidence against unconscious cerebration. The know
ledge was there, yet G. said he did not know.
Dr. S. asked for the characteristic of the spirit to be put in one
word, and Greed was spelt out. Probably no word would so well
express what was wanted. G. could have no communication with him,
he said.
September 7th.—Musical sounds, but not good. After a break some
remarkable lights were made ; the Prophet's very brilliant indeed.
Mentor came and controlled, and showed a light much smaller than he
had shown before. Kabbila also showed his light, and two at least
were visible at the same time. The lights never faded during the half-
hour in which they were visible. Some very fine drapery hung from
Mentor's lamp, which he brushed over the hands and faces of the
sitters. It was as fine as gossamer, and was lit up by the lamps. At
request M. struck the table with his lamp, and all felt his hand, which
was as real as a human hand. He also said that Kabbila had
materialised partly. The lamp struck P.'s head. It was apparently
ofsome such shape as this, brightly luminous, and with drapery brightly
lit up. During the night I heard the grinding sound very strongly,
and Grocyn sounded very sweetly. He said " W." wanted prayer, and
came to get good and to progress. He would do no harm.1
mr. MOSeS' SketCH OF MentOr'S lamP and draPery.
lA seance, during the whole of which Mr. Moses was entranced, may
here be described in Mrs. Speer's words (Light, January 28th, 18!I3) :—
September 10th.—Mr. Percival having left Shanklin, this evening the
circle sat alone. The room soon seemed full of foggy light, and Catharine
quickly rapped. G. sounded three musical notes ; through the alphabet he
told us that, though the atmosphere was bad, we were to sit and they would
do all they could for us. Mr. S. M. was deeply entranced, and continued in
that state all through the seance. The stringed instruments were played,
56 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
September 19th.—Same circle and place.—Whilst walking up and
down before the- windows in the garden I distinctly heard the sound of
the fairy bells in the air. They seemed to come from a distance, and
were sweet and clear. Both Dr. and Mrs. Speer heard them as well as
myself. When we sat down they began again, and I heard them very
clearly. They seemed to come from a great distance, and gradually
came on the table. I then became entranced, and the sounds are
described as being very remarkable, long runs being made, and the
sounds running up and down, so that the wood seemed to be alive.
Catharine knocked very loudly, and seemed to be in command. The
three and four-stringed instruments were played while I was awake and
thoroughly able to appreciate what was going on. After that came
the seven-stringed instrument, played, as we were informed, by a third
Egyptian, Roophal, contemporary with Chom and Said. The sounds
were very distinct, and I was able to question and elicit replies. The
reply was made by striking three strings once or twice, as occasion
required. Abundant scent (jasmine) was showered down. Dr. Speer
had asked for some before we sat—we had forgotten to put a glass on
the table. There must have been an ounce or more of it. Grocyn's
sound was very powerful and sweet. I have not before had so good
an opportunity of hearing the sounds. They are incredible to anyone
who has not been led up gradually, as we have been. The purity and
intensity of them is beyond description.1
and the sounds evoked were delightful and startling ; chord after chord was
played witli great strength and rapidity. This manifestation lasted for some
time. Dr. S. then remarked that many spirits seemed to have left us, and
mentioned the name of Dr. Dee In a few moments he manifested, striking
the table a tremendous blow ; both the medium and myself were greatly
upset. Mr. S. M. began to move and groan as if in pain. The shock was
so sudden that it made us feel cold, and the conditions became inharmonious.
Suddenly the room grew very bright, and I felt enveloped in a cloud of light
and exquisite scent. This was wafted over us. Liquid scent was also
showered over our hands and heads. This delicious perfume brought
harmony, and we heard raps, asking for the alphabet. The message given
was " Benjamin Franklin is present." I then heard a sweet tinkling sound
like a clear bell close to my ear; it moved and played in front of the medium,
who was still deeply entranced, and afterwards it played over the middle of
the table, when Dr. S. heard it for the first time. It was a striking mani
festation, the notes were so clear, sweet, and low—we named it "fairy
beds."—M.S.
1 Mrs. Speer's account of this sitting, and summary of sounds made, may
here be given (Light, January 28th, 1893) :—
September 19th.—Before meeting this evening we heard the " fairy bells "
playing in different parts of the garden, where we were walking ; at times
they sounded far off, seemingly playing at the top of some high elm trees,
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. .-7
September 20fJi, 1874.—Same place and circle.—Our last sitting
had a totally different result from what we expected. Imperator
usually comes to bid us farewell. On thus occasion I was almi«t
entirely free from influence, and Mrs. Speer was almost entirely en
tranced. Dr. Speer also experienced the same tingling in his hands.
During the sitting I saw a luminous hand moving about the room, and
under it a round luminous object. This I saw repeatedly, and each
time some little round object fell, either on the table, on our hands, or
music and stars mingling together, then they would approach nearer to us,
eventually following us into the seance-room, which opened on to the lawn.
After we were seated the music still lingered with us, playing in the corners
of the room, and then over the table round which we were sitting. They
played scales and chords by request, with the greatest rapidity, and copied
notes Dr. S. made with his voice. After Mr. S. M. was entranced the
music became louder and sounded like brilliant playing on the piano. There
was no instrument in that room. The sound we called the seven-stringed
instrument became coherent for the first time this evening, and answered
questions through the alphabet with this instrument instead of rapping on
the table. The spirit told us that he was an Egyptian, his name was
Roophal, he had been a priest in the Temple of Osiris, and a friend of Said
and Chom. The scent was most abundant, and was thrown all over the
table and circle. It had been brought for us to save, but as we had for
gotten to place a gloss on the table, they threw it over us in large quanti
ties. We had mentioned before commencing the seance that we should
like more scent to add to what had already been obtained and bottled.
During our visit to Shanklin so many different musical sounds were
developed that I propose now placing them on record.
G., who had manifested so long in the circle, and whose sounds resemble
a harp, tambourine, and double bass.
The Welsh Harper, who always played apparently on a very small harp,
making high notes, on very tight strings.
Chom and Said played on instruments which consist of three or four
strings.
Roophat on a seven-stringed instrument. This was like a very sweet
harp playing in the air.
We had also Kabbila's drum sound, and the one, for want of a better
name, we called the plate sound, as it resembled a sound that could be
]oade on a china plate turned upside down and struck with a small hammer.
Fairy bells. Introduced when Benjamin Franklin first manifested in our
circle. We had always associated these sounds with him and the spirits
who came with him. It was an exquisite manifestation, something like a
musical box, but more ethereal, and the notes sweeter. We used to
hear it playing about us very often at this time, especially when out in the
garden late at night. It was our habit to open the casement window and
step on to the lawn after our seance was concluded, and I often heard these
" fairy bells " playing at midnight among the trees, the effect being very
beautiful and unearthly.—M.S.
58 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
on our heads. These were afterwards found to be round beads, such
as we have had before. After the seance was over I was smoking, the
gas was lighted, and we were walking about, with the window wide
open on to the garden, when the pearls began to fall again. They
descended in a shower from the ceiling, or dropped about the carpet,
until there were some thirty of them, O about this size. In one
case a shower fell on my head and scattered all over the room, just as
the Guimauve lozenges had done on a previous occasion. The light
was full, and we all saw the thing done over and over again. At night
some musk was put on my dressing-table. I had seen the hand
apparently holding a luminous powder magnetically suspended under
it, at the distance of an inch apparently. All the power during this
series of seances has apparently been devoted to the musical sounds,
and to attempts to influence the other members of the circle. The
sounds have increased both in intensity, tone, and variety. No direct
writing and but little light. The room markedly full of luminous
vapour. Attempt at direct voice once.1
1 Mr. Moses' accounts have by this time become somewhat irregular. I
quote Mrs. Speer's account of a sitting on October 17th, 1874 :—
October 17th.—This evening, as soon as the gas was extinguished, the
room appeared full of spirit-light. Mr. S. M. saw and described G. His
musical sounds appeared to come from the place he said he was occupying.
Then he mentioned Catharine, and she immediately tapped on the corner of
the table, where he saw her standing. After this he said : "Judge Edmonds
is here." We asked if he could write for us. A message came through raps :
" We cannot write." The "fairy bells" played round the circle. Chora,
then spoke through Mr. S. M., saying that this manifestation was made by
Benjamin Franklin. Before meeting Mr. S. M. had taken three rings from
his hands and threaded them on to his watch-chain ; his watch was on one
end of the chain, and a small pocket barometer on the other ; both of these
articles he placed in side pockets of his waistcoat, the rings hanging midway
on his chain in full sight of the circle. We suddenly saw a pillar of light
advance from a corner of the room, stand between me and Dr. S., then pass
through the table to Mr. S. M. In a moment the figure flashed back again
between us and threw something hard down upon the table. We passed our
hands over the table, and found the rings had been removed from the
medium's chain without his knowledge. Catharine then rapped very joy
fully, asking for the alphabet ; the message given through it was " Franklin
did it. Cease." During the next fortnight we held several short seances,
with the usual manifestations of scent, musical sounds, raps, and light.—M.S.
Again, on November 16th, Mrs. Speer records an interesting séance.
(Light, February 25th, 1893) :—
November 16th, 1874.—The circle met as usual. Baps were heard on the
table before I had closed and locked the door. The room was soon filled,
with masses of spirit-light. Mr. S. M. had been spending the day with
us, as he was not well. Several times during the day wet scent of the most
The ExpeTieTices of W. Stainton Moses. 5!l
November 21st, 1874.—Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—A striking seanc*-.
Room full of hazy light. Little dropping sounds on the table, which
turned out to be very minute beads. Two other sizes afterwards
brought—in all there must have been five or six dozen. Beautiful
sounds of the fairy bells. I saw Grocyn making the sounds ; he
stood pointing at the table, and as he pointed the sound was made.
Behind him stood Franklin. As the power failed, F. seemed to put
more into him by passes. He gradually faded, and the sound ceased.
Vast quantities of scent have been poured down lately, and the very
singular phenomenon of the effusion of scent from the crown of my head
has been very marked. It is usually verbena, and oozes out from the
scalp. I have been suffering from neuralgia, and the process is remedial,
I believe. The odour is extremely strong.
[The entries after this point lose their regular sequence of dates.]
December 1'2th, 1874.—The effusion of scent has continued at inter
vals, being most marked when I am suffering pain. The odour is
verbena, strong enough to be perceptible throughout the house. I
have ascertained from Mrs. Acworth that she is the subject of the
same phenomenon, though in her case it is not traceable to any spot.
The odour is rose, and diffuses itself when she is tired and the power
exhausted. She is told that the object is to ward off undesirable
influences.
November 2.1th.—After a seance at Douglas House I went to bed
about twelve, and soon fell asleep. Alxmt 2. 15 a.m. I woke up suddenly
with a start, wide awake, and with an indefinable sensation that
something was about to happen. I lay on my back looking up at the
fragrant description oozed from the crown of his head. When it was coming,
he said.there seemed to be an icy cold circle round the part of his head which
became wet with the scent. While he was exjleriencing this sensation, if we
put our fingers on the spot they were wetted with the most fragrant scent,
sometimes verbena, but more frequently sandalwood. A cambric handker
chief placed on his head at such times would retain the scent for a long
period. We were told it was a remedial process, and the medium felt greatly
benefited by the treatment. Much exquisite sandalwood scent was thrown
over the circle and table. Kabbila sounded his drum and G. his double-bass.
Dr. S. then remarked : " We have never heard any wind instrument played."
A minute after the remark, a blast as from a trumpet came between Mr.
S. M. and myself. It was of the most startling character, and the note was
repeated several times. The medium felt very cold and uncomfortable
during this new manifestation. He saw the spirit who had made it standing
near the harmonium. We were told afterwards that it was made by
Benjamin Franklin, the most powerful of the physical spirits, and he hoped
he would do much for us in the future. Dr. S. asked if they could make the
harmonium sound ; it was closed, but when Mr. S. M. blew, several notes
were sounded.—M.S.
60 Tha Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
ceiling, and saw above me a luminous hand, such as I had seen before
in séances, with the fingers gathered together and holding in attraction
under them what looked like a little ball of fire as big as a pea. As I
looked the fingers were unclasped, the hand opened, and the little ball
of fire fell on my beard. So impressed was I with the reality of the
vision that I jumped out of bed at once and looked for what had struck
me. I got a light, and discovered on the bed a small opalescent stone
about the size of a large pea. It was of a brown hue, shot with pale
blue. I have since discovered that it is called Sapphirium ; it is a
Brazilian stone largely imitated in Paris.
On Thursday, December 10th, we had a sitting at Douglas House.
Dr. and Mrs. S. and self.—We burnt some gum in a little bronze
censer, and put it flaming in the middle of the table. As it died out a
number of little taps began round it and near Mrs. Speer. These
increased, each little detonation being accompanied with a little puff of
smoke, as it appeared to me. After this had lasted some time we were
told to get light, and look in the middle of the table. We did so, and
found nothing. Astonished at this, for we have always found hitherto
what we were told to look for, we put out the light, and it was rapped
out, " There is nothing." We could not understand, and thought some
playful spirit was making fun of us. " Join hands " was rapped out,
and instantly I became very violently convulsed. It was as much as
Dr. Speer could do to hold my hands. As the violent convulsions
threatened to injure my hands against the censer, Mrs. Speer re
moved it to the corner of the table next to Dr. Speer. When the
fit passed off my head fell on the table, and it was necessary to support
me in my chair to prevent me from falling. I gradually regained con
sciousness, and when light was struck two little stones were found in
the censer, similar to the one in my possession.
We have lately (December 3rd) had a sitting, with Mr. and Miss
Percival and Miss B.1 added to our circle. All the phenomena very
strong, and, in addition, we had two pieces of direct writing on the
table, one a signature, the facsimile on large scale of Ben. Franklin,
and the other of Kabbila and Rector. I saw the luminous hand
writing the signature of Franklin. When complete the paper was
taken up from Mrs. Speer's hand, near which it lay, and carried into
the air, falling on Miss Percival's hand. The other was similarly
carried up, and fell on Dr. Speer's hand. The fairy bells have also
developed great power.
Saturday, January Kith, 1875.—The sapphire which was brought
to me I had set by Leroy and Son (Regent-street) in a ring, with
respect to which I received a number of directions. When it arrivetl
1 There is a concordant account in Miss Birkett's notes.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
we held a sitting, as we were told that they wished to remove from it
the influence it had contracted by being in other hands. I placed the
ring on my silk handkerchief, in the middle of the table, and at once
it was surrounded by a luminous vapour. Knocks of all kind-* were
going on all over the table, some six or eight clearly distinguishable.
Mrs. Speer once put her hand near the ring, and when she withdrew it
it was luminous. The Prophet showed his little light all over it, and
close to our faces and hands, at the very end of our lingers. The
whole scene was very striking and curious. I was warned very strongly
not to allow the ring to go into other hands.1
1 Two quotations from Mr. Moses' letters to Mrs. Speer (Light. December
24th, 1892. and December 31st, 1892) may here be given :—
Bedford, April 2nd, 1875.
" I have nothing particular to tell you in the spiritual way. I had a very
interesting communication on Easter Sunday, which succeeded a by no
means interesting early morning experience. The Moravians, as you may
remember, wake up the dead by singing over their graves at the unearthly
hour of six a.m. on Easter Day. Whether the ' dead ' resent this treatment
or not I do not know, but for the last two Easters they have visited me with
their complainings. Last Easter they annoyed me more than enough. This
Easter I was conscious of their presence less by the physical than the spiritual
sense. They did not make so much noise, but the room seemed to swarm
with them. It is a mysterious question, that of the attraction of spirits to
earth by the direction of our spirits to them. I believe that therein lies one
of the keys to the whole question of spirit intercourse. My communication
was from Theophilus, on the spiritual significance of the Christian festival. ''
Mrs. Moses' house at Bedford is near a Moravian burying ground. From
the same place Mr. Moses writes again :—
"August Ist, 1875.—There have been some very subtle and beautiful
perfumes here. My mother can't at all make out where they come from.
Three little pearls also made their appearance on the table the other day.
I have also had a little ruby and sapphire and emerald : all small—the size
of your rubies.
" Mentor was the cunning workman who fashioned the cameo. He is not
content with his work, which he says was bad, and that he can do much
better. He actually carved it, he says. And I see no reason to doubt it,
seeing that I can find no limit to spirit-power. If they are allowed to work
in their own way they can do almost anything. It is only when we compel
them to work in lines prescribed by us that they find any difficulty.
" We are on the very threshold of the subject : even those who know
most. The vast mass of Spiritualists have no sort of idea of the matter, and
I doubt whether this age ever will have."
Another sitting may be described from Mrs. Speer's record (Light, May
13th, 1893) :—
"February 4th, 1875.—We met as usual. Rector manifested strongly,
shaking the room and the chairs on which we were sitting. It appeared as
G2 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
August 27tk, 1875.—Dudley Villa, Shanklin.—During the interval
that has passed since my last record the manifestations have developed,
and some new ones have been added. The musical sounds have been
added to by a long single note like that made by a tuning-fork. The
scent continues. We have had fewer lights than usual. Several small
gems (ruby, sapphire, emerald, as well as some pearls, a moonstone, and
others) have been brought. Some time since a cameo was cut during a
seance at Douglas House. It was rudely done, but the result was very
remarkable. Last night the experiment was repeated under very satis
factory circumstances. As soon as the séance commenced I passed into
the trance state. I derived my information from Dr. and Mrs. Speer,
who alone were present. A long message was rapped out by Catharine.
She said they had brought a shell, and were going to cut a cameo ;
that I was in trance "for the night," and that I was to be left alone till
morning, and not to be told of what was done. A light was struck,
and Dr. and Mrs. S. saw a shell in the middle of the table. I was in
deep trance. Grocyn played, and the fairy bells. There was abundant
scent of a particularly sweet kind. Then Mentor came and Imperator.
After he left light was called for, and in the centre of the table was a
cameo and a quantity of debris of shell. Noises had been heard as of
picking, and I saw a hand. The shell is more clearly cut than the first,
and shows a head, laurel-crowned. It is polished inside, and shows
plain marks of the graving tool. The seance lasted about an hour.
End of Quotations from Note-Books.
Here Mr. Moses' notebooks of physical seances end, although
there are from time to time allusions to physical phenomena in his
books of automatic script. Mrs. Speer's records continue until May
2nd, 1880, and show that the phenomena, though rarer, continued
if a very heavy man stood behind our chairs, jumping up and down with
great vigour. Scent came very abundantly, and G. manifested with his
musical sounds. After sitting for some time we heard a most melancholy
noise, which sounded like the wailing of the wind passing through an iron
grating. It grew louder and was a most weird sound, giving the impression of
unrest, wailing, and woe. We all felt awe-struck, especially when we were
informed that the sound was produced by a large body of undeveloped
spirits who were trying to get to us ; but our band of spirits would not
allow them to approach near the circle. We had never heard so awful a
sound as this before. We were then informed by a spirit controlling that
Imperator had permitted them to come, hoping that the spirit-atmosphere
round the circle would benefit them, and he had trusted they were more
progressed than they appeared to be.—M.S.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 03
much the same. A letter of Mr. Moses to Mrs. Speer, dated April,
1876, foreshadows their gradual disappearance.
"I send you a packet which you will see is 'spiritual.' It contains a
fragment of spirit-drapery sweetened by some spirit musk. Magus is the
operator, and I believe Mentor with him. At any rate, those two have been
at work. I think that the musk smells more powerfully than usual. T had
a long and very beautiful communication from Tmperator yesterday (Easter
Day) which I am minded to copy out and print. Easter Day seems to be
a favourite with them. I have had a message on that day every year. The
idea is the passage from Death to Life symbolised by the Crucifixion and
Resurrection, and typifying the death of Self Denial and Self Sacrifice lead
ing to the Regeneration or Resurrection of the Spirit from dead Matter to
the higher life. It is well worked out, and very striking. There was also a
communication written out about the state of affairs in the spiritual world.
You must read what Imperator says. He does not speak hopefully, and
wishes us not to meet yet, though he evidently contemplates the resuming
of our circle hereafter. But by that time, he says, my physical mediumship
will either be absolutely under control, so as to be no longer fraught with
danger, or will have ceased. The latter seems to be implied, though he
seems to hint that material evidence will always be forthcoming. He is very
decisive in saying what he does, and says that we are none of us ettr left.
It gives me a very strong idea of pre-arranged plans and of wise and power
ful protection. He evidently looks far ahead ; his plans now are for the far
future, and the mind is first prepare'!. I am quite conscious of that.
"I shall probably hear more before we see each other. I heard nothing
of the Moravians this year, nor was I conscious of any ' presence,' which
looks like a withdrawal from the objective. But Mentor's drapery and musk
are objective enough."
£,' The letter from which these extracts are taken" (adds Mrs. Speer) " still
retains the scent of the musk referred to at the commencement, as
' sweetening the spirit-drapery,' although it was written nearly seven
teen years ago. The drapery is lost, but the strong perfume of musk
remains fresh and pungent."]
On May 2nd, 1 880, occurred the last sitting which Mrs. Speer has
recorded. She concludes her records in I.ight (October 21st, 1893)
with the following words :—
"I have now come to the end of the seances at which any notes were
properly taken. Other meetings we have since had occasionally, and at
times Imperator spoke through Mr. S. M. until within a few months of his
decease. Raps were sometimes heard and messages given. Musk and coral
were also brought and scattered over the room at several different times. Half
that took place could not be recorded, and often the addresses were imperfectly
taken down. It is also impossible to give any idea of the impression pro
duced upon the circle by the beauty and refinement of some of the manifes
tations, or by the power and dignity of Imperator's influence and personality.
And now I may say, in concluding what has been to me a most pleasant
task, that if a perusal of these personal records of the most interesting
64 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
experiences I have ever been through should in any way lead inquirers to
realise how far more elevating a study the higher aspects of Spiritualism
present than the investigation of the mere phenomena with which the subject
is usually associated, in this case I shall feel that the preparation and publi
cation of these ' Records ' will have borne good fruit, and that my work
will have not been undertaken in vain.—M.S."
Here these citations from reports of the seances may, I think,
fitly close. Mrs. Speer's fuller accounts are accessible in Light ; and I
assume that Mr. Moses' own record of seances will be somewhere
accessible to future students. The remaining records by Dr. Speer,
Miss Birkett,1 and Mrs. Garratt, which I have left unprinted, are
fully concordant, and will, I suppose, be similarly preserved. Such
papers as I have any control over will be deposited in the archives of
the S.P.R. There is a good deal of correspondence, &c., which I have
examined, without finding any discrepancy worth mentioning in any
of the accounts. For my own part, I see no way in which these
records could have come into existence, with the support of the four
living witnesses known to me, except on the hypothesis of their sub
stantial truth.
Section B.—Examination of Automatic Writings.
B.—The next division of our work must be an examination of
the automatic writings. The 24 books of these writings, already-
described, although mostly of small size, contain, of course, far more
matter than can be printed here. I propose to deal with these as
follows. In Sections B, C, D, I shall analyse the bulk of the evidence
which they contain bearing on the question of spirit-identity. In
Section E, I hope later on to discuss the rationale of the physical
manifestations, and to quote matter from these notebooks bearing-
thereon ; especially the record of certain phenomena occurring to
Mr. Moses when alone, with which the automatic messages are inter
spersed. In Section F I hope to give a brief resume of the " Spirit
Teachings," already published in part in the book of that name,
and of which further specimens may, I hope, be published hereafter.
These automatic messages were almost wholly written by Mr. Moses'
own hand, while he was in a normal waking state. The exceptions are
of two kinds. (1) There is one long passage, which must some time be
further discussed, alleged by Mr. Moses to have been written by himself
while in a state of trance. (2) There are, here and there, a few words
alleged to be in " direct writing";—written, that is to say, by invisible
hands, but in Mr. Moses' presence ; as already several times described
in the notes of seances.
1 Miss Birkett's notes cease June 7th, 1880.
The Experiences of IF. Stainton Moses. r,:l
Putting these exceptional instances aside, we find that the
writings generally take the form of a dialogue, Mr. Moses proposing
a question in his ordinary thick, black handwriting. An answer is
then generally, though not always, given ; written also by Mr. Moses,
and with the same pen, but in some one of various scripts which
differ more or less widely from his own. The evidential value of these
handwritings will be discussed hereafter. In the meantime Mr.
Moses' own description of the process, as given in the preface to
Spirit Teachings, may be studied with advantage.
" The communications which form the bulk of this volume were received
by the process known as automatic or passive writing. This is to be
distinguished from Psychography. In the former case the psychic holds the
pen or pencil, or places his hand upon the planchette, and the message is
written without the conscious intervention of his mind. In the latter case
the writing is direct, or is obtained without the use of the hand of the
psychic, and sometimes without the aid of pen or pencil.
" Automatic writing is a well-known method of communication with the
invisible world of what we loosely call Spirit. I use that word as the
most intelligible to my readers, though I am well aware that I shall be told
that I ought not to apply any such term to many of the unseen beings who
communicate with earth, of whom we hear much and often as being the
reliquioe of humanity, the shells of what were once men. It Is no part of my
business to enter into this ghost question. My interlocutors call themselves
spirits, perhaps because I so call them, and spirits they are to me for my
present purposes.
"These messages began to be written through my hand just ten years
since—March 30th, 1873—about a year after my first introduction to
Spiritualism. I had had many communications before, and this method
was adopted for the purpose of convenience, and also to preserve what was
intended to be a connected body of teaching. The laborious method of
rapping out messages was manifestly unfitted for communications such as
those which I here print. If spoken through the lips of the medium in
trance they were partially lost, and it was moreover impossible at first to
rely upon such a measure of mental passivity as would preserve them from
admixture with his ideas. I procured a pocket book which I habitually
carried about with me. I soon found that writing flowed more easily when
I used a book that was permeated with the psychic aura ; just as raps come
more easily on a table that has been frequently used for the purpose, and as
phenomena occur most readily in the medium's own room.
" At first the writing was very small and irregular, and it was necessary
for me to write slowly and cautiously, and to watch the hand, following the
lines with my eye ; otherwise the message soon became incoherent, and the
result was mere scribble. In a short time, however, I found that I could
dispense with these precautions. The writing, while becoming more and more
minute, became at the same time very regular and beautifully formed. As
a specimen of caligraphy some of the pages are exceedingly beautiful. The
answers to my questions (written at the top of the page) were paragraphed
and arranged as if for the press, and the name of God was always written in
H
66 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
capitals and slowly, and, as it seemed, reverentially. The subject-matter
was always of a pure and elevated character, much of it being of personal
application, intended for my own guidance and direction. I may say that
throughout the whole of these written communications, extending in
unbroken continuity to the year 1880, there is no flippant message, no
attempt at jest, no vulgarity or incongruity, no false or misleading state
ment, so far as I know or could discover ; nothing incompatible with the
avowed object, again and again repeated, of instruction, enlightenment, and
guidance by spirits fitted for the task. Judged as I should wish to be
judged myself, they were what they pretended to be. Their words were
words of sincerity, and of sober, serious purpose.
"The earliest communications were all written in the minute characters
that I have described, and were uniform in style and in the signature,
'Doctor, the Teacher,' nor have his messages ever varied during all the
years that he has written. Whenever and wherever he wrote, his hand
writing was unchanged, showing, indeed, less change than my own does
during the last decade. The tricks of style remained the same, and there
was in short a sustained individuality throughout his messages. He is to
me an entity, a personality, a being with his own idiosyncrasies and
characteristics quite as clearly denned as the human beings with whom I
come in contact, if, indeed, I do not do him injustice by the broad
comparison.
"After a time, communications came from other sources, and these were
distinguished each by its own handwriting, and by its own peculiarities of
style and expression. These, once assumed, were equally invariable. I
could tell at once who was writing by the mere characteristics of the
caligraphy.
'' By degrees I found that many spirits who were unable to influence my
hand themselves sought the aid of a spirit ' Rector,' who was apparently
able to write more freely and with less strain on me ; for writing by a spirit
unaccustomed to the work was often incoherent, and always resulted in a
serious drain upon my vital powers. They did not know how easily the
reserve of force was exhausted, and I suffered proportionately.
" Moreover, the writing of the spirit who thus became a sort of
amanuensis was fluent and easy to decipher, whereas that of many spirits
was cramped, archaic in form, and frequently executed with difficulty and
almost illegible. So it came to pass, as a matter of ordinary course,
' Rector ' wrote, but when a spirit came for the first time, or when it was
desired to emphasise a communication, the spirit responsible for the
message wrote for himself.
" It must not be assumed, however, that all messages proceeded from one
solitary inspiration. In the case of the majority of the communications
printed in this volume this is so. The volume is a record during which
' Imperator ' was alone concerned with me, though, as he never attempted
writing, ' Rector ' acted as his amanuensis. At other times, and especially
since that time, communications have apparently proceeded from a
company of associated spirits, who have used their amanuensis for the
purpose of their message. This was increasingly the case during the last
five years that I received these communications.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
"The circumstances under which the messages were written were
infinitely varied. As a rule it was necessary that I should be isolated, and
the more passive my mind the more easy the communications. But I have
received messages under all sorts of conditions. At tirst they came
with difficulty, but soon the mechanical method appeared to be mastered,
and page after page was covered with matter of which the specimens contained
in this book will enable the public to judge.
"What is now printed has been subjected to revision by a method similar
to that by which it was first written. Originally published in the Hpiritwilist
newspaper, the messages have been revised but not substantially altered by
those who first wrote them. When the publication in the Spiritualist was
commenced, I had no sort of idea of doing what is now being done.
Friends desired specimens to be published, and the selection was made
without any regard to continuity. I was governed only by a desire to avoid
the publication of what was of personal interest only, and I, perforce,
excluded much that involved allusion to those still living, whom 1 had no
right to drag into print. I disliked printing personal matter relating to
myself ; I had, obviously, no right to print that which concerned others.
Some of the most striking and impressive communications have thus been
excluded, and what is printed must be regarded as a mere sample of what
cannot see the light now, and which must be reserved for consideration at a
remote period, when I and those concerned can no longer be aggrieved by
its publication.
"It is an interesting subject for speculation whether my own thoughts
entered into the subject-matter of the communications. I took extraordi
nary pains to prevent any such admixture. At first the writing was slow,
and it was necessary for me to follow it with my eye, but even then the
thoughts were not my thoughts. Very soon the messages assumed a
character of which I had no doubt whatever that the thought was opposed
to my own. But I cultivated the power of occupying my mind with other
things during the time that the writing was going on, and was able to read
an abstruse book, and follow out a line of close reasoning while the message
was written with unbroken regularity. Messages so written extended over
many pages, and in their course there is no correction, no fault in compo
sition, and often a sustained vigour and beauty of style.
"I am not, however, concerned to contend that my own mind was not
utilised, or that what was thus written did not depend for its form on the
mental qualifications of the medium through whom it was given. So far as
I know it is always the case that the idiosyncrasies of the medium are
traceable in such communications. It is not conceivable that it should be
otherwise. But it is certain that the mass of ideas conveyed to me were
alien to my own opinions, were, in the main, opposed to my settled
convictions, and, moreover, that in several cases, information of which I
was assuredly ignorant, clear, precise, and definite in form, susceptible of
verification, and always exact, was thus conveyed to me. As, at many of the
seances, spirits came and rapped out on the table clear and precise informa
tion about themselves, which we afterwards verified, so, on repeated
occasions, was such information conveyed to me by this method of automatic
writing.
68 The Experiences of W. Stainton Hoses.
" I argue from the one case to others. In one I can positively assert
and prove the conveyance of information new to me. In others I equally
believe that I was in communication with an external intelligence which
conveyed to me thoughts other than my own. Indeed, the subject-matter
of many of the communications printed in this volume will, by its own
inherent quality, probably lead to the same conclusion.
"I never could command the writing. It came unsought usually, and
when I did seek it, as often as not I was unable to obtain it. A sudden
impulse, coming I knew not how, led me to sit down and prepare to
write. Where the messages were in regular course I was accustomed to
devote the first hour of each day to sitting for their reception. I rose early,
and the beginning of the day was spent, in a room that I used for no other
purpose, in what was to all intents and purposes a religious service. These
writings frequently came then, but I could by no means reckon upon them.
Other forms of spirit-manifestation came too ; I was rarely without some
unless ill-health intervened, as it often did of late years, until the messages
ceased.
" The particular communications which I received from the spirit known
to me as Imperator mark a distinct epoch in my life.
"I have noted in the course of my remarks the intense exaltation of
spirit, the strenuous conflict, the intervals of peace, that I have since
longed for, but have seldom attained, which marked their transmission. It
was a period of education in which I underwent a spiritual development
that was in its outcome a very regeneration. I cannot hope, I do not try,
to convey to others what I then experienced. But it may possibly be borne
in upon the minds of some who are not ignorant of the dispensation of the
spirit in their own inner selves, that for me the question of the beneficent
action of external spirit on my own self was then finally settled. I have
never since, even in the vagaries of an extremely sceptical mind, and amid
much cause for questioning, ever seriously entertained a doubt."
A prolonged study of the M.S. books has revealed nothing incon
sistent with this description. I have myself, of course, searched
them carefully for any sign of confusion or alteration, but without
finding any ; and I have shown parts of them to various friends,
who have seen no points of suspicion. I am permitted by the
executors to show such parts as contain no private matter, at my
discretion, to students interested in the enquiry ; and when the books
pass from my guardianship, they will no doubt be preserved for future
reference.
I think, however, that no one who admits that automatic writing is
possible at all, is likely to feel much doubt that we have here a genuine
and typical instance of automatic script, written under some such
conditions as those described above. It seems plain, moreover, that
the various entries were made at or about the dates to which they are
ascribed. They contain constant references to the séances which went
on concurrently, and whose dates are independently known ; and in
the later books, records of some of these séances are interspersed in
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. on
their due places amongst other matter. The M.S.S. contain also a
number of allusions to other contemporaneous facts, many of which
are independently known to myself.
I think,moreover, that on one who had studied these entries through
out would doubt the originally private and intimate character of many
of them. The tone of the spirits towards Mr. Moses himself is habitually
courteous and respectful. But occasionally they have some criticism
which pierces to the quick, and which goes far to explain to me Mr.
Moses' unwillingness to have the books fully inspected during his
lifetime. He did, no doubt, contemplate their being at least read by
friends after his death ; and there are indications that there may have
been a still more private book, now doubtless destroyed, to which
messages of an intimate character were sometimes consigned.
The questions at issue, in short, as to these messages, refer not so
much to their genuineness as to their authenticity, in the proper sense
of those words. That they were written down in good faith by
Mr. Moses as proceeding from the personages whose names are signed
to them, there can be little doubt. But as to whether they did really
proceed from those personages or no there may in many cases be very
great doubt ;—a doubt which I, at least, shall be quite unable to
remove. We must return to this problem later, when the principal
cases have been laid before the reader in detail ; at present I will
merely suggest for his guidance that he will generally find the evidence
for identity much more satisfactory in the case of spirits recently
departed, and more or less on the medium's own level, than in the case
of spirits more exalted and remote.
In his little book on Spirit Identity (1879), Mr. Moses had collected
some of the most impressive of these cases of identity, and added some
interesting matter as to the subjective side of his experiences. The
book was never widely known ; and when the small edition was
exhausted Mr. Moses postponed the re-publication, on the ground that
the book was imperfect, and that he had no time to improve it. I
repeatedly pressed him on the subject ; and when last we spoke of it
(October 15th, 1886), he said that he would some time re-write the book,
and would consult me as to further passages of M.S. to be published. The
book was never re-written ; but an essay called " The Identity of Spirit,"
found among Mr. Moses' papers, and apparently intended to be read to
the London Spiritualist Alliance, in some degree fulfils his expressed
intention. I communicated this paper first to I.ight, the newspaper
of which Mr. Moses was Editor until his death ; but 1 feel it right to
reprint it here almost in extenso, as his last word on the subject of
these identifications. I have carefully compared it with the M.S.S. on
which it rests, and have found it accurate. I have also discussed it
with Mrs. Speer, who helped Mr. Moses in its compilation and vouches
70 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
for facts of verification, &c., not recorded in the M.S. I add a few notes
where I have been able to bring some independent corroboration.
Section C.— Mr. Moses' paper on tlie Identity of Spirit.
"The evidence which has been given to me is best, perhaps, presented
in this way.
" When I first became acquainted with the subject of Spiritualism, I
came into relations with a spirit who called himself ' Imperator.' Those
who are familiar with my book Spirit Teachings will remember what
care I took to make sure that I was not being befooled by any spirit. If
the precautions that I took strike anyone as insufficient, I should much like
to know what, in the opinion of my critic, would be considered sufficient.
For in the affairs of daily life I am much less careful, aud I find usually that
people do not go about to deceive me. The longer I live the more I am
disposed to believe that the object of people on any moral plane, as a rule, La
not to take in other people—exceptia excipiendis, as will occur to all. And
so with this belief in my mind, and with these precautions that I made use
of, I present the evidence that now follows.
"It was in August, 1872, that I first became acquainted with evidence
of Spirit Identity. Dr. and Mrs. Speer and I were then sitting regularly
almost every evening. A friend of Mrs. Speer's, of whom I had never
heard, came and wrote through my hand her name, 'A. P. Kirkland.'
Dr. Speer said, ' Is that our old friend ? ' Then I wrote. ' Yes. I came
to tell you that I am happy, but I can't impress our friend to-night.' The
handwriting then changed, and there came communications from Mr.
Callister (a friend of mine) ; and from my cousin, T.J.S. ; and from another
spirit, which I do not think it of importance to mention here.
" With regard to these communications, they were distinct in style, and.
it is of importance to notice that the handwriting of Miss Kirkland was
very similar to her own, which I had never seen, and that of Mr. Callister,
on being questioned as to his identity, recalled to my memory a fact which
had escaped it, and referred to a conversation, the last I had had with him
on earth. This I do not adduce as evidence of identity, nor do I withdraw
it as such.
"This was on August 21st, 1872, and on September 4th in the same year
there came a little sister of Dr. Speer's, particulars respecting which case
are printed in Spirit Identity, p. 59, as follows :—
" ' I pass to a case in which a spirit who first manifested her presence ou
September 4th, 1872, has remained in permanent communication with us
ever since. I note this case because we have the advantage of prolonged
intercourse to aid us in forming an opinion as to identity, and because the
spirit has not only given an unequivocal proof of her characteristic
individuality, but has evidenced her presence in various ways. This is a
remarkable case, too, as tending to prove that life once given is In
destructible, and that the spirit which has once animated a human body,
however brief its tenure, lives on with unimpaired identity.
" 'The spirit in question announced herself by raps, giving a message in
French. She said she was a sister of Dr. Speer's, and had passed away at
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 71
Tours, an infant of seven months old. I had never heard her mentioned,
and her brother liad forgotten her existence, for she lived and died before
his birth. Clairvoyants had always described a child as being in my
company, and I had wondered at this, seeing that I had no trace of any such
relation or friend. Here was the explanation. From the time of her first
appearance she had remained attached to the family, and her clear, joyous
little rap, perfectly individual in its nature, is never failing evidence of her
presence. It never varies, and we all know it at once as surely as we should
know the tone of a friend's voice. She gave particulars of herself, and
also her four names in full. One (Stanhope) was new to her brother, and
he verified it only by reference to another member of the family, (Mrs.
Denis). Names, and dates, and facts were alike unknown to me. I was
absolutely ignorant of the fact of the existence of any such person.
"This little spirit has twice manifested her presence on the photographic
plate. One of these cases was attested by direct writing, and both will be
found clearly detailed in the course of my researches, in tho chapter on
Spirit Photography, published in Unman Nature, Vol. VIII., p. 3'J5. (See
also Spirit Identity, Appendix IV.)
"So here we have a presence that gives by raps a name unknown to
any person present ; that name afterwards verified ; that appears on a
photographic plate with her mother, certain distinctive features in the
figure of the mother giving further evidence of the identity of the baby-
figure ; and lastly, an attestation from those whom we had learned to trust
of the truth of it all. I lay stress on this case. Another case which I
think important is this.
''0n an evening in the month of January, 1874, I repeatedly said to
Mrs. Speer, * Who is Emily C . '? Her name keeps sounding in my ear.'
Mrs. Speer replied that she did not know anyone of that name. ' Yes,' I
said very emphatically, ' there is someone of that name passed over to the
world of spirit. ' She could give me no information, and I was disturbed,
in the way in which I always am when such things take place. This is one
of the many cases occurring about this time. When the evening paper
came in we looked (as we frequently did) at the obituary. I may say that
our nunds were set on this subject of identity. At our daily sittings fact on
fact was given to prove it and to remove any doubts. It became a regular
thing for us to receive a message giving such facts as an obituary notice
would contain. We therefore looked for them, and we found an announce
ment of the death of 'Emily, widow of the late Captain C C .'
On a subsequent evening in the following year, the date of which I can
produce, but which I have not by me at the moment, she returned again.
Dr. Speer and I had gone out for a walk in the afternoon—I was then
staying with him at Dudley Villa, Shanklin, Isle of Wight,— and at our
seance in the evening came ' Emily C C——.' I enquired what
brought her, and her answer was rapped out on the table, ' You passed my
grave.' Here I should explain that at this time I never went near a grave
yard but I attracted some spirit, identified afterwards as one whose body
lay there. I said, ' No, that is impossible ; we have been near no grave
yard,' and Dr. Speer confirmed my impression. The communication, how
ever, was persistent, and we agreed that we would take the same walk the
72 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
next day. We did so, and at a certain place I had an impulse to climb up
and look over a wall, which quite shut out from the view of the ordinary
passer-by what was behind it. I climbed up and looked over, and my eye
fell at once on the grave of 'Emily C C .,' and on the dates and
particulars given to us, all exactly accurate.
' ' Another instance similar in kind—though this is of a personal fnend of
Mrs. Speer's—is the case of Cecilia Feilden. (See Spirit Identity p. 58). We
were then at Shanklin, sitting regularly every evening, when on January 1st,
1874, there came a fresh sound, a little ticking sound in the air, close to
Mrs. Speer. We enquired what it might represent, and were told that
it indicated the presence of Cecilia Feilden, who had died 17 years ago.
We asked why she came, and were told that she had been attracted to her
old friend, Mrs. Speer, through me, and in consequence of Dr. Speer's and
my presence at her grave at Bonchurch that afternoon. She answered
many questions, and finally rapped out, 'I must now depart. Adieu.'
This word Miss Feilden always used at the end of her letters. Mrs. Speer
tells me that she seldom concluded a letter otherwise. I had never known
her, or heard of her until Dr. Speer pointed out her grave. When we rose
from the table we found that a piece of marked paper, which we had put
down under the table, had written upon it the words ' passed 17 years.'
' ' Again, there is the case of Henry Spratley. We were then the same
circle, sitting in the same way, on January 2nd, 1874, and I can aver that
not one of us had ever heard of this person. He had lately departed
(December, 1873), and it was alleged that he had been brought by the
controlling spirit, 'Imperator,' for purposes of evidence, and in pursuance of
a plan intended to break down my persistent scepticism. We had from him
messages of the usual type, saying simply who he was, when he was born,
and when he died. We found it difficult, I remember, to verify the facts,
but in the end Mrs. Speer succeeded in doing so by writing (1) to the Post
Office, making a general enquiry, to which no answer came ; (2) to the vicar
of Maidenhead, with no reply (we afterwards discovered that he was on his
holiday); (3) to the ' present occupant of Moor Cottage,' the address given
to us by the spirit ; (4) to his nearest surviving representative, who wrote
back with some surprise to say that all things were quite true. ' My father
lived here till he died on December 24th. '
"Perhaps I may here mention a case in which I endeavoured to mislead
a communicating spirit, but without any success. If there be truth in
the allegations of the too-clever people that constitute the Society for
Psychical Research, there should have been conveyed from my brain to that
of the impersonal entity with which I communicated the falsity I had
fabricated.1 There came a spirit who represented herself to be my grand
mother. I remembered her well as a child, and being at this time perfectly
free from any abnormal influence, I cross-questioned my alleged relative
at great length. The answers to my questions were given by raps, different
from any we had heard before, and during the greater part of the time
without any contact with the table.
" ' I enquired of her minute facts and dates, her birthday, the day of
her death, her children's names, and a variety of details such as occurred toi
1 I do not accept, but need not refute, this criticism.—F.W.H.M.
The Experiences of W. Staintvn Moee*. 73
me. I then asked if she remembered me as a child. She did. I proceeded
to detail two imaginary incidents such as might occur in a child's life. I did
it so naturally that my friends were completely deceived. It never occurred
to them that I was making up a story as a test. Not so, however, my
' Intelligent Operator at the other end of the line.' She refused altogether
to assent to my story. She stopped me by a simple remark that she re
membered nothing of the sort. Nor could I by any means get her to
waver, or to admit that she might be mistaken. She repeated that she
did not remember anything of the sort. I had frequently been told that
spirits would assent to anything ; and my pious fraud had as much fur its
object to test the allegation generally as to prove identity in this particular
case. . . . This spirit, at any rate, refused to assent to what I
suggested. I certainly rose from the table convinced that I had been talk
ing to a person that desired to tell the truth, and that was extremely careful
to be exact in statement. I verified all the facts, and found them exactly
given. (See Spirit Identity, p. 53.) '
"I remember well that my mother was much surprised at what she
thought to be the tenacity of my memory as to long past events.
"This narrative is becoming monotonous, but it is necessary for purposes
of argument to bring facts to bear on you as they were brought to bear on
me, if only for the same purpose. On January 4th, 1874, we had one of our
usual meetings. Bright masses of light stood between Mrs. Speer and myself,
and there came a gentle rapping directly under my hands. She asked if the
spirit wished to communicate, and to her great astonishment the name
'George Eves ' was rapped out. Greatly affected, Mrs. Speer said, ' Are you
tny brother 1 ' ' Yes. ' ' Have you ever manifested your presence before ? '
(This not from uncertainty as to the likeness, but because we wished to
ascertain in this way whether it was indeed George Eves whom we had
seen and whom his sister had recognised.) 1 Yes, I have, but not here ;
partly through, the medium you visited' (i.e., Holmes). 'Then that was
your face that I saw ? ' said Mrs. Speer. ' Yes.' Dr. Speer then asked if he
hid a sister with him. No reply, but a much deeper rap gave through the
alphabet the name 'Augustus.' Mrs. Speer, who was always very im
pressionable and generally knew what was wanted, said, " Are you my
father!' 'Yes.' 'And you manifested also at Holmes', did you not 1
' Yes.' After some further conversation, there came a little tapping again
under Mrs. Speer's hands. It would be almost impossible to make clear the
evident anxiety felt by the spirit to communicate. The quality of the raps
represented exactly the inflections of an eager human voice. We called the
alphabet, and ' Emma ' was rapped out. Mrs. Speer had a mother and
sister of that name—she enquired which. 'Sister.' ' And have you seen
our brother William ? ' ' No.' Further conversation followed, and the only
object in referring to it is to point out that it is too silly to think that any
being should elaborately imposo in this way upon people whose one and
only desire was to arrive at the truth. Nor could any of those present who
felt the atmosphere, and saw the light that surrounded us, assent to the
doctrine that we were the sport of devils. I never sat under better con
ditions, nor in a more harmonious state, and I rely on such sensations quite
as much as I do on material tests.
74 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
"Another case that I think important is recorded in my Spirit Identity,
pp. 65—66, as follows :—
" ' One more case of extremely minute evidence given in detail through
the means of raps, and corroborated by automatic writing, must be given
before I close. About the same time of which I have been speaking, the
whole of one of our séances, extending nearly to two hours, was taken up
by the communication of a series of facts, names, dates, and minute par
ticulars from a spirit who was apparently able to reply to the most searching
questions. The day of his birth, particulars as to his family history, and
details of his early life were given at my request. Then came a perfect
autobiography, so far as salient facts were concerned, and embracing some
trivial particulars, which, however, fell into their place in the most natural
way. All questions were answered without the faintest hesitation, and
with perfect clearness and precision. The particulars were taken down at
the time, and are in all respects, where verification is possible, exact and
accurate. Even if this case stood alone in my experience, it is more difficult
for me to imagine that what was so laboriously and precisely given was the
product of imposture, the fraud of a deceiving spirit, or the vagary of an
errant brain, than to believe, as I assuredly do, that the intelligent operator
was the man himself, with memory unimpaired and individuality un-
destroyed by the change which we call death. Resting, as it does, on the
same basis with other facts that I have detailed, and with many that I have
not, it presents one more link in the chain of evidence In addition to the
long series of facts thus communicated by means of raps, there stands in a
book which I used at this time for automatic writing, a short letter written
automatically by me in a peculiar archaic handwriting, phrased in a quaint
old-fashioned spelling. It is signed with the name of the spirit in question,
who was a man of mark in the days of his life upon earth. I have since
obtained a letter in his handwriting, an old yellow document, preserved on
account of the autograph. The handwriting in my book is a fair imitation
of this, the signature is exact, and the piece of old-fashioned spelling occurs
exactly as it does in my book. This, it was said, was purposely done as a
point of evidence.'
" So much for the quotation. What follows is from my private records.
This same Thomas Wilson came to our circle on January 25th, 1874, and
occupied the whole of the evening in giving the most minute details with
regard to himself and his people, through tilts, or rather levitations, of the
table. I got tired to death, but still he went on. He said that he was born
at Burton, in Cheshire, on December 20th, 1663, and that he died on March
7th, 1755, aged 91. That his mother's name was Sherlock, and that she
was born at Orton, in Cheshire. That his schoolmaster was Mr. Harper, of
Chester. That he was ordained by Dr. Morton, Bishop of Kildare, to a
curacy of his uncle's, Dr. Sherlock, in 1686. That on January 29th (St.
Peter's Day), he was made Bishop of Sodor and Man ; that he married Mary
Patten, of Warrington, in 1698, and had four children—Mary, died aged 13 ;
Thomas, aged one year ; Alice, aged 2 years, and another son, Thomas, who
outlived him. He told us that ' Imperator ' had sent him to the circle.
His rap was clear and distinct. All these details were quite unknown to
the circle, but were verified afterwards, and an old letter sent by a friend to
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 7.'.
me verified the handwriting. The word ' friend ' in it is spelt witli the e llefore
the i, as in the automatic writing. ... I ask, if he were not the man he
pretended to be, who was he ? For it is more difficult to conceive that any
being could counterfeit the Intelligence represented than to believe that the
Intelligence itself was present."—[Note A.]
"Another account to which I should like to refer is that of Rosamira
Lancaster :—
" 'On February 28th, 1874, and following evening, a spirit came by raps,
and gave the name of "Rosamira." She said that she died at Torquay on
January 10th, 1874, and that she had lived at Kilburn. She stated that her
husband's name was "Lancaster." At this time I was troubled about details,
and so I asked her husband's Christian name, and I got " Ben," and then the
power failed. (The obituary showed that the full name was Benjamin.)
I then passed under the control of " Imperator," and he said that he had
tried as far as he could til bring this spirit to us. Afterwards the truth of
the statements was verified by me, and they were found to be absolutely
exact ; and it is, perhaps, important to say in this connexion that not only
were they (i.e., the facts) literally true, but that nothing was said that was
not true ; nor was there any surplusage of detail—only plain, definite,
positive facts.' "—[Note B.]
"On the principle of driving the nail home, I will now give the case of
Henry Le Mesurier. I had been a pupil of his at Bedford School, and on
June 17th, 1874, there came a new rap on the table. On enquiry the name
of ' Le Mesurier ' was given. At that time I was entranced, and, therefore,
incapable of asking questions. Mrs. Speer enquired what the spirit
wanted. ' I have proved,' he said, ' that you were right, and that I was
wrong.'—[Note C] On what ground is it conceivable that a spirit should
come back and tell that lie 1
And here I may refer to an account that has already appeared in print
in Spirit Identity, pp. 61-63, as follows :—
"On February 10th; 1874, we were attracted by a new and peculiar
triple tap on the table, and received a long and most circumstantial account
of the death, age (even to the month), and full names (in two cases four,
and in the other three, in number) of three little ones, children of
one father, who had been torn from him at one fell swoop by the Angel
of Death. None of us had ever heard the names, which were peculiar.
They had passed away in a far distant country, India ; and when the message
was given us there was no apparent point of connexion with us. [See above,
p. 39.] The statements, however, were afterwards verified in a singular
manner. On March 28th, 1874, 1 met, for the first time, Mr. and Mrs. A. A.
Watts, at the house of Mr. Cowper Temple, M.P. (afterwards Lord Mount-
Temple). Our conversation was concerned, chiefly, with evidence of the
kind that I am now summarising. I recounted various cases, and among
others, the case of these three children. Mrs. Watts was much struck with
the recital, which corresponded in outline to a very distressing history which
she had just heard. On the Monday previous Mr. and Mrs. Watts had
dined with an old friend, Mrs. Leaf, and from her had heard a distressing
story of bereavement which had befallen the relative of one of Mrs. Leaf's
acquaintances. A gentleman residing in India had, within a brief space of
76 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
time, lost his young wife and three children. Mrs. Leaf entered fully into
the melancholy details, but did not mention either names or the place of the
sad occurrence. In reciting the incident of three young children com
municating with me, I gave the names and the place, as they had been
furnished to me in the messages. Mrs. Watts undertook to ascertain from
Mrs. Leaf the particulars of the case she had mentioned. She did so on the
very next day, and the names were the same. Through the kindness of
Mrs. Watts I made the acquaintance of Mrs. Leaf, and was much impressed
with the perfect correspondence of every detail given to me with the facts as
they occurred.
"It is not a little remarkable that, on the very day on which the
communication was made, Mrs. Watts, who possesses a very beautiful gift of
automatic drawing, which had been for some time in abeyance, was impelled
to draw three cherub heads, which, she was afterwards spiritually informed,
were drawn in typical allusion to this sad event. Other details, symbolic of
the country in which it occurred, and of the attraction of the mother's spirit
to her three little ones, were added. The drawing forms a very striking
illustration of the various methods employed to reach various types of mind.
Mrs. Watts—at that time, be it noted, unknown to me—had always been
instructed in the language of symbolism, by poetic simile, and by artistic
representation. I, on the contrary, had not progressed so far. I was on a
material plane, seeking for truth after my own fashion, and craving hard for
logical demonstration. So to me came hard facts, clearly given, and nothing
more. To her came the symbolic indication, the artistic delineation, the
poetry of the incident. The source, however, was one. It was the Spirit
manifesting Truth to us according to our several needs.
" I regard that case as one of the most complete and remarkable that have
ever fallen within my knowledge. For not only was the information given
to me absolutely true, complete, and definite—-it seems to me that we cannot
attach too much importance to definite evidence—but the facts conveyed to
me in my own way—that is to say, in a very positive manner—were
conveyed to my friend in the way that reached her best, ideally, pictorially,
and through the imagination. Now, I should like to say that anyone who
postulates a deceptive and fraudulent spirit going about to deceive me—I
pray you, for what purpose 1—has to account for the fact that this most
deceptive spook has used two methods of deceiving two different people.
To me he must have told circumstantial lies ; for my friend he must have
made some extremely curious drawings. I present this case for observation
because I think that if I were a being who wanted to deceive you, I should
use some more simple and less complex methods. In other words, I should
appeal more directly to your intelligence."— [Note D.]
" Passing by much that I shall eventually lay before the public, I will
now quote the case given in Spirit Identity, p. 193 (Appendix III.), of a
' Man Crushed by a Steam-roller,' as contributed by an eye-witness of the
seance [F. W. Percival] to the Spiritualist of March 27th, 1874 [And
see p. 42 above] :—
'' 'On the evening of Saturday, February 21st, a few friends met together
at the house of Mrs. Makdougall Gregory, 21, Green-street, Grosvenor-
square, W. The party numbered six in all, and included the Baron Du
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
——
Potet, and the gentleman to whose mediumship we are indebted for the
"Spirit Teachings " which have appeared from time to time in your columns.
There was no intention of having a seance, and ordinary topics were the
subject of conversation, when suddenly, in the middle of dinner, this
gentleman surprised us by saying that he felt a spirit standing near him
between himself and the Baron (who sat on his right) ; whether good or bad
he could not tell, but the influence was by no means pleasant. The spirit
was also perceived by the Baron, to whom it conveyed the impression that it
was in a state of great distress, and that it was the spirit of a person then
alive. Nothing more was said at the time, but the medium continued to
feel a disagreeable influence near him, and spoke of it to me when dinner
was over. As soon as we reached the drawing-room he was impelled to sit
down and write ; and when a pencil and paper had been brought, his hand
was moved backwards and forwards with great rapidity, and an object was
roughly drawn on the paper which resembled a horse fastened to a kind of
cart or truck. Several attempts were made to depict it more clearly, and
then the following sentences were written :—" I killed myself—I killed my
self to-day—Baker-street —medium passed." Here the writing became
unintelligible, as the medium grew more and more agitated, until at length
he rose from his seat in a state of trance, and exclaimed in broken
sentences : " Yes, yes. Killed myself to-day, under a steam-roller. Yes,
yes. Killed myself—blood, blood, blood." The control then ceased, but
the medium felt the same unpleasant influence for some hours afterwards,
and could not entirely shake it off for some days. In reference to the com
munication, I may state that, although the medium had passed through
Baker-street in the afternoon, neither he nor anyone present was aware that
a man had committed suicide there in the morning by throwing himself
under a steam-roller. A brief notice of the occurrence appeared in the Pull
Hall Gazette in the evening but none of the party had seen that paper. It
is worth remarking that on the front of the steam roller which was used in
Baker-street a horse is represented in brass, and this, perhaps, may serve to
account for its appearance in the medium's drawing, where we should
certainly not expect to find it.
" ' Allow me, in conclusion, to point out a few of the inferences that may
fairly be drawn from the facts I have stated by those willing to accept them
as true. In the first place, they would seem to prove that no amount of
injury done to the body at the time of death incapacitates the spirit for
immediate action. In this case the unfortunate man was literally crushed to
pieces, and yet a few hours afterwards his spirit could communicate in
writing through the medium, and could also make use of his organs of
speech. In the next place, it would appear that a spirit just released from
the body carries with it something corporeal ; otherwise, it is difficult to
account for the Baron's impression that the spirit he perceived was that of a
person who was then living. Again, we may infer that spirits immediately
after death are able to recognise a medium through whom they can
communicate. In the case before us it would appear that the spirit followed
the medium from Baker-street, and waited for an opportunity of making his
presence known. And, lastly, I would add the remark that the man who
accepts the facts I have stated, and seeks for a solution of the difficulties
78 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
that surround them, will look in vain for much assistance from psychic force
or unconscious cerebration.' "—[Note E.]
"Again, there is the case of Charlotte Buckworth, printed in Spirit
Identity, p. 112, Appendix III. (See also Spirit Teachings, p. 287) :—
" ' A spirit communicated by means of raps, giving particulars as to her
life, which were precise, and entirely unknown to any member of the circle.
On the day following I inquired respecting her, and an account was given to
the effect that her name, Charlotte Buckworth, was rightly given ; that she
had no special connexion with me or with my friends, but spoke as one who
was present. The fact that I had been on the previous day in company with
four persons, all more or less mediumistic, had prevented regular communica
tions, and had introduced a disturbing element.
" ' It was said that Charlotte Buckworth, the spirit in question, had been
suddenly deprived of bodily existence in 1773, at a party of pleasure, at a
friend's house in Jermyn-street. Further enquiry elicited the information
that she had suffered from a weak heart, and had dropped down dead while
dancing. My friend, who was writing, could not say whose house, but
subsequently returned to give me the information—Dr. Baker's, on
December 5th. We were not able to verify this information, and had given
no further thought to the matter. Some considerable time after, however,
Dr. Speer had a friend at his house, who was very fond of rummaging
among old books. We three were talking one evening in a room in which
there were a number of books rarely used, arranged in shelves from floor to
ceiling.
" ' Mr. A. (as I will call him) mounted a chair to get at the topmost shelf,
which was filled with volumes of the Annual Register. He took one down
amid a cloud of dust, and commented on the publication as a valuable
record of events. Almost anything, he said, could be found in it. As he
said this the idea flashed into my mind at once most vividly that there was
the place to look for a record of Charlotte Buckworth's death. The event
would probably create interest, and so would be found in the obituary which
each volume contains. The impression was so strong—it seemed as though
a voice spoke to my inner sense—that I hunted out the volume for 1773, and
there I found, among the notable deaths, a record of this occurrence, which
had made a sensation as occurring at an entertainment at a fashionable
house, and with awful suddenness. The facts were exactly given. The
book was thickly covered with dust, and had evidently not been disturbed
since it had been consigned to the shelf. I remembered that the books had
been arranged five years before ; there they had lain ever since, and but for
Mr. A.'s antiquarian tastes no one would have meddled with them. The
verification was, I believe, as distinctly spiritual in its suggestion as was the
communication.'
"Perhaps one of the most striking cases I can present is the first
experience that occurred to me. (See Spirit Identity, pp. 124—12C,
Appendix V.) :—
. . . " I inquired where I could see for myself these new phenomena,
and was informed that Miss Lottie Fowler [a well-known professional
medium.] was about to hold a seance that very evening (April 2nd, 1872), at
15, Southampton-row. I went, and was greatly astonished at what I saw
The Experiences of IF. Stainton Moses. 7!)
and heard. I need not take up time |ly detailing the occurrences of the
first part of the sitting ; most Spiritualists are familiar with the usual
routine of Miss Fowler's seances. Much hazy nonsense was talked, and
many vague statements made, which seemed to me to be of no use what
ever as tests of spirit identity. I was rapidly becoming nauseated. I
craved fur something more clear, somethmg on which I could rest as a
staple piece of evidence. I enquired, therefore, whether I might endeavour
to obtain some such proof for myself. Leave was at once given by the
director of the circle, and I addressed the spirit who controlled the medium.
" ' You are tiring your medium, and making fun of us. Go and send
someone who is serious."
"The medium shivered and turned away, and the voice came as though
troubled.
" 'You've nothing to do with me. I won't go. Me no go.'
" ' Yes, you will. You'll go and send some one else.'
"After more colloquy the medium shivered again, seemed to bo in pain,
and stood rooted to the spot, crouching as if in dread.
" After a time the voice came again, but utterly changed ; the voice, this
time, of a man, very calm and unimpassioned, instead of the child-voice
speaking baby jargon.
" ' You want me ? '
" ' Yes. What is your name ? '
" ' I'd rather not tell you. You can ask me any questions.'
" 'No. Tell me what you see, or describe any one whom you see near
me. I will answer yes or no ; no more. '
" ' I see a man, very old, tall, with a long white beard, and long hair.'
"'Yes.'
" 'The beard is very white indeed.'
"'No. Goon.'
"'He has a very high, broad forehead, and his eyes are drawn down.
Why, he's blind ! '
"'Yes.'
" ' And his face is black and blue. And ' (here the medium shuddered
violently)—' oh ! what's that in his mouth ? It's like slime—and mud—and
oh ! blood.'
"'Yes?'
" ' And—it's dark. I can't see.'
" ' Go on. How is he dressed ? '
" ' He has a long blue coat. No, not exactly a coat—something long. I
can't see his feet. '
" ' Where does he stand ? '
" ' Right opposite ; close by you.'
" ' Can you see his name 1 '
'"No. He seems in trouble. I think it's money. He looks so horrible.
Let me go. Why do you keep me here.'
" ' Go, then. Do you know me ? '
"'No.' (This very emphatically.)
"I shall not attempt to describe the scene during the time that this
conversation was held. I have quoted from a full and careful record written
80 The Experiences of W. Stainton Hoses.
at the time, and the whole scene is photographed indelibly on my mind.
Every one seemed petrified and astonished. They would have been still
more so had they known with what photographic accuracy a scene in my
own private experience was being re-enacted before my eyes. It was, I am
sure, as unknown as I was myself. It was a scene that passed in a very
distant part of Great Britain, and it was reproduced with a realistic power
that bore down before it, as with torrent force, all doubt and hesitation. I
felt that the man was there before me ; himself reproducing the story of his-
death for my conviction.
' ' Here we have the case of a man who went to a seance with absolutely
no expectations in his mind ; he did not know what to expect ; he did not
expect anything ; and he got what in any police-court would be considered
perfect evidence of life beyond the grave.
" There is another case, a very remarkable one, which came through my
own automatic writing ; and in case people should assert that these things
are borne in upon my mind by the persons with whom I may be associated,
I may remark that this experience came when I was alone. It is prefaced
by a facsimile signature. The lady, Mrs. Dalton, stated that she died at
Peachley, having lived at Cheltenham most of her life. In answer to the
question where Peachley was, she said that it was near to Bournemouth.
She oddly described herself as the wife of a brother of Dr. Speer's, and.
when I thought that this would not do she explained that it was a ' brother
in the art of healing.' She gave her husband's name as W. Dalton—since
verified—and said that she died on February 2nd, 1872. The ' 2 " was so
badly made that I enquired, ' 72 or '73? ' The reply was '72,' which was
accurate. We were also told that this was one of the cases in which the
controlling spirit brought persons for the sake of giving proof of identity.
" Again, Mary Hall came on March 29th, 1874, and wrote in a curious,
shaky hand automatically : ' I have been with you and have watched you.—
Mary Hall. ' I could make nothing of the signature, and, therefore, could
not possibly identify the individual in question. ' Mary ' being so badly
written, I inquired if it were not ' Alice.' Then the signature came in
varied form, and I made out 'Mary Hall.' I said: ' I don't know you ;
what brings you ? ' The answer, more carefully written, began : ' I am
permitted to manifest,' and then the power being so weak, no more was
written for a moment. I said, being occupied with a desire for identity :
' Where did you live and die ? ' 'I lived near you, at Oxford Villa,
Alexandra-road. I paased December 13th, 1872.' I said : ' I am afraid I
can't read it ' (the writing being such that it was now extremely hard to
decipher it). On this the writing changed, and there came a friend who
usually controls when any one finds it difficult to do so. He said : ' She
says truly ; she passed near here, and is attracted to you from the neigh
bourhood to the circle. She passed at the age of 91, and has been resting
from her earthly toils.' Somewhat surprised, I enquired: 'Has she been
sleeping all this time ? ' for I did not remember that in the spirit-world there
is no time. ' Yes,' the answer came, ' she was full of years when she passed
away. She lived most of her earth-life at Yarnton, near Oxford. She
has rested one year and three months of your time ; she rested from
suffering. '
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. SI
"This being was absolutely and wholly unknown to me. I enquired,
and found that Mrs. Hall had lived and died, at the age stated, at the
address given.
"1 find it hard to put together all the evidence I have which makes me
believe in the return of departed human beings to this life. If they
continue to live, I should expect them to continue to return—for that which
makes the reality of a spirit would almost certainly bring him back to the
sphere of his interests. I do not understand a spirit going to the planet
Mars, where he has no ties, but I do understand his coming back here.
"Out of a profusion of cases here is one of a different kind. In the year
1880, one Thursday afternoon (date unknown), Dr. and Mrs. Speer and I
had dined together, and the party included a lady who had been visiting a
connexion of Dr. Speer's family in that spring. There she had seen, and
been much attracted to, a lovely little girl about seven months old. The child
used to be brought in after dinner, and the lady in question grew very fond
of her. Between the time of leaving her friends and coming to London, the
child passed away. It is important to notice that none of these points had
had ever been mentioned to, or were known by, myself. On the occasion
to which I refer, this lady had risen from her seat and was about to place
herself in another chair, when I suddenly called out, ' Don't sit down on it,
don't sit down on it. Little Baby Timmins.' None of us knew its first name,and
they asked me. I said, ' Marian ; the grandmother has brought it.' I then
suddenly came out of the trance in which I had been, and in my own natural
voice—so different to the voice in which I had been speaking—said, ' Mrs.
Speer, will you have some coffee ? ' quite ignorant of all that had been
passed. We wrote, and then found out a fact unknown to any of us—that
the child's name was Marian. I do not put this forth as a complete piece of
evidence, for the lady may have heard and forgotten the name.—[Note G.]
"Another case. There had come at one of our séances some influence—I
so call it for want of a better name—which had made us all horribly cold.
On December 21st, 1874, I inquired about the séance of the previous
evening, and was told that the coldness was caused by the presence of
certain spirits who had manifested without the knowledge of the Chief
('Imperator '). I made enquiry with regard to certain statements made by
them, saying , ' Can you put the facts down, that I may compare them with
what they said ? ' (It is important to say that I had no conscious memory
of anything that had been said at that seance.) After my question there
was a very long pause, then :—
" ' The mother was Euphemia Matilda Death, and she passed from your
world at Aldershot on November 20th at the age of 22. The little one was
Edith Ellen Death ; she was only fifteen months when she passed away.
Her father's name was William Death, Veterinary Surgeon of the Military
Train. These are the chief facts, we know no more.'
"These facts, utterly unknown to all the circle, were subsequently
verified.
"As evidence from another point of view, I may mention that I have had
repeated cases of signatures which are veritable fac-similes of those used by
the persons in life ; such, for example, are the signatures of Beethoven,
Mozart, and of Swedenborg, in connexion with Judge Edmonds. It is
I
82 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
remarkable that his signature, or rather initials, in my book are those which
he used, and that Swedenborg's signature, a very peculiar one, is a
fac-simile of his known handwriting ; quite unknown, however, to me."—
[Note H.]
"The case which has been considered, on the authority of persons who
think they are best able to judge, as the best evidence ever produced for
spirit-identity is the case of Abraham Florentine recorded in Spirit Identity,
pp. 105-111, Appendix III. :—
" CASE OF ABRAHAM FLORENTINE.
To the Editor of the Spiritualist.
Sir,—In the Spiritualist of December 11th, 1874, you printed a letter
from me, a letter the main portion of which, in view of the information
elicited by it, I will ask you to reproduce.
In the month of August last I was staying with Dr. Speer at Shanklin,
Isle of Wight. We had a number of sittings, and at one of them a spirit
communicated, who gave his name as Abraham Florentine. He said that he
had been concerned in the war of 1812, and that he had lately entered
spirit-life at Brooklyn, U.S.A., on August 5th, at the age of 83
years, 1 month, and seventeen days. We had some difficulty at first in
making out whether the months and days referred to the age or to the
length of his illness ; but he returned on the following evening, and cleared
up the difficulty. The manner in which the communication was made was
most singular. We were seated, three in number, round a heavy loo table,
which two persons could move with difficulty. Instead of the raps to which
we are accustomed, the table commenced to tilt. So eager was the com
municating spirit that the table rose some seconds before the required letter
was arrived at. In order to mark T it would rise, quivering with excite
ment, in a manner perfectly indescribable, about K, and then descend at
T with a thump that shook the floor. This was repeated until the whole
message was complete ; but so eager was the spirit and so impetuous in his
replies, that he bewildered Dr. and Mrs. Speer completely (I was in deep
trance) and caused the process to be prolonged over the whole sitting. If I
may venture a guess, I should say that Abraham Florentine was a good
soldier, a fighting man not nice to meet, and that he retains enough of his
old impetuosity to rejoice at his liberation from the body, which (if I may
guess again) had become a burden to him through a painful illness.
Will the American papers copy, and enable me to verify my facts and
Rosses? M.A. (Oxon).
"Mr. Epes Sargent, to whom I privately communicated the facts of the
case, was kind enough to insert for me a paragraph in the Banner of Light
of December 12th, 1874, embodying the same enquiry. The result was to
elicit what the Banner calls ' one of the most singular and well-attested
evidences of the return of spirit which it has been our good fortune to
chronicle during a long experience. ' The matter may best be stated in the
words used by the writer in the Banner of Light of February 13th, 1875.
It will be observed that a misconception as to the meaning of the words,
'a month and seventeen days,' occurs at first, but this is subsequently
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
cleared up ; though, according to the widow's account, the age should have
been eighty-three years, one month, twenty-seven days. This, however,
does not affect the case of identity. The original enquiry in the Banner
was this, and the result is quoted direct from the newspaper :—
" ' At -a seance in England lately, a spirit communication was received by
means of the tilting of a heavy table. The whole table seemed alive, and
as though it were being disintegrated in the very fibres of the wood. The
gist of the communication was that the spirit was one Abraham Florentine,
who died at Brooklyn, N.Y., August 5th, 1874. Ho said he was in the war
of 1812, and then, after an interval, added, "a month and 17 days." Can
any of our Brooklyn friends inform us whether they ever heard of Abraham
Florentine 1 '
" ' No sooner had that issue of our paper found its way to the public than
we received by due course of mail the following reply, which speaks for
itself. :—
" To the Editor of the ' Banner of Lioht.'
" In the ' Banner ' to-day received here is a paragraph concerning a
spirit who manifested through the medium of a dining-table at some place
in England, and gave the name Abraham Florentine, a soldier in the war of
1812. You make enquiry whether anyone ever heard of Abraham
Florentine. I cannot specifically answer that question ; but having been
engaged some 14 years since in auditing the claims of the soldiers of 1812
in the State of New York, I am yet in possession of the records of all such
who made claims for service in that war. In those records appears the
name of Abraham Florentine, of Brooklyn, N.Y., and a full record of his
service can be obtained in the office of the Adjutant General of the State of
New York, in claim No. 11,518, war of 1812. I think, however, that he
claimed for a longer term of service than that he gave in England, his
allowance being 58 dol.
" Wilson Millar, Claim Agent.
"Washington D.C., December 13th, 1874.
" 'Pursuant to the advice of our legal correspondent, we addressed a
letter to the Adjutant-General, S.N.Y. , asking for the facts, without,
however, giving any reason for our request, and received the following
courteous reply :—
"General Head-quarters, State of New York,
" Adjutant-General's Office, Albany, January 25th, 1875.
"Sirs,—In reply to your communication, dated January 22nd, I have
to furnish you the following information from the records of this office :—
Abraham Florentine, private in Captain Nicole's Company 1st Regiment
New York Militia, Colonel Dodge, volunteered at New York on or about
September 2nd, 1814 ; served three months, and was honourably discharged.
He received Land Warrant, No. 63,395, for 40 acres. The above is taken
from the soldier's sworn statement, and not from official records.—Very
respectfully,
"Franklin Townsend,
" Colby and Rich, " Adjutant-General.
"No. 9, Montgomery-place, Boston.
i 2
84 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
" 'Those who are acquainted, through experience as investigators, with
the workings of the Spiritualistic circle will bear in mind that the correct
giving of dates is ever a matter of difficulty on the part of the returning
intelligence, and, therefore, the slight discrepancy existing between the
length of service given by the spirit Florentine and that embodied in
the record is easily explainable. [This is a misconception. The one month,
seventeen days, refers to age, not to length of service.—W.S.M.] But
the main facts are established. Here is a spirit who manifests under the
most peculiar circumstances, and in the most forcible manner, to a circle in
a foreign land, whose members are all strangers to the fact that such a being
as himself ever trod the planet; a member of the circle asks through an
English paper that proof (if any exists in America) may be given him as to
the verity of said spirit's assertions, and the same enquiry reaches us by a
private letter; we then call upon the public for information concerning one
of whom we have never before heard. We receive in reply—from a legal
gentleman in Washington, whose acquaintance we have never had the
pleasure of making—the information which leads us to address the Adjutant
General of the State of New York (who is also a total stranger to us), and
are assured from data existing at his office that such a soldier did serve
in the war of 1812 as claimed. The theory of collusion is untenable here,
as the several parties who have given in the testimony are strangers to
each other. The chain of evidence is complete. Let those who think they
can explain this occurrence on any other hypothesis than that maintained
by the Spiritual philosophy make the attempt. When that statement
appeared, my friend, Dr. Crowell, was kind enough to take steps to obtain
additional verification from Florentine's widow. I append his letter
published in the " Banner" of February 20th, 1875:—
"To the Editor of the 'Banner of Light.'
"Sir,—Upon reading in the 'Banner' of the 13th inst. the article headed
'Abraham Florentine: Verification of his Message,' I examined my 'Brook
lyn Directory,' and there found the name of Abraham Florentine, with the
address 119, Kosciusko-street. Being at the moment disengaged, and in
terested in pursuing the subject, I at once sought the street and number
indicated, and my application at the door was met by an elderly lady, of
whom I inquired whether Mr. Abraham Florentine resided there. The
reply was : ' He did reside here, but is dead now.' "
Q. May I inquire whether you are Mrs. Florentine, his widow ?
A. I am.
" Upon my here remarking that I would be pleased to obtain some in
formation about her late husband, she invited me to a seat in the parlour,
and our conversation was then resumed.
Q. May I ask when he died ?
A. Last August.
Q. At what time in the month 1
A. On the 5th.
Q. What was his age at time of decease 1
A. Eighty-three.
Q. Had he passed his eighty-third year ?
A. Yes; his eighty-third birthday was on the previous 8th of June.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 85
Q. Was he engaged in any war !
A. Yes; in the war of 1812.
Q. Was he naturally active and self-reliant, or the reverse ?
A. He had a will of his own, and was rather impetuous.
Q. Was his last illness of long or short duration, and did he suffer much I
A. He was confined to his bed for a year or more, and suffered a good deal.
' ' I have here given the questions and answers in their relative order and
in their exact words from notes taken at the time. During a slight pause
following the last answer, Mrs. Florentine, who appeared to be a very
respectable lady of about sixty-five years of age and of American birth, in
quired my object in asking these questions, when I read Ul her the article in
the 'Banner,' which evidently puzzled, though it interested her, and I then
entered into a full explanation of its purport, greatly to her surprise. She
then fully endorsed every line of it, and I left, thanking her and promising,
at her request, to send her a copy of the last number of your journal.
" It will be observed that while the spirit of Mr. Florentine states
his age to have been eighty-three years, one month, seventeen days, accord
ing to his widow's account it should be twenty-seven days; but this dis
crepancy is hardly worthy of notice, as either he or she may here be equally
mistaken. As the case stood before this additional confirmation of its truth
was obtained, it certainly was a remarkable verification of a spirit message;
but as now presented it appears to me the evidence is conclusive.
"I would add that I have some acquaintance with ' M.A. (Oxon ),' the
gentleman in London who applied in the SpiritiudM for information of
Abraham Florentine ; and I can assure your readers that he occupies a very
high literary position, and his character is a guarantee against collusion and
deception, and I take pleasure in contributing to establish the identity of
the communicating spirit.
" Yours truly,
"Eugene Crowell, M.D.
"Brooklyn, N.Y., February 15th, 1875."
"To me, personally, it is extremely interesting to find my queries
verified by facts. I never doubted that the case would turn out, as so many
others have done, to be true; but the interesting point of observation to me
was as to the correctness of the deductions I drew from the singular way in
which the communication was made. The vehemence of the tilts and
knocks, the (to us) entirely novel mode of communicating, and the evident
earnestness of the spirit, and its eagerness in trying to 'have its say,'
were very striking. Doubtless, what will strike your readers more is the
singularly conclusive nature of the evidence respecting the actual return of
the departed. Most undoubtedly none of us had ever heard of Abraham
Florentine, nor had any of us friends in America who could have given us
news of what went on there, nor, if we had, could they have mentioned to
us a fact in which we should have felt no interest. As a plain matter of
truth, I repeat that both name and facts were entirely unknown to us. And
this is one among many instances in my own experience which I hope
to gather up and record in its place.
"M.A. (Oxon.)
" March 10th, 1875.
86 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
"In conclusion, I may remark that this case has received the valuable
imprimatur of the Society for Psychical Research."—[Note J.]
"One of the cases which are on quite a different plane of evidence I may
record thus : on May 13th, 1876, Mr. C. C. Massey, Mr. H. J. Wood
and I went to try for a spirit photograph at Hudson's. We had previously
tried unsuccessfully, eight plates having been exposed in vain. On this
occasion five failures succeeded one another; then came a plate which
represented me sitting alone, and showing behind me a tall figure, that of a
friend whom I recognised at once. He had taken his life under melancholy
circumstances eight months before, and I had not heard of him since. But
immediately before going to Hudson's I had met and talked with his sister,
who was passing through London. Our conversation had been much con
cerned with him. During the experiment I had heard a spirit-voice, telling
me that it was successful, and also the name of the spirit whose image was
to appear on the plate. There is a sequel to this story. The stigmatic
mark on my brow, reproducing the cut on W. B.'s head made in his suicidal
act, appeared on the anniversary of his death. (This I do not detail here.)—
[For this case see Section E.—F.W.H.M.]
"But perhaps one of the most remarkable cases that I have ever had
is that of the Bishop of Winchester (Wilberforce, previously Bishop of
Oxford), who first of all came to me when I was alone, and afterwards
controlled me during one of our seances, speaking in a voice wholly unlike
mine, and very like his own. He wrote through my hand, and signed his
communication with the fac-simile of his own signature. Perhaps that
is an elaborate mystification ? If it be so, it has at any rate the merit
of being elaborate ! And I know nobody, or rather no spirit in or out of a
body, to whom it would be worth while to take such an amount of trouble
with such very unpromising results.
" I will now proceed to quote the case in fuller detail. On July 21st,
1873, the Bishop of Winchester first came to our seances, although he had
been to me when I was alone on the previous evening. On December 6th he
came again and controlled me, speaking in a voice which was very like his
and unlike mine. In answer to a question as to who was controlling, the
reply came, ' Samuel Wilberforce ; you have wished for evidence of the
departed. I, Samuel Wilberforce, died. I have come back. I live, the
same man, the same spirit. It is strange, strange, very strange to come
back again, and I find it difficult to speak. Another time it will be easier.'
The spirit then described his passage into life as instantaneous, without
pain ; a sudden waking into life. He said that with all his shortcomings,
and they were many, he could still look back on his earth-life as a life
of useful work, honestly done. He gave his blessing to the circle, and
then departed.
" On July 24th, 1873, the Bishop wrote through my hand automatically.
He was introduced by ' Imperator,' who said : ' A friend is with you who is
able to communicate. You will know who has been near you.' My hand
then wrote „ , + g 0xQn .
God guard you, dear friend.
It is well
+ S. O..
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. s7
" I said : ' How very extraordinary ! But how am I to know that it
is . It is all so extraordinary. How did the same pen write this 1 It
certainly is the very fac-simile of his writing. Can it be possible that he is
here now ? Can he write again ? '
" ' No, friend,' replied ' Imperator,' ' he cannot remain, nor can he write
again now. He came at my request to give you a test. We wish to do
what we can.'
"'But,' I said, 'this is no test. I am just as far from knowing his
identity as I am yours. '
" ' He reminds you of the last Sunday you spoke with him in Oxford ;
how he preached at the opening of the new organ for the praise of the
Supreme at the Church of Carfax in the morning ; how he discoursed before
the University in the afternoon ; and how in the evening he gathered his
work-people round him at Cuddesdon, and spoke to them of the love of
their God. '
" ' Yes,' I replied, ' and the last sermon -was far the best. Yes, that is
true. Can you tell me the subjects of the other sermons ? ' "
"'Yes, friend, the sermon before the University of Oxford was from
the words of John as touching the abiding Spirit. " He dwelleth with you
and shall be in you." xiv. 17. In the morning discourse the imperfect
views which the orthodox hold of heaven were developed from the picture
of John the Seer, in the Apocalypse. "They rest not day and night,
saving, Holy, Holy, Holy." Rev. iv. 8.'
" ' That is true ; but I do not remember the University sermon.'
" 'Friend, you heard it not, being overcome with sleep. But you have
it among the published sermons of your friend ; p. 157 ; you will find it.'
" 'Yes, that is indeed true, and I remember it well. I was very sleepy,
and the Bishop joked about it afterwards.'
" Then comes a further communication.
'"A friend will speak with you through us.' [Then in a handwriting
resembling Bishop Wilberforce's.] 'S. O.—Peace be with you. List and
heed.'
" ' Our friend has not yet acquired the power of writing with ease. He
has not been able to return to earth since the day on which he wrote for
you. He came then at my request and by my aid. Now he tells you of his
experiences in our spirit land. Though the manner of the separation between
the spirit and body was rude and sudden, still the spirit woke to con
sciousness far sooner than is usual. The spirit of our friend had lived
even in earth-life much amid the realities of the hereafter. It had medi
tated on its own translation, and had realised the change. So that when it
came it was less unexpected, even though sudden. He was wise therein.
But I will allow him to speak in his own words ' :—
" ' When my spirit awoke to consciousness of the eternal life and its
surroundings, I found myself in company with bright and blessed angels,
the ministers to me of the abounding mercy of my God. The shock that
severed me from earth had been so sudden that at first I was not conscious
that I was in the world of spirits. But my dear father made himself known
and convinced me that I was indeed alive and amongst the ranks of the
shining ones. With him was my dear mother, and they were joined after by
88 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
the pure spirit of Keble, and philanthropic souls who delight to gather
around him who on earth was a chief amongst men in philanthropy and
deeds of love. By them I was conducted to the home where my guardians
rest. From them I learn that which is requisite for me, and am taught
to put aside much that I once thought of vital moment. Ah ! how easily
does the spirit put away the opinions of earth to which it so fondly clung !
Through my guardians I received the request that I would put myself into
communication with you. It was conveyed to me through your presiding
spirit, who now writes for me. [Not quite so. Imperator very rarely
wrote, and never at this time.] I complied with joy, and am now
pleased beyond measure that I can touch the plane where so many dear
to me still live ; though, alas! alas! I cannot reach them. They know not.
and will not learn as yet. Since I left the earth I have been occupied
in learning my work, and in preparing myself for the life of progress to
which my being is now devoted. Already under the guidance of my
guardians I have passed through the first sphere where are gathered those
who are bound to earth by the affections, or are unable to rise as yet. There
I saw some whom I had known in the body, and learned from them and
from others much that 1 needed to know. My work will be of a similar
sort till I reach my appointed sphere. I have come to give you this brief
word of comfort and consolation. Be of good cheer.'
" ' One has so much to ask. Are the spheres like this world 1 '
" ' In every way similar. It is only the change of condition that makes
the difference. Flowers and fruits and pleasant landscapes and animals and
birds are with us as with you. Only the material conditions are changed.
We do not crave for food as you ; nor do we kill to live. Matter, in your
sense, is done with, and we have no need of sustenance save that which we
can draw in with the air we breathe. Nor are we impeded in our move
ments by matter as you are. We move freely and by volition. I learn by
degrees, and as a new-born babe, to accustom myself to the new conditions
of my being.'
" ' Are things real to you ? '
" ' Quite, and very beautiful.'
"'You must not detain our friend now,' said 'Imperator,' 'and you
yourself have done more than you ought to attempt. God, the All Wise,
the All Loving, guard you. I. S. D.'
" And now, passing by more cases than I have quoted, and not dealing
with the evidence as an advocate might, I am content to leave it for the
jury. It means something—will you tell me what it does mean 1"
Note A.—Bishop Wilson. I have verified these facts from Stowell's
" Life of Bishop Wilson," a book which Mr. Moses might perhaps have
met with in the Isle of Man. But the facts are scattered about and
could hardly have been picked up even by the subliminal memory
without going through the book. The names of the two children who
died in infancy (called here Thomas and Alice) are not to be found
in Stowell's Life; but I do not know how they could be verified.
This is, of course, a drawback to messages from historical personages.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
It is difficult to find facts not easily accessible beforehand, and yet
verifiable afterwards ; and the objections common to all " historical
controls" inevitably apply to this one also.
Notk B.— Rosamira Lancaster. We have verified this death from
an announcement in the Daily Telegraph, of January 15th, 1874, of
course published long before the name was given by raps at the seance.
It is therefore quite possible that the name should have lx.en unwittingly
seen by Mr. Moses, and here reproduced from his subliminal memory.
If the case stood alone it would be reasonable thus to explain it.
Where, however, as with Mr. Moses, there is much evidence to the
identity of returning spirits, which no subliminal memory would
explain, I think that that hypothesis need hardly be invoked even in
cases where it might d la rigueur seem sufficient. See entry for
February 28th, 1874, in Section A.
Note C.—Henry Le Mesurier. Here, again, no facts were given
which were previously unknown to Mr. Moses. The case, however, is
made more interesting by a fact not mentioned in Mr. Moses'
summary;—viz., that this spirit had already made his presence known
to Mr. Moses through automatic writing before he manifested during
Mr. Moses' trance in his seance-room. I give an extract from the diary
describing this. The sentence, " I have proved that you were right
and I was wrong," refers to conversations with regard to man's sur
vival of death.
A. "I see my mistake now, I hope to rest soon. I knew nothing of this
in the clays of my earth life. But now my senses are quickened I shall rest
and know hereafter. For the present I am desirous only to make myself
known to you."
Q. Who are you ?
A. "Henry Le Mesurier. You know me."
Q. Why do you come to me 1 What brings you ?
A "I am impelled, I know not why. Bless me and pray, so I shall rest."
Q. Surely I will. But you do not need prayer !
A. "Yes, yes, yes. Pray, pray, pray. I shall sleep now if you will."
Q, If I will ? Surely you are wrong.
A " You will aid me, I would say. I am not unhappy, but I want rest,
and I am compelled to come here first. Pray, pray, pray."
Q. Do you seriously want to go to sleep ?
A. "Oh, yes. Sleep."
Q. But I don't believe you are Le Mesurier.
A. "You are faithless and unbelieving. We never allow any spirit to
manifest who is not here. We help your friend."
Q. Do you guarantee him ?
A. " We help him to make himself manifest. You may trust him and us. "
Q. I will do anything I can.
90 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
A. " He will speak himself. Pray, and he will rest even as others. Sleep,
I want and long for rest. I would that I had known before of this power of
communication. Oh, the multitudesthat wait ! But I must cease. I am
not permitted further. The Lord keep you."
Q. Can you recall any incident of your life known to me ?
A. "I once, in ungoverned rage, knocked you down: and bitterly re
gretted my fault."
Q. I remember. It was a very small matter.
A. "Farewell, my time is short. God guard and guide you."
H. Le M.
Q. What possessed Le. M. to come and write last night 1
A. " He was anxious and we permitted him. It will quiet him, and he
will rest in peace. He requires sleep."
Q. Do all spirits sleep on entering the next world ?
A. "Not all, but many require rest, and remain in peaceful repose, tended
by angel guards, until the spirit wakes naturally to its new life. This is so
with your friend Sunshine. She is peacefully sleeping and renewing her
life. Her time of rest is still prolonged, but the end approaches though not
yet. We shall inform you when she wakes."
Note D.—There is an interesting point with regard to the Christian
names of these Jones children ; the upshot being that a doubt of my
own as to the completeness of the verification made of these names at
the time has led to a pretty clear demonstration that the names could
not have been obtained by any ordinary means. Reference to Mr.
Moses' account will show that Mrs. Watts (deceased wife of Mr. Alaric
A. Watts, Mr. Moses' executor) asked Mrs. Leaf (deceased aunt of my
colleague, Walter Leaf, Litt.D.) as to these Christian names, and
Mrs. Leaf seems at once to have replied. "The names were the same,"
is Mr. Moses' comment. But how could Mrs. Leaf know 1 She was not
likely to have in her possession a baptismal register, or other full
statement of the elaborate Christian names of these three young
children of "the relative of an acquaintance." I can feel little doubt
that what Mrs. Leaf really possessed and showed to Mrs. Watts was
an entry in the Pall Mall Gazette (seen also by us) of the death of the
children, in which the initials of the Christian names were given,
corresponding to those of the names rapped out at the seance, to
which entry Mr. Moses refers as verification. I suspected, there
fore, that Mr. Moses' phrase was so far inaccurate that it assumed
that the whole names were the same because the initials were
so. Personal reference to Mr. Watts and Mrs. Speer showed that
they had no distinct recollection which would conflict with this view.
I therefore desired Mr. G. A. Smith to look up the matter, and his two
memoranda subjoined will show (1) that there was some little difficulty
in getting at the information at all ; (2) that the information given at
the seance was probably more accurate than the official record.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 91
Jones Children.
"In May. 1893, we were informed at Somerset House that certificates of
death of civilians in India were not kept there, and that application must be
made to the Deputy-Registrar in India. Application was therefore made to
this official, and after a delay of more than three mouths, during which time
we wrote a reminder, we were informed that fees for searches in the registers
had to be ' paid beforehand,' and a scale of charges was sent. The sum of
fifteen shillings and postage was therefore mailed, and, in course of time,
another communication came to the effect that the registers for 1873 and
1874 were in London, and could be inspected at the India Office, the fees
being returned. Permission was at once obtained to inspect the registers at
Whitehall ; and by the middle of December we were able, for the sum of
three shillings, to obtain the desired information."
December 20(A, 1893.
" I have to-day made search through the Burial Certificates at the India
Office, Whitehall, taking the following notes about the Jones children.
"Bertie Henry D'Ogly Jones, died at Umballa, aged l£ years, on the
31st December, 1873. Croup and acute bronchitis. Son of W. C. Nigel
Jones (of the Government Telegraph Department) and Constance Mary, his
wife.
" Edward George Nigel Jones, aged 2\ years, died at the same place on
January 3rd, 1874, of aldama of the glottis supervening on tonsilitis.
"Archie William Cholawndeley Jones, three weeks old, died at the same
place on January 5th, 1874. Spasm of the glottis.
" [Note : the spelling of the third Christian name in the register is exactly
as I have written it. The official in charge of the registers agreed that it
was clearly written so ; but there can be little doubt as to the name really
being Cholmondeley.'] "
Now this official report contains two certain errors and one probable
error.
(1) Aldama for CEdema.
(2) Cholawndeley for Cholmondeley.
(3) D'Ogly for D'Oly.
(2) As to this name there was (Mrs. Speer tells me) confusion in the
spelling at the seance. They knew that they had not got it all right,
but put down Cholmely.
For the benefit of foreign readers it must be said that the old
English name Cholmondeley is pronounced Chumley.
It seems to me obvious that in the official record aw has been
substituted by error of copyist, who did not know the name Cholmon
deley, for on. And in the seance it seems as though they had got no
trror in any letter, but an omission, of ond and an e.
(3) As between D'Ogly and D'Oly I have no evidence ; and I
should be glad either of a direct statement as to the child's name, or
of such indirect evidence as may result from a proof that either name
92 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
is otherwise known. I am inclined meantime to believe that D'Oly
is correct.
Note E. —Further information about this suicide was given by
entry February 23, 1874. [It is remarkable that "Miss X.", then a
child, was prevented by a monition (as she informs me) from entering
the street where the traces of this incident were still visible.]
February 23rd, 1874.
Q. I very much wish to communicate with Imperator.
[A long pause.]
A. "Whatever communication you hold must be brief. You are unfit to
commune now."
Q. That spirit who communicated at Mrs. Gregory's.
A. " He was what he said. It surprises us much that he should have been
able to attach himself to you. It was owing to your being near the place
where he met his bodily death. Do not direct your mind strongly to the
subject lest he vex you."
Q. What does he want 1 Can I help him 1
A. " He was wretched and sought help in ignorance. Prayer will aid
him."
Q. Well, now, how comes it that he woke at once, and Sunshine sleeps
still?
A. "He has not yet slept. It will be well if he gets repose which will
enable him to progress hereafter. Should he not do so he will remain
an earth-bound spirit for long. "
Q. Then rest is really a step to progress ?
A. "It is so. He will repose if prayer avail. Of this we will discourse
hereafter. We endeavoured to control last night in vain. A new Egyptian
spirit came and wrote for you ; but it is unintelligible. Cease, the power
goes. Farewell."
" 1 1 : S : D.
" x Theophilus."
February 24th, 1874.
Q. I have much to ask. You say that sleep is in some way conducive to
progress.
A. "Yes, it would be so in the case of such a sudden severance of bodily
existence as that now in your mind. It is to be desired that the poor soul
may rest and not haunt the sphere of vice in which his earth-life was spent.
Should the guardian be able to lull the soul to sleep it will be well. Other
wise it will but haunt the scenes of its former vicious habits. It is better
that you do not direct your mind to that spirit. He has passed beyond your
sphere now."
Q. Is the spirit unharmed by such a ghastly mutilation as that 1
A. " The mutilation of the body harms not the spirit. The spirit body is
not to be harmed by injury to the body of earth otherwise than by the shock.
And the very shock might stir it rudely into action, and excite it rather than
lull it into quiescence.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 93
"You are not now in a condition which enables us to go far into the,
subject. You have far from recovered your spiritual tone as yet."
Q. Then that spirit haunted the place of its departure ?
A. " It is usually so that a spirit which has so rudely been severed from
the body would hover near even for a long time after."
Q. How did it come to pitch on me 1
A. " You passed by, and being in a highly sensitive condition the
disturbed spirit would naturally be attracted to your sphere, even as iron is
attracted to a powerful magnet. Moreover, when he came near he would be
enabled to discern you by the aura which surrounds you and which is visible to
the spirit eye. Light and attraction would both enable him to recognise a
channel of communication which he longed for. You have been told before
that an aura surrounds all material objects, and that aura in the case of a
medium is recognisable afar off by spirit eyes."
Q. Can you tell me what that aura is ?
A. "The magnetic aura which surrounds your body and enables spirits
to gain access to you and to use the atmosphere for manifesting. It is more
highly charged with the force which we use and so is known to us. The
mediumistic aura to spirit gaze is of golden hue. The sympathetic tint is
crimson, the colour of the affections—the tint of the learned and powerful
agent for the development of truth is blue, the colour of the intellect. The
spirit who seeks for a medium is attracted by the mysterious force, to you
mysterious, yet the force of sympathy which is all powerful with us.
"Attraction and repulsion, sympathy and antipathy, are known in a
degree to all, in the highest degree to the most sensitive.
" This is, as you know, the cause of the instantaneous feelings which dart
into the mind on another being brought into the reach of your aura. It
expands or contracts, attracts or repels, accordingly as it is in harmony or
discord with the aura brought in contact with it. All spirits know this,
though all do not profoundly understand it. Some, as the suicide in
question, would act by intuition and subject to magnetic attraction. Such
gravitate to a sympathetic as iron to a magnet. Hence it is that the highly
developed are more open to attack from the grosser spirits."
Q. Then to spirit eye, the aura declares the character ?
A. "To the more developed and progressed it does so, and hence the
concealment is not possible in our spheres. The spirit carries its character
impressed on the very atmosphere it breathes. This is a law of our being."
Q. Very beautiful, but very awful !
A. " Nay, friend, not so : but a great safeguard, seeing that we know we
are open to the gaze and the knowledge of all. It is well that it should be
so. We pause."
Note G.—Baby Timmins. Mrs. Speer has described to me this,
incident, which is remarkable as the only observed case where Mr.
Moses had a sudden access of unconsciousness during ordinary life,
although he himself mentions others.
Note H.—Euphemia Death. The seance at which this spirit
appeared and at which Mr. Percival, Miss Percival (now Mrs. Garratt),
94 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
and Miss Birkett were present, is described by Mrs. Garratt in a letter
in my possession, and also, concordantly and at greater length, by
Miss Birkett, whose account I have subjoined.
December 21st, 1874.
"Exquisite scents of several kinds repeatedly brought round to each
sitter. The fairy bells were heard clearly and beautifully ; and on Dr. Speer
asking for scales, the ascending and descending scales were clearly played, also
arpeggio chords. The medium was controlled by various spirits, who
declined to give their names ; and the whole of the manifestations during the
evening were interrupted and broken up by the attempts to communicate of
two spirits who gave the name of Death, but were unable to tell the
particulars they wished, until helped by Grocyn, who acted as interpreter,
and repeated upon his lyre the facts he gained from them with difficulty.
The spirits said they had passed away within two or three weeks ; that they
were mother and child ; the mother's name, Euphemia Matilda Death,
aged 22, the child Ellen, aged 20 months ; that the death was sudden and
under painful circumstances ; that E. M. D. was the wife of a veterinary
surgeon at Aldershot ; and that she died on November 20th ; the child, it
was thought, on the 4th of November. The medium had previously
described the spirits, who stood close to him, as a young woman and young
child ; the latter standing, but supported by the mother. The medium
seemed to suffer from their presence, and complained of their intense cold.
Imperator controlled for a few minutes, saying that in consequence of the
anxiety to speak on the part of these young spirits he could not control the
medium, but would leave him, to allow them to make their communication.
That they came for help to get rid of the earth-influence which still clung to
them ; and that this process caused the feeling of cold to the medium and
circle. That it was easy to understand how good was obtained by the spirit
in such a case, because of the sympathy existing between all living creatures,
which bound all creation together. Regarding sudden death, Imperator also
said that a suddenly painful and premature death caused much injury and
distress to the spirit. He wished it, however, to be understood that an
instantaneous death, when the spirit is ready and matured, is in no way dis
advantageous.
' ' Later the same night the spirit of Euphemia M. Death returned to
Mr. Moses to correct some slight errors in her statement. The child's name
was Edith Ellen, and she was 15 months old. She died in great pain from
an accident, and the mother died suddenly.
" After enquiry and search, a Woolwich paper was obtained, which con
firmed the foregoing statement in every particular, and added that the child
Edith Death died from the effect of a fall into scalding water."
Mr. Moses had a further account of this visit, as follows :—
December 2nd, 1874.
Q. I wish to ask about the séance last night. It was a very singular one
as we were all so cold.
A. " The coldness was by the presence of the spirits who manifested.
It was done without the Chief's knowledge. We did not know that he would
be able to control, and the spirits were anxious."
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 95
Q. Why did they come 1
A. "They were desirous and it was so planned. They are not in any way
connected with us or you."
Q. Do you know if their story is true ?
A. "It was rightly given, save that an error was made in one Ixunt
through difficulty of controlling. "
Q They followed me home and altered that point and added somewhat.
Can you put down the facts so that I may compare them ) I have no
remembrance of them except one name.
A. ' ' We can procure them if you wait. But we do not know. There is
no necessity."
[After a long pause.]
"The mother was Euphemia Matilda Death, and she passed from your
world at Aldershot, on the twentieth day of November, at the age of 22.
The little one -was Edith Ellen Death. She was only 15 months old when
she passed away. Her father's name was William Death, Veterinary Surgeon
of the Military Train. These are the chief facts. We know no more.
The Chief considered it well to cease the control, lest you should be annoyed
by them.
" t R."
In the Registrar's list we find :—
" Euphemia Matilda Death, died at South Camp, Aldershot, November
21st, 1874, of ' valve disease of heart,' age 22. Edith Ellen Death, infant of
above, died at the same place, on November 4th, 1874, of ' congestion of the
brain 6 days,' age 1 year 3 months."
The discrepancy of a day in date of death is not unusual in case of
death at night ; especially from heart disease.
" Congestion of brain " might well follow upon an accident such as
was here described.
Principal Spirits claimed as coMmcnicatino with Mr. Moses.
C.—Spirits mentioned in " The Identity of Spirit."
1 A. P. Kirkland 17 Archie William Cholmondeley
.2 J. B. Callister Jones
3 T. J. Stainton 18 Suicide under steam-roller
4 Catharine Pauline Speer 19 Charlotte Buckworth
5 Emily C. C. 20 Beethoven
6 Cecilia Feilden SI Mrs. Dalton
7 Henry Spratley 22 Mary Hall
8 Grandmother 2:j Marian Timmins (baby)
9 George Eves 24 Euphemia Death
10 Augustus Eves 25 Edith Ellen Death
11 Emma Eves 26 Judge Edmonds
12 Bishop Wilson 27 Swedenborg
l'i Rosamira Lancaster 28 Abraham Florentine
14 Henry Le Mesurier 29 W. B.—(Suicide)
15 Bertie Henry D'Oly Jones 30 Samuel Wilberforce
16 Edward George Nigel Jones
96 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
D.—Other Evidential Communications.
31 "Blanche Abercromby" 35
32 Miss Green 36
33 Fanny Westoby 37
34 Louis Napoleon 38
Mr. Rowbotham
President Garfield
Dr. Stanhope Speer
Rector (clairvoyance ?)
Section D.—Other Evidential Communications.
It will be convenient to prefix to this section a conspectus of the
principal alleged spirits whose communications are in any way
evidential. Some thirty of these have been already mentioned by
Mr. Moses in the tractate just quoted ; but a few more cases remain
which it seems desirable to print.
31.—The first case which I shall quote under this section is in
some ways the most remarkable of all, from the series of chances which
have been needful in order to establish its veracity. The spirit in
question is that of a lady known to me, whom Mr. Moses had met, I
believe, once only, and whom I shall call Blanche Abercromby. The
publication of the true name was forbidden by the spirit herself, for a
reason which was at once obvious to me when I read the case, but
which was not, so far as I can tell, fully known to Mr. Moses. The
lady's son, whom I have since consulted, supports the prohibition ; and
I have consequently changed the name and omitted the dates.
This lady died on a Sunday afternoon, about twenty years ago, at
a country house about 200 miles from London. Her death, which was
regarded as an event of public interest, was at once telegraphed to
London, and appeared in Monday's Times ; but, of course, on Sunday
evening no one in London, save the Press and perhaps the immediate
family, was cognisant of the fact. It will be seen that on that evening,
near midnight, a communication, purporting to come from her,was made
to Mr. Moses at his secluded lodgings in the north of London. The
identity was some days later corroborated by a few lines purporting to
come directly from her, and to be in her handwriting. There is no reason
to suppose that Mr. Moses had ever seen this handwriting. His one
known meeting with this lady and her husband had been at a seance—
not, of course, of his own—where he had been offended by the strongly
expressed disbelief of the husband in the possibility of any such
phenomena.
On receiving these messages Mr. Moses seems to have mentioned
them to no one, and simply gummed down the pages in his M.S. book,
marking the book outside " Private Matter." The book when placed
in my hands was still thus gummed down, although Mrs. Speer was
cognisant of the communication. I opened the pages (as instructed by
the executors), and was surprised to find a brief letter which, though
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 07
containing no definite facts, was entirely characteristic of the Blanche
Abercromby whom I had known. But although I had received letters
from her in life, I had no recollection of her handwriting. I happened
to know a son of hers sufficiently well to be able to ask his aid—aid
which, I may add, he would have been most unlikely to afford to a
stranger. He lent me a letter for comparison. The strong resem
blance was at once obvious, but the A of the surname was made in
the letter in a way quite different from that adopted in the automatic
script. The son then allowed me to study a long series of letters,
reaching down till almost the date of her death. From these it
appeared that during the last year of her life she had taken to writing
the A (as her husband had always done) in the way in which it was
written in the automatic script.
The resemblance of handwriting appeared both to the son and to
myself to be incontestable; but as we desired an experienced opinion he
allowed me to submit the note-book and two letters to Dr. Hodgson.
Readers of these Proceedings (Part IX., Vol. III.) may remember that
Dr. Hodgson succeeded in tracing the authorship of the " Koot Hoomi "
letters to Madame. Blavatsky and to Damodar, by evidence based on a
minute analysis of handwriting. As regards the present matter, Dr.
Hodgson reports as follows :—
5, Boylston Place,
Boston, September 11<A, 1893.
"I have compared the writing numbered 123 in the note-book of Mr.
Stainton Moses, with epistles of January 4th, 18—, and September 19th,
18—, written by B.A. The note-book writing bears many minor resem
blances to that of the epistles, and there are also several minor differences
in the formations of some of the letters, judging at least from the two
epistles submitted to me ; but the resemblances are more characteristic than
the differences. In addition, there are several striking peculiarities common
to the epistles and the note-book writing, which appear to be especially
emphasised in the latter. The note-book writing suggests that its author
was attempting to reproduce the B.A. writing by recalling to memory its
chief peculiarities, and not by copying from specimens of the B.A. writing.
The signature especially in the note-book writing is characteristically like
an imitation from memory of B.A. 's signature. I have no doubt whatever
that the person who wrote the note-book writing intended to reproduce the
writing of B.A."
Richard Hodgson.
The chances necessary to secure a verification of this case were more
complex than can here be fully explained. This lady, who was quite
alien to these researches, had been dead about twenty years when her
posthumous letter was discovered in Mr. Moses' private note book by
one of the very few surviving persons who had both known her well
enough to recognise the characteristic quality of the message, and were
98 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
also sufficiently interested in spirit identity to get the handwritings
compared and the case recorded.
The entries in the M.S. books will now be quoted. The communica
tions began with some obscure drawings, apparently representing the
flight of a bird.
A. " It is spirit who has but just quitted the body. Blanche Abercromby
in the flesh. I have brought her. No more. M."
Q. Do you mean 1
No reply. Sunday night about midnight. The information is unknown
to me.
Monday morning.
Q. I wish for information about last night. Is that true 1 Was it
Mentor ?
A. " Yes, good friend, it was Mentor, who took pity on a spirit that was
desirous to reverse former errors. She desires us to say so. She was ever
an enquiring spirit, and was called suddenly from your earth. She will rest
anon. One more proof has been now given of continuity of existence. Be
thankful and meditate with prayer. Seek not more now, but cease. We do
not wish you to ask any questions now. "
" t I : S : D.
[A week later.] " x R*ctor-"
Q. Can you write for me now 1
A. " Yes, the chief is here."
Q. How was it that spirit [Blanche Abercromby's] came to me ?
A. "The mind was directed to the subject, and being active, it projected
itself to you. Moreover, we were glad to be able to afford you another
proof of our desire to do what is in our power to bring home to you evidence
of the truth of what we say."
Q. Is it correct to say that the direction of thought causes the spirit to be
present ?
A. "In some cases it is so. Great activity of spirit, coupled with anxiety
to discover truth an to seek into the hidden causes of things, continue to
make it possible for a spirit to manifest. Moreover, direction of thought
gives what you would call direction or locality to the thought. By that we
mean that the instinctive tendency of the desire or thought causes a
possibility of objective manifestation. Then by the help of those who, like
ourselves, are skilled in managing the elements, manifestation becomes
possible. This would not have been possible in this case, only that we took
advantage of what would have passed unnoticed in order to work out
another proof of the reality of our mission. It is necessary that there
should be a combination of circumstances before such a manifestation can be
possible. And that combination is rare. Hence the infrequency of such
events, and the difficulty we have in arranging them : especially when
anxiety enters into the matter, as in the case of a friend whose presence is
earnestly desired. It might well be that so ready a proof as this might not
occur again."
Q. Then a combination of favourable circumstances aided you Will the
spirit rest, or does it not require it ?
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. no
A. " We do not know the destiny of that spirit. It will pass out of our
control. Circumstances enabled us to use its presence : but that presence
will not be maintained."
Q. If direction of thought causes motion. I should have thought it would
be so with our friends and that they would therefore be more likely to
come.
A. " It is not that alone. Nor is it so with all. All cannot come to earth.
And not in all cases does volition or thought cause union of souls. Many
other adjuncts are necessary before such can be. Material obstacles may
prevent, and the guardians may oppose. We are not able to pursue the
subject now, seeing that we write with difficulty. At another time we may
resume. Cease for the present and do not seek further."
" t I : S : D. Rector."
Q On reading over what has been written, I am struck with this. You
said once that conditions had been interfered with by the projection of
antagonistic thought from a distance. And now it seems that a spirit
released from its body is carried whither its thoughts turn. It seems then
that thought is motion : and that effect can lle produced without the actual
presence, as we understand it, of a spirit in the room. If this be so, it
seems to follow that manifestations may be performed objectively.or at least
directed, without the actual presence of the spirit who purports to make
them. Is this so ever and is this so in our own circle ?
A. " It is so frequently in this way. Great spirits operate through inferior
agencies without themselves being present as you understand the term.
This is very frequent."
A few days later, Mr. Moses says :—
Q. The spirit B. A. began by drawing. Was it herself ?
A. " With assistance. She could not write. One day if she is able to
return again, she will be more able to express her thoughts."
Q. I remember that poor man who was killed by the steam-roller drew.
A. " Do not dwell on him lest you be vexed. He was notable to oxpress
himself. And even as the undeveloped human mind betakes itself to
symbols to supplement defect of language : so do spirits seek to illustrate
that which they cannot utter. So the Holy Maid [of Kent] drew when
she appeared. She has now progressed, and is progressing, having cast
aside the weight that hindered her."
Q. I am glad. Will she come back ?
A. " It may be, but not now."
[A few days later.]
A. "A spirit who has before communicated will write for you herself.
She will then leave you, having given the evidence that is required."
"I should much like to speak more with you, but it is not permitted.
You have sacred truth. I know but little yet. I have much, much to learn.
" Blanche Abercromby.
" It is like my writing as evidence to you."
In the next case the identity is shown by vision and internal voice.
k 2
100 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
32.—Miss Green (Spirit Identity, pp. 90-91).
' ' The first of my cases occurred on August 18th inst. I had returned
from a three days' absence to the house of friends with whom I was staying.
When I left, a friend of the lady of the house was unwell. During my
absence she died very suddenly. When I entered the room I saw her
standing beside her friend—the lady whom I was visiting. The dis
embodied phantom was as clear to my gaze as the living person to whom I
was talking. 'So Miss is dead,' I said, forgetting that the good lady
could not see the ghostly visitant. 'Yes.' ' And buried,' I continued, for
the words sounded in my ear. ' Yes ; but how did you know ? ' Then I
remembered, and turned the subject, for my hostess would have fainted in
horror had she known how near to her her friend was. Strange ! a few
hours ago and she would sit by the bedside and clasp the clammy hand, and
kiss the lips on which death already had set the seal of silence : yet she
would have screamed at the friend whose self was by her, minus only that
old and shabby body which it had cast off. That is what ' 1 believe in the
resurrection of the body ' has brought us to. I took careful note of the
dress, mien, and face of the ghost—I had never seen the original in the
body—and, as occasion served, I elicited from my hostess a description,
which greatly tallied with my vision, except in one point. The ghost wore
a brooch of peculiar make, which I could get no description of. On the
following day, however, my hostess came back from her friend's house with
the identical ornament in her hand. Her friend had left it to her as a
memento."
The " hostess " here was Mrs. Moses, mother of W. S. M. I have
compared this account with the contemporary record, and Mr. Moses
gave me a concordant verbal account.
33.—Fanny Westoby. This excellent case was described by Mr.
Moses to Edmund Gurney and myself, while it was still fresh, on our
first meeting with him, May 9th, 1874.
On the evening of April 8th, 1874, while at Bedford with his father
and mother, Mr. Moses, who had been receiving messages about ancient
religions during the day, began to ask a question, " I should 1 ,"
.when a meaningless drawing was made in place of intended words.
Q. What is all that ? And why was I stopped 1
A. " A spirit wishes to communicate, and we are commanded to permit
her. She is not able to write with ease, but will communicate through us.
Her name is Fanny Westoby. Do you know the name ? "
Q. I do not remember.
A. "Your mother knows her well. She is a cousin of hers. She passed
from your earth May 15th last."
Q. Was she married 1
A. " Yes, her maiden name was Kirkham."
Q. Fanny Kirkham. Yes, I have a dim remembrance. She used to
live at Markby.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 101
A. " She says that she was born in Alford, in the house now occupied
by Sam Stevenson. She then lived at Markby, and, having married, at
Belchford. She passed away at Horncastle, at 63 years of age. You do not
remember her, when, in the year 1845, you went to see her at Markby.
Her mother, Elizabeth Kirkham, was then just released from a lingering
illness, and your mother had gone to condole with her cousin. You were
taken round the farm, and rode on a goat (she is anxious on this point), and
she threw you in sport into a heap of wheat which was being threshed. The
result was that you were severely bitten by the harvest bug. She is very
anxious that you should recall this to your mother. "
Q. I will. But is it wise ?
A. "You will not be able to induce her to search into this matter, but
you may satisfy yourself that what is said is true."
Q. Has she any message 1
A. " She says, ' I lost much of my opportunity for progress through the
gratification of bodily appetite which cast me back. My course of progress
is yet to come. I find my present life not very different from yours. I am
nearly the same. I wish I could influence Mary, but 1 can't get near her.' "
Q. Can she assure me that she is F. W. ?
A. " She can give you no further evidence. Stay, ask your father about
Donnington and the trap-door."
Q. 1 have not the least idea what she means. All the better. I will ask.
Any more ? Is she happy ?
A. " She is as happy as may be in her present state."
Q. How did she find me out 1
A. " She came by chance, hovering near her friend [i.e., Mrs. Moses], and
discovered that she could communicate. She will return now."
Q. Can I help her ?
A. " Yes, pray. She and all of us are helped when you devote your
talents willingly to aid us."
Q. What do you mean 1
A. "In advocating and advancing our mission with care and judgment.
Then we are permeated with joy. May the Supreme bless you." [Book
[I have enquired of my mother and find the particulars given are exactly
true. She wonders how I remember things that occurred when I was only
5 years old ! I have not ventured to say how I got the information,
believing that it would be unwise and useless. My father I can get nothing
out of about the trap-door. He either does not remember or will not say.]
[April 9th, 1874. My father has remembered this incident. A trap-door
led on to the roof in the house he occupied at Donnington. The house was
double roofed, and a good view could be had from it. F. K. on a visit
wanted to go there, and got fixed half-way amid great laughter.
VIH., pp. 78-83.]
" x Rector.
Elevation of double roof.]
[We have verified Mrs. Westoby's death in the Register of Deaths.
—F.W.H.M.].
102 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
34.—For I.ouis Napoleon see Part A, January 5th, 1874. I have a
concordant contemporary M.S. account from Mrs. Speer.
35.—Mr. Rowbotham. In Spirit Identity, pp. 94-5, Mr. Moses
relates how, when walking with a friend and discussing spiritualism, he
took refuge from rain in an inn, [the " Britannia," Belsize Road, as he
informed me].
"One day we were walking together and rain came on. To avoid a
wetting we took refuge in a billiard-room near at hand, and whiled away the
rainy hour with a game, discussing all the while. The proprietor was the
only other person in the room, and he showed some interest in what I was
saying. He asked some questions, and seemed rather frightened than
otherwise. He was a wine merchant, and gave me his card as I left, asking
for custom. From time to time I did purchase some goods from him, anil
on perhaps half a dozen occasions exchanged some words with him. He
always asked me about Spiritualism. The last time I saw him he was ill,
and said that he was in the doctor's hands, but was mending fast. I saw
no more of him, until sitting alone, as my habit is, in my study in the
early morning, he appeared to my clairvoyant eye. I was writing about
transcorporeal action of spirit, the double, and such phenomena, and I
wondered much at this apparition. I never thought for a moment that it
was anything but a double of the living man. For a time he could not
speak ; but when he managed to make me hear, he saluted me as he would
have done in the flesh, calling me Mr. , a name which he heard my
friend use while we were together in the billiard-room. It was a name used
by him, and known, I am sure, to no one else except two or three
acquaintances. Yet this spirit used it quite naturally, as he would have
done in the flesh, though he knew my real name well enough. I gradually
inquired what brought him, and learned that he had ' come to see me.' He
was dead—had died some two months ago at a place and address which he
gave me. He likewise told me his full name, the disease which carried him
off, and the date of his death. All these facts were entirely outside of my
knowledge. He died at a watering-place far away. His full name, disease
(a peculiar one), and death, were utterly unknown to me. I and some
friends verified them all, and found them literally exact. Yet he seemed to
have no special reason for coming, unless it was to add his stone to the
cairn of evidence. He did not even say that he had discovered the truth of
my faith, and had come to confirm it. He came, and he went, and, like
many another who has done the same, I have seen him no more."
Mr. Moses told me that this Mr. Rowbotham died at Torquay, of
diabetes. I have not verified this decease, as the^year is not given.
36.—President Garfield. This is a communication made, not by the
departed spirit itself, but by friends.
30, St. Peter's, Bedford.
September 20th, 1881, 10 a.m.—This morning, on awaking at 5.54 a.m.,
I was aware of a spirit who desired to communicate. It turned out to be
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 103
Mentor, with him B. Franklin, [Epes] Sargent and others. They told me
iu effect " The President is gone. We were with him to the last. He
died suddenly, and all our efforts to keep him were unavailing. We
laboured hard, for his life was of incalculable value to our country. He
would have done more to rescue it from shame than any one now left." I
asked why it had been deemed necessary to come to me with the news. It
was replied that a period of great activity in the spirit world was now being
renewed, and that my sympathies with him and with his work, and their
own knowledge of me, had inclined them to bring the news. The Daily
Seics contained no tidings, though the bulletins were bad. It seemed on
the contrary that the news of the previous night which they contained was
-a little more favourable. I walked down to the station fooling convinced
that the news would come, but up to 11.30 a.m. could not hear of it.
About 12.37 I again went and found that a rumour had reached Bedford.
The evening papers—Globe and Echo—which I purchased at 4.30 p.m.
gave me the first mundane information of the event. It is now stated that
he died at 10.50 p.m. on the 19th (yesterday). That in English time is
3.50 a.m. of this day, 20th, or two hours before I woke and got the message.
I have since learned that the death was sudden, and the remarkable
fluctuations are not inconsistent with efforts such as described.
September 21st.—The latest reports fix 10.35 not 10.50 p.m. [or 3.36
a. m. English time] as the exact time of death. I forgot to say that very
strong disapprobation was expressed of the administration of defiurinated
bullock's blood which had been resorted to at the last. This seems to have
been especially repulsive, as crude blood is apparently universally connected
with the lowest and most undeveloped form of spirit-life, for which it has a
great attraction. A vessel of fresh blood was a means of ensuring the
presence of powerful spirits at magical incantations and seances. In the
seance recorded on p. 70 this was insisted on, a propos of the slaughter of a
bullock which I had been led to witness. It was said that undeveloped
spirits rejoiced in the bloodshed, and found their great attraction wherever
it was to be found.
37.—Dr. Speer.
Dr. Speer died February 9th, 1889, and shortly after his death Mr.
Moses received from him a remarkable proof of identity, of which he
wrote me an account at the time. I much regret that I have mislaid
that letter; but Mrs. Speer has kindly written for me [1894] an, of course,
independent account, which I recognise as completely accordant with
that which Mr. Moses had given me. On receiving Mr. Moses' account,
I wrote to him suggesting that the pet name might have been used by
Dr. Speer in speaking to his wife during one of Mr. Moses' trances, and
might thus have been subconsciously heard by Mr. Moses. He repudi
ated—indeed almost resented—this suggestion; and on talking to Mrs.
Speer, since Mr. Moses' death, I find her absolutely sure that the nursery
nickname—felt by herself to be absurd in its application to an elderly
lady—had never been used except in complete privacy.
104 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
"The first time my husband made his presence felt to Mr. Moses was
when he was writing about him for Light ; he mentions it in the account.
Several other times he told me he had seen Dr. S. in vision, but he seemed
unable to speak, and if he did Mr. M. forgot what he said, as was often the
case when he came out of the trance state. But I remember one incident
which must have occurred soon after our loss, but I have not the date
of it here. Mr. S. M. came one Sunday to dine with us. He looked
strange and remarked to me, ' I have seen your husband again, and he senc
you a message which I do not understand.' He seemed troubled, and I saw
he was unable to take any dinner. Suddenly he took out his pocket-book
and rapidly wrote something in one of the sheets, tore it out and handed it
to me saying, ' Can you make anything out of this ? ' I saw a message
written ' Tell dearest all's well. ' The word omitted was a pet name
he often called me when alone. I think no one had ever heard it, and I am
quite sure Mr. Moses never had. The name is too absurd to print, as pet
names often are. I took the paper from him and could not help smiling to
see the old familiar pet name again, and felt at once the message must have
come from my husband, and said to Mr. S. M. , ' Oh yes, that is the pet name
Stanhope usedto use when we were alone. I can show it to youin many letters."
I went upstairs and brought several down, all commencing ' My dearest . '
As soon as I had shewn him the letter he looked greatly relieved and was
able to enjoy his dinner. I think he must have feared he was being
deceived. We looked on it at the time as a good test, as I know he had.
never heard the name. My daughter perfectly remembers the incident and
says this account is correct."
I have now quoted the best cases in Mr. Moses' records of
identification of a spirit recently departed. It is in these recent
cases that the evidence is simplest and strongest ; and it will be
observed that they closely resemble similar proofs of identity given in
a long series through Mrs. Piper, and recorded in more sporadic fashion
elsewhere. The communicating spirit seems to be little changed,
and to retain its characteristic interest in survivors and in the things
of earth.
There are also an alleged group of remoter spirits ; but it is
obvious that the evidence to identity which they can give must
generally be less direct and convincing. By the very conditions of
the communication they cannot show commanding intellect, or teach
entirely new truths, since their manifestations are ex hypothesi bmited
by the capacity—not by the previous knowledge—but by the previous.
capacity—of the medium. And if they give facts not consciously-
known to the medium—facts however elaborate—it may still be
suggested that these facts have been subliminally acquired by the
medium through some unconscious passage of the eye over a printed
page, or else that they are clairvoyantly learnt, without the agency of
any but the medium's own mind, though acting in a supernormal
fashion.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 105
This is no merely fanciful hypothesis ; nor is it a hypothesis
derogatory to Mr. Moses' own probity. On the contrary, as will 1*e
presently seen, he himself prominently puts forth the circumstance
(Rector's copying from a closed book) which tells most strongly for
the view that the alleged remote identities may not really be concerned
at all. Nay, the guides themselves expressly state—d propoi of some
brief accounts of musicians said to be interested in Mr. Charlton
Speer—that spirits can refer to books, e.g., their own biographies,
and refresh, their memory thereby. This admission of course leaves us
with nothing more than the word of Imperator to prove that, say,
Robert of Gloucester, or Geoffrey of Monmouth, (who merely give facts
about their own writings), were in reality present. Such guarantee—
sometimes only indirectly implied—was enough for Mr. Moses at the
time ; especially since these remoter spirits came in intermixture with
nearer spirits, whose identity could be better proved. But in a serious
talk with me on the matter in 1 886 he withdrew much of this certainty ;
—saying that in the case of some of the musical spirits especially
he had had no inward sensation of a spirit's presence,—such as he had
had, for instance, in the cases of Miss Green and Mr. Rowbotham, given
alxlve. He repudiated, however, the idea of subconscious memory on
his part of words actually seen by himself ; feeling sure that some of
the facts automatically written had never been beneath his eyes. This
may very well be the case; as he had not, I think, more than a mere
schoolmaster's acquaintance with English literature and history ; not,
indeed, so much as would nowadays be expected from an English master
in a school as good as that where he held a post. I judge this largely
from the " Notes by the Way," which he contributed to Light for many
years: and in which he was certainly not minimising his actual store of
knowledge. But be this as it may, I cannot find in these historical com
munications any provable fact which might not have been drawn from
some fairly accessible printed source. There were certain stanzas from
Lydgate, written by the alleged Zachary Gray, [or Grey,] which Mr.
Percival verified in the British Museum. But these are to be found in
Warton's Etvjlish Poetry ; from which they reproduce (as Prof. Skeat
has kindly pointed out to me) a philological error of Warton's own. It
will be seen below that the power of reading closed books is expressly
attributed to Zachary Grey ; and if he really possessed it he probably
exercised it here ; giving thereby, of course, no particular proof that he
was Zachary Grey rather than any other spirit. On the other hand,
the Holy Maid of Kent makes a statement which, although directly
contradicted by Froude in his History, is almost certainly true. She
says that she was led by " torture " to make her—as she claims untrue
—confession ; and although Froude says that she was not tortured, it
seems plain that she received treatment in prison which led her in a
106 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
few days' space absolutely to change her tone, and give in to her
accusers. " Torture" is not a legal term ; but without any published
contemporary order on the matter there might have been, and pro
bably was, a very sufficient reality. This point also, making, so far
as it goes, in favour of the identity, passed unobserved at the time.
I will now give the account of Rector—one of the alleged remoter
spirits—as to a quotation from a closed and unknown book.
38.—Rector. This spirit is very intimately associated with Mr.
Moses, and habitually writes for Imperator, and for the group of
guides generally. His handwriting comes more and more to resemble
that of Mr. Moses himself. To him, moreover, is attributed the power
of reading in books unknown to Mr. Moses, and of writing out matter
there found through Mr. Moses' hand.
The Reading of Books by Spirits.
Q. Can you read ?
A. "No, friend, I cannot, but Zachary Gray can, and Rector. I am
not able to materialise myself, or to command the elements."
Q. Are either of those spirits here 1
A. " I will bring one by and by. I will send . . . Rector is here."
Q. I am told you can read. Is that so ? Can you read a book 1
A. [Spirit handwriting changed.] " Yes, friend, with difficulty."
Q. Will you write for me the last line of the first book of the ^Eneid ?
A. "Wait. Omnibus erraiUem terris et fluctibus omtas."
[This was right.]
Q. Quite so. But I might have known it. Can you go to the book-case,
take the last book but one on the second shelf, and read me the last
paragraph of the ninety-fourth page ? I have not seen it, and do not even
know its name.
A. "I will curtly prove by a short historical narrative, that popery is a
novelty, and has gradually arisen or grown up since the primitive and pure
time of Christianity, not only since the apostolic age, but even since the
lamentable union of kirk and the state by Constantine."
[The book on examination proved to be a queer one called Roger's
" Antipopopriestian, an attempt to liberate and purify Christianity from
Popery, Politikirkality and Priestrule." The extract given above waa
accurate, but the word " narrative " substituted for "account."]
Q. How came I to pitch upon so appropriate a sentence 1
A. "I know not, my friend. It was by coincidence. The word was
changed by error. I knew it when it was done, but would not change."
Q. How do you read ? You wrote more slowly, and by fits and starts.
A. "I wrote what I remembered, and then I went for more. It is a
special effort to read, and useful only as a test. Your friend was right last
night ; we can read, but only when conditions are very good. We will read
once again, and write and then impress you of the book :—'Pope is the last
great writer of that school of poetry, the poetry of the intellect, or rather
of the intellect mingled with the fancy.' That is truly written. Go and
Tfie Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 107
take the eleventh book on the same shelf. [I took a book called Poetry,
Romance and Rhetoric.] It will open at the page for you. Take it and
read, and recognise our power, and the permission which the great and
good God gives us, to show you of our power over matter. To Him be
glory. Amen."
[The book opened at page 145, and there was the quotation perfectly
true. I had not seen the book before : certainly had no idea of its
contents.] [These books were in Dr. Speer's library.—F.W.H.M.]
It is plain that a power such as this of acquiring and reproducing
fresh knowledge interposes much difficulty in the way of identifying any
alleged spirit by means of his knowledge of the facts of his earth-life.
The spirit " Imperator " claims responsibility for the whole series
of manifestations and should therefore be mentioned here, although
there is no proof of his identity with the historical personage whom
he asserts himself to be. His character, however, claimed and obtained
Mr. Moses' entire confidence. He answers for the identity and
veracity of spirits introduced ; he explains the phenomena, so far as
they are explained ; and he throughout impresses on Mr. Moses his
own teaching.
If such high and sweeping claims were made by any ordinary
writer, we should expect to find much in the course of his writings
which would prove their extravagance. If we ask ourselves how to
disprove Imperator's claims we shall find no very definite answer. We
may indeed suggest that he seems to have reposed more confidence in
the spirits styling themselves Magus than they altogether deserved.
And of course we shall say, with varying degrees of emphasis, that the
teaching which he offers as the highest boon, and which Mr. Moses
accepts as such, is by no means so novel or so illuminating as is some
times implied. But this is only to say that Imperator is not our
appointed guide ; that it is not we who are directly reached by his
exhortation or argument. His utterances, like other human utterances,
fall short of the universality, the permanence, which their author would
fain give them. But in regard to their primary end, the develop
ment of Mr. Moses' own soul, I know not if words of more weight
could have been spoken, or that sturdy and downright spirit led
onwards by any surer way.
We have now briefly surveyed the principal members of the
numerous group of spirits alleged to have communicated with Mr.
Moses in various ways. The facts relating to them have been of a
complex kind, and it will be convenient here to discuss some of the
Questions which they suggest.
1. In the first place let us review the group of communicating
."^ptfits as a whole, and see if we can form any conclusion as to the
108 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
reason why certain spirits, and not others, desired or were able to
indicate their presence.
2. Next let us try to ascertain what degree of presence or influence
is intended to be implied by the various forms of impressional or
physical manifestation,
3. And, lastly, let us consider what proofs of identity should be
asked for, or might conceivably be given, or have actually been given
by the spirits in question.
1. Taken in itself, the list of communicating spirits seems to
consist of names selected almost at random. From various explana
tions given by Imperator, we see that this list may be divided as
follows :—
(a) A group of high spirits, aiming at the advance of knowledge,
and especially of religion, who have been able to discern Mr. Moses'
gifts, and have to some extent themselves trained him for the purpose
required. They have modified his early life : for instance, by prompt
ing him to his period of retirement on Mount Athos, and by keeping
him from wishing to marry. Some of these spirits, however, stand in
very distant relation to Mr. Moses, and their indications of presence
or collaboration are of a purely arbitrary kind.
There are a group of spirits, it is said, belonging to various ages
and countries, who are united by their desire to inform mankind
of their destiny and duties. Each member of this group desires
to show approval when an attempt is made at such communica
tion. They cannot all take an active share, but, while some work
actively, others express sympathy by choosing either a signature,
or some special physical manifestation, to be associated with their
names, even if not actually produced by themselves. This form of
communication is of course not meant to be in itself evidential; it
depends on the confidence reposed in the " control " in charge of the
manifestations ;—much as when letters of encouragement are read
at a public meeting, their genuineness is taken on trust from the
chairman. Even when the handwriting produced, (either automatically
through the medium, or directly, without the intervention of human
hands), resembles that of the deceased person, this, as elsewhere ex
plained, does not in itself prove identity. Well-known signatures
especially may be copied by other spirits.
As soon, however, as it is understood that such messages are not
intended to be evidential, it seems not unnatural that they should
be given thus. It needs no derogation from the dignity of even the
highest spirit to express his sanction of any scheme designed to
convey to " men of goodwill," in fashion however humble and un
assuming, some message of their eternal fate.
The Expetiences of W. Stainton Moses. 10ft
But where identity is absolutely unprovable, as in the case of this
group of "men of old time," it would be futile to discuss the probabilities
on either side. I cannot blame Mr. Moses for his injunction to leave
these spirits—eminent but not Divine—under the mask of the symbolic
titles which they chose to assume. His reverence for Imperator was
of a filial type which led him to desire that although there must be
discussion about the doctrines, there should be none alxmt the actual
personality of the teacher to whom he felt that he owed all that was
best in his own inner life.
(6.) The second group of communicating spirits consists of relatives
and friends of the sensitive, or of other members of the group. This
would seem natural on any hypothesis, and the most curious question
is not as to who is included in the list, but as to who is omitted.
There is no power of summoning any spirit at will. And it seems that
some spirits cannot return ;—either from something in their own con
stitution, or because they are restrained by over-ruling guides from
what might be prejudicial to their progress. During this series of
seances, an intimate friend of all the sitters—mentioned in the M.S.S.
as " Sunshine "—passed away from earth. For her return, or for some
message from her, however slight, Mr. Moses and his friends ask with
a persistency which should surely have produced for them her sem
blance, if the messages had been but the shadow of their desire. Yet
she never manifests her presence in any way ; and the message of the
guides about her is always that she is sleeping ; and that even when
she wakens it will not be thought fit for her to revisit earth.
Somewhat similarly, Mr. Moses' own father manifests only once,
controlling his son's hand to write one short " word of fatherly
greeting," aiid no more.
It may be the case that the world beyond the grave is a world of
moral and emotional affinities, freed from merely casual or spatial
separations. But in communicating across the gulf this is not yet
thus ; and, as on earth itself, the dearest may be inaccessible to us,
while strangers press to our side.
(c.) The third group consists, in fact, of undesired intruders;—
spirits mainly of low type and recently discarnated,—-sometimes by
their own violent act. These intrusions were occasionally of value as
evidence ;—as in the case of the man killed by a steam-roller, given
above. But the guides discourage the appearance of such spirits, even
warning Mr. Moses to avoid thinking of them, lest they thereby gain
strength to infest him. As a rule, indeed, they effected no injury
beyond a day or two's restlessness or fatigue. On one occasion only,
when his own mind was greatly troubled by a gross wrong which had
been done to him, and which he found it very hard to forgive, he
seemed to feel a prolonged and injurious presence of bad spirits taking
110 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
pleasure in his angry thoughts, and fanning his resentment. But ft is
of importance to note that on the whole the occasional inconveniences
of his sensitivity to spirit-influence were as nothing in his own view
compared with its benefits ; the sense of uplifting and strengthening
which the communion of higher souls often brought to him, and even
their every-day help (as he believed) in getting through his heavy work
without breaking down.
When he spoke to me of these benefits during his lifetime, I
supposed them to be merely subjective ; but I confess that the study of
all this intimate matter has brought me nearer to his point of view ;
presenting me with a picture of a character originally somewhat lack
ing in width and suavity, but essentially honest, resolute and manly,
and controlled and disciplined into progress by spirits higher and wiser
than himself.
(d.) A fourth and very important group consists of spirits willingly
admitted by the guides, as contributing proofs of identity while
satisfying their own desire to communicate. Such were Abraham
Florentine and " Blanche Abercromby,"—the first of them apparently
wishing to reach his wife with his message;—the second—with a touch
entirely characteristic of that spirit as known to myself on earth—
impelled by the mere desire to confess that she had been wrong ;—
to atone instantly and unreservedly for the injustice of her previous
distrust.
It is in cases of quite recent departure (I repeat), like the two here
mentioned, that the evidence for identity seems to me strongest. In
remoter cases, although facts unknown to the automatist may be
produced, the hypothesis of personating spirits, never absolutely re
futable, will have more plausibility than it has with the sudden eager
messages as from those who have just touched another shore.
2. And this brings us to our second question ;—as to what degree
or kind of presence or influence is intended to be asserted, or can by
us be accepted, in messages taken as genuinely in some way emanating
from their alleged authors. In such an enquiry we are bound to begin
by ridding our minds as far as we can of the conventional notion of a
personality consisting of one centre of consciouness only, operating in
one place alone. Even for the incarnated spirit such a conception has
elsewhere lxeen shown to be in various ways too narrow. Even the
constraining prison of the body, with its one (though partially dupli
cated) brain, through which all consciousness must find expression,
cannot prevent the co-existence of more than one stratum of conscious
ness, nor the temporary transposition of what seems the main centre
of consciousness to a distance from the body. When the centripetal
force of the body, so to call it, is withdrawn, wo must expect a still
greater possibility of multiple centres of consciousness, of dissociations
The Experiences of IP. Stainton Moses. Ill
of the elements of personality. I have elsewhere compared " haunt-
ings " to " dreams of the dead ; " to some vague persistent thoughts,
that is to say, which may exist in the disembodied spirit, alongside of
its fuller and truer existence, and may objectify themselves to terrestrial
perception as though representing the entire departed soul.
Mr. Moses' experiences thijpw some light on this view. In the first
place, in the case of the higher spirits, it is expressly asserted that they
can act upon him from a distance, and can attend to many matters at
the same time. And, in the second place, spirits of ordinary type, not
neccesarily low or "earth-bound," are represented as recognising the
presence of friends, and especially of a sensitive, near their graves.
Grotesquely enough, this was a source of real annoyance to Mr. Moses
every Easter. It so chanced that Mrs. Moses' house at Bedford, to
which her attentive son paid frequent visits, stands near a Moravian
churchyard. The Moravians, it seems, are in the habit of singing over
the graves of their dead at six o'clock every Easter morning, and Mr
Moses' bedroom used to be filled with the noise of spirits agitated by
the ceremony1. It is not implied, however, that all these spirits
were present in such a manner that they were no longer conscious and
active elsewhere.
And we may conceive that the whole concern with earth of a spirit
long departed may occupy as small a part of his total being as the
remaining link with the body occupies in the being of a recently
departed soul. The evidential inference from all this will be that we
cannot use written communications of remote spirits as evidence of any
thing like what we on earth should term actual presence.
3. These preliminary considerations apply to all the messages, of
whatever nature their actual content may be. We must now briefly
go through the points which make a message primd facie evidential,
which indicate, that is to say, that it actually does come in some way
from its alleged source. This question, however, has been so often
discussed in these Proceedings that a brief recapitulation of the main
stages of evidential quality in messages given by automatic writing or
by trance-utterances is all that will be needed here.
1. Evidentially lowest comes the class of messages which is by far
the most common ; messages, namely, in which, although some special
identity may be claimed, all the facts given have been consciously
1 I may mention here that Mr. Moses told me that he often saw spirits standing
»bout in his bedroom while he undressed. Ue said that he was too tired to talk to
them, and that if notlooked at orencouraged they disappeared. It may be remembered
that Mr. Rowbotham (case 35) minifested in this way to Mr. Moses when alone. It
is not unlikely that there would have been more recognitions of this kind had Mr.
Moses sought them with more zeal ; but as soon he had become convinced as to
identity, his own interest reverted mainly to Imperator's teachings.
112 The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.
known to the automatist. Here we may well suppose that his own
personality alone is concerned, and that the messages have a subliminal,
but not an external source.
2. Next above these come messages containing facts likely to be
known to the alleged spirit, and not consciously known to the automa
tist ; but which facts may nevertheless have sometime been noted by
the automatist, even unwittingly, and may have thus obtained lodge
ment in his subliminal memory.
3. Next come facts which can be proved,—with such varying
degrees of certainty as such negative proof allows,—never to have
been in any way known to the automatist ; but which nevertheless
are easily to be found in books ; so that they may have been learnt
clairvoyantly by the automatist himself, or learnt and communicated
to him by some mind other than that of the alleged spirit.
4. Above this again would come that class of experimental mes
sages, or posthumous letters, of which we have as yet only one good
(although rather remote) example ; where the departed person has
before death arranged some special test,—some fact or sentence known
only to himself, which he is to transmit after death, if possible, as a
token of his return. Every serious student of these problems, I think,
should do this ;—should write down, for instance, some sentence,—so
significant to himself that he may hope to remember it afto' the shock
of death ;—should seal the letter and entrust it to safe keeping, and
then should seek in the next world any method open to him of com
municating the test sentence to survivors.1
5. Thus much for the various kinds of verbal messages, which can
be kept and analysed at leisure. We must now turn to evidence of a
different and not precisely comparable kind. In point of fact it is not
these inferences from written matter which have commonly been most
efficacious in compelling the survivor's belief in the reality of the
friend's return. Whether logically or no, it is not so much the written
message that he trusts, but some phantom of face and voice that he
knew so well. It is this familiar convincing presence,—e«ro 8e 0cT«Xoy
auru,—on which the percipient has always insisted, since Achilles
strove in vain to embrace Patroclus' shade.
How far such a phantasm is in fact a proof of any real action on the
part of the spirit thus recognised is a problem which has been dealt
with already in various papers on Phantasms of the Dead. The
upshot of our evidence to my mind is that although the apparition
of a departed person cannot per se rank as evidence of his presence,
1 Dr. Hodgson and I now hold a good many of such test-letters ; and we shall of
course be glad to receive others, under such various conditions as the senders may
impose.
The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses. 113
yet this is not a shape which purely hallucinatory phantasms seem often
to assume : and if there be any corroborative evidence, as, fur instance,
_ writing which claims to come from the same person, the chance that he
is really operative is considerable. In Mr. Moses' case almost all the
figures which he saw brought with them some corroboration by writing,
trance-utterance, gesture-messages (as where a figure makes signs of
assent or dissent), or raps.
6. And this brings us to a class of case3 largely represented in Mr.
Moses' series, where writings professing to come from a certain spirit
are supported by physical phenomena of which that spirit claims also
to be the author. Whether such a line of proof can ever be made
logically complete or no, one can imagine many cases where it would
be practically convincing to almost all minds. Materialisations of
hands, or direct writing in the script of the departed, have much
of actual cogency ; and these methods, with others like them, are, as
we have seen, employed by Mr. Moses' " controls " in their efforts to
establish their own identities. Physical phenomena in themselves,
indeed, carry no proof of an intelligence outside that of the sensitive
himself. Trance utterance, or automatic script, also, as we have seen,
falls short in itself of proving the action of an external mind. When
Grocyn, for instance, answers questions by making musical sounds
(heard by all present) in the air, it is not inconceivable that the
sensitive's own dream should clothe itself in Grocyn's imagined per
sonality, and should then exteriorise itself in objective phenomena
corresponding to that self-suggestion. Where all is so obscure, such
possibilities should be duly noted ; but the hypothesis seems too far
fetched to be permanently acceptable.
But the questions now opening before us involve too much of
discussion and of theory to fall suitably within this series of items of
definite evidence. In these two papers I have given, I think, a
sufficiently full account of Mr. Moses' physical phenomena, explaining
my reasons for believing in their genuineness ; and also a sufficiently
full account of communications professing to proceed,—and, as I
believe, for the most part really proceeding,—from spirits who have
recently quitted this earthly life. Much more matter remains; matter
which seems to me to help us towards a more coherent view as to
the nature of relations between disembodied spirits and spirits still
inhabiting this tabernacle of flesh. At some future date, should my
readers desire it, I shall hope to recount some more of Mr. Moses'
phenomena, and to discuss the directions in which, taken in con
nection with other phenomena of like nature, they seem, however
dimly and obscurely, to direct our onward view.
l
114 "Miss X"
IV.
ON THE APPARENT SOURCES OF
SUBLIMINAL MESSAGES.
By "Miss X."
[For the benefit of any readers who may not be familiar with
previous volumes of our Proceedings, it is well to state that " Miss X."
is the lady who contributed a paper on Recent Experiments in Crystal-
Vision, printed in Vol. V., p. 486, and a paper entitled A Record of
Telepathic and other Experiences in Vol. VI., p. 358.—H. Sidgwick.]
The aim of the following pages is solely that of presenting a
familiar subject from a less familiar point of view. Much has already
been written on the question of the Sources of Messages ; many
theories propounded which it is not my concern either to establish
or confute ; many experiences quoted, to which it is not in my power
to add much that is new, or anything that is startling. I simply
make an attempt to examine a few simple experiences from the point
of view of the Subject, rather than from that, more familiar, of the
spectator or the experimenter.
My own experiences, from which I propose to draw, have in them
little of the marvellous ; they are all of a most ordinary nature ; they
claim no merit but that of being carefully observed and recorded. For
that very reason—because they present no special difficulties, because
they are for the most part, as compared with others which have'been
described to us, mere commonplace —they are perhaps the better
material for elementary enquiry.
I have attempted in several instances, mainly of so trivial a nature
as not to absorb one's conscious attention at the moment of their
occurrence, to analyse the impression which they created, to observe
the nature of the sensations they aroused, and to measure the degree
and kind of the emotion or train of thought, if any, by which they
were accompanied.
That this analysis is far from satisfactory, I am quite as conscious
as the severest 'critic could wish ; this is the case for many reasons,
some of them sufficiently obvious. The analysis of sensation is pro
verbially difficult at all times, and the analysis of sensation in some
degree apart from one's ordinary experience, apart largely from that
of others, having little analogy with other strata of one's conscious
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 115
ness, little help from antecedent probability and ordinary a priori
deduction, has in it perhaps some elements of especial perplexity.
I propose to deal with such phenomena as are purely spontaneous,
for, directly the question of experiment is introduced, we introduce
also the element of that self-consciousness which I venture to think
fatally destructive of just those conditions which it is most useful to
observe. And, just because of this, just because the phenomenon is
in greater or less degree a shock, it is very obvious that we have, at
the outset, the inevitable condition of surprise which, in some sort,
disqualifies the subject for exact observation.
We might compare our position with that of an estate holder who,
with the help of a Divining Rod, has lately discovered a fertile spring
upon his property. A few years ago we were prepared to admit the
possible existence of water somewhere, deep down, far out of sight,
but we were less prepared to admit that there were possibilities of in
some degree commanding a supply by empirical methods. A few hud
brought to us specimens of the precious fluid. Most of us knew people
who had some sort of experience for which they could not account,
but we dismissed the phenomena as so far removed from ordinary
experience as to seem either wholly fortuitous, or mere charlatanry.
The word " fortuitous " we now modify into " spontaneous," recognis
ing that the phenomena are governed by laws, however little known
or understood. In place of professional charlatanry we have now the
results of organised experiment. The Divining Rod has been found
to respond to other than professional manipulation, and systematised
enquiry has become possible. We no longer dispute the existence of the
phenomena. We even classify the methods of their production under
such groupings as "automatism," " telepathy,'' "hypnotic suggestion,"
self-suggestion, and the like. But our classifications sometimes merely
name while powerless to explain the phenomena. We want to go a
step further back, to formulate, if possible, some system which shall
help us to refer effect to cause. And when we remember that our
material, our unit of thought, is not mere inorganic matter or a gas,
a group of animals or plants, but a sentient, thinking human being,
it seems as if our enquiry should have special advantages and facili
ties, in that we are not dependent solely on our own observation—that
the subject of our enquiry can intelligently participate in the experi
ment, can itself observe, analyse, and record.
When considering the various psychological experiments of the
kind now so familiar to us, which aim at classifying and explaining
the impulses and emotions of the patient, one is sometimfs tempted to
ask, as in regard to other forms of vivisection, What is the Subject's
point of view 1 This is the standpoint from which I propose to indicate
not, as yet, a clue to the solution of the problem of the Sources of
l 2
116 "Miss X:
Subliminal Messages, but, rather, a few of the difficulties which beset
us in the attempt.
My friends have often said, " Surely you must have some impres
sion of the nature of the phenomenon while it is passing, whether the
message comes from without or from within, how far it is externalised,
whether'your vision—supposing a vision to be in question—is an exter-
nalisation of your own thought or mental perception; whether it is,
so to speak, an emanation from some mind still in the flesh, or whether
it is some definite message from a discarnate mind 1 "
Such a question, it might seem, should be, by an intelligent
observer, easy of answer.
I confess, however, to feeling great sympathy with those who find
it difficult to analyse sensations of this kind—possibly, even, some im
patience with those who have a pigeon-hole ready prepared and
docketed for the reception of each impression as it arises.
I.—Let me illustrate this point from the very simplest class of
messages with which I am personally familiar, those in which a
message is received, having no obvious corresponding sense im
pression.
One morning, July 20th, 1890, I had spent the whole morning, for
I was recovering from recent illness, lying on a long chair on the
lawn. I could not move without help, and was therefore incapacitated
from going back to the house and forgetting that I had done so, as
might otherwise have been the case. About twelve o'clock a friend
casually calling, came through the drawing-room window into the
garden to talk to me. When she returned to the house about half an
hour later, a book which she had left in the hall was not to be found,
and after a prolonged hunt in every likely place, she, with another
friend, came back to the garden to see whether she could have left it
near me. On hearing their story I at once remarked, " The book lies
on the blue-room bed." The statement seemed wildly improbable, as
the room in question was not in use, and was seldom entered even by
the servants. There, nevertheless, on the bed, the book was found.
Some workmen had come into the house during the morning, bringing
a number of pictures and books belonging to a friend, to be taken care
of for a short time, and these, for safety, had been placed in the dis
used room, the book lying on the hall table having been accidentally
included with the new arrivals.
Now, how is one to explain a circumstance of even this simple
kind ? One can hardly dismiss it as mere " coincidence," for this is
but a specimen of a type of incident which occurs very frequently.
It would be somewhat far-fetched to call it " telepathic," as the book
was unconsciously removed, and we have no reason to suppose that
the workman was aware of having included it among those he was
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 117
carrying. Jfo one in the house had seen its removal. The impression
cannot have been, in any literal sense, clairvoyant, because there
was no conscious picture in my mind. I formed no vision—of a kind
often seen—of the whereabouts of the volume. I had no reason for
the statement. I was not conscious even of forming a yuets. I
can only describe the impulse in some such phrase as " It came into
my head to say "—this, and many other things of a like kind, equally
true, equally improbable, and equally unexpected.
I would group this with another case with which it has some
features in common, though the source of the message is perhaps more
apparent. A very intimate friend had died, and we found a sad
pleasure in reading and discussing the many notices of his life and
work which appeared in newspapers and magazines. One afternoon
his sister, a friend, and myself were speculating as to the probable
authorship of an article containing details of a kind so intimate that
we felt sure the author must be a personal friend. Several names were
suggested and dismissed ; at last one of my friends remarked : "I seem
to have a hazy notion who it ought to be, but I can't get hold of it."
At that moment my eye fell upon the paper in question, and across it
I read in the handwriting of my deceased friend (I do not give the
real name) Henry Roberts—a name which, to the best of my belief, I
never heard before. " That is the man ! " my friend exclaimed—when
our companion interrupted, " What Roberts do you mean ?" " The
Oxford man." "But I don't remember one. Where does he live!"
"I don't know. I don't fancy he belongs to any college." At this point
—again on the paper before me, and again in the handwriting of my
friend—I read (I do not give the real name) Montagu Street.
It so happens that both of my friends are much more familiar
with Oxford than I am, and the street I have called " Montagu " is a
very unimportant one.
The friend who had recognised the name of the man was not able
to say whether my further statement was correct, but the other lady
remarked, " There is a Montagu Street, I know ; but the only man I
can remember living there is one whose name I forget—a great botan
izing man." "That is Roberts," said my friend. " He is a botanist,
and he and my brother were great friends, and so the statement is quite
likely to be true."
Now the crowning mystery of this story is that it wasn't true, and
the article was written by some one quite different ; so, had I accepted
the communication as coming from my deceased friend (which
happily I did not) I should have added one more to the multitude of
cases one constantly hears of—of lying spirits and false messages—
which would have been for me a very new and a very distressing ex
perience indeed.
118 "Miss X."
I find no difficulty in supposing that I received the name, Henry
Roberts, from the mind of my friend who was trying to think of it,
instances of sub-conscious knowledge coming to the surface in the
mind of a second person more readily than in that of the thinker,
being common enough. The " Montagu Street" question is a little
more difficult ; but we may perhaps explain it, either as forgotten
knowledge on the part of the friend who transmitted the name Henry
Roberts, or as a forgotten association with the name Henry Roberts,
on the part of our other friend, who knew the name of the street, and
not that of the man.
In both of the cases quoted two of the friends present were those
who, in former accounts of experiments and observations, have been
referred to as D. and H., and it seems likely that their presence was in
some sense contributory to the experience, though, in the case of the
lost book, their ignorance of its whereabouts was, to their great incon
venience, as complete as my own.
In a former paper I gave some examples of common percipience, or
collective thought-transference, of H. and myself, and speculated as to
whether she or I were to be considered the Agent in such experiences.
A very recent example would seem, at first sight, to suggest that the
message was transmitted through her, though the experience lends itself
also to another interpretation.
On Saturday, January 12th, 1895, about ten o'clock in the morning,
I went into D.'s room and found her writing letters. She happened
almost immediately to be called away, and left saying—" I was just
writing to H. You may as well go on with the letter." Accordingly, I
took up the pen, when " it came into my head " to write, as under other
circumstances it might have " come into my head " to say, that I feared
she had been ill or troubled lately, and I hoped that nothing was wrong.
It so happens that I don't write to H once in six months, and I was
somewhat struck by the nature of this revival of our correspondence,
and added half a page of nonsense and chatter to take the edge off. I
am constantly in the society of her family and friends, I had had a letter
from her husband at Christmas saying that H. was too much occupied
with guests to write, and neither D. nor I had any reason whatever to
suppose that anything distressing had occurred. Later, on the same day,
one of her sisters called, and we naturally asked for the latest news of
H. We were met with the assurance "Oh she's all right ; very busy,"
and I dismissed my fears. The same evening, however, D. received a
letter from H. written early that morning to ask "do you know if any
thing is wrong with K. [a younger sister] 1 I kept hearing her call me in
the night and fear that she is ill,"—the enquiry being made of D. rather
than of her own family because K. is somewhat nervous. During a long
illness some years ago, H, the elder sister, had acted as K.'s nurse, and
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 119
had been accustomed to be frequently aroused during the night, and
to be ready at all hours of the day to obey the call of the invalid.
K., who is now in average health, had, we found, in point of fact been
suffering at the time referred to, and her thoughts had naturally turned
to her former nurse.
The following is H.'s account of the receipt of my enquiry.
February 10th.
" I remember well the letter I received from [D.] dated January 12th.
I am very sorry I destroyed it. The letter in question was begun by [D],
and then the rest of the first page was written by you, in which were eon-
tamed these words in your handwriting, ' [X] is staying here till Monday.
She is quite well, thank you, but what is wrong with you ? ' This letter I
received the following day, Sunday, January 13th. On Saturday, 12th.,
the same day on which you and [D.] wrote yours, I wrote to [D.] telling her
how I had been disturbed on Friday night by hearing K. call out, and
seeing her with a very distressed face."
The following is from the letter to D. to which H. refers.
January 12(A.
" Last night I could not sleep much, and I had been awake along while
when, some time after 4 o'clock I think, I heard, as if it were in the room,
K.'s voice ... I turned and saw her, looking ghastly. I can't get her
face out of my mind; 1 hope she is all right."
Commenting upon the incident under date February 10th, H.
writes :—
" I was much worried about it all day, and mentioned it to my husband
and to Mrs. R., and they both remember it."
There was nothing in my writing which could be called "automatic."
I knew perfectly well what I was going to say, and was equally con
scious of the unreasonableness of the impulse. At the same time though
not under any compulsion to write, I felt, as in many such cases, that
the impulse to write was stronger than the impulse to refrain. As a
mere question of distance, K., who lives a few^mndred yards away, was
more likely to affect me than H., who lives a hundred miles away ; and
yet, unless the whole thing were a mere coincidence, K.'s distress, close
was the exciting cause of a message which reached me from a dis
tant county. It is worth while to mention that, though I have received
many impressions from H., they have all been veridical, as have hers
from me, with the one possible exception that she wrote to D. a few
weeks ago asking whether I had lost a stone out of a pearl ring, when,
in point of fact, I had shortly before lost an amethyst out of another
ring on the same finger. This might have been a chance coincidence,
though it seems the less likely for the fact that, so fax as I know, I never
120 "Mies X."
lost a stone out of a ring before, and H. never, except on that occasion
received the impression of my having lost anything.
I had a curious series of impressions of this kind,—unexternalised—
last September under rather special circumstances.
I had been asked by the owners of a house, reputed to be haunted,
to pay them a visit, in the hope of elucidating the mystery of the alleged
ghost. I had heard the details of the case from a neighbour of theirs,
and beyond the invitation had had no correspondence with them, and
knew absolutely nothing about them, except that they were young
married people with some little children, and were very highly respected.
I had a'ready formed the conclusion that the phenomena were mainly
subjective, and that it was a case for Bell, Book and Candle, and know
ing that the alleged ghost had been the occasion of real distress, I felt
some responsibity for my visit, which I thought would either remove or
emphasize the discomfort of my host and hostess, and of others depen
dent upon them. I was anxious, as far as possible, to earn their con
fidence, to secure such help as might be in the difficult task of uproot
ing, in the course of a day or two's visit from a total stranger, an idea
which had had possession of their minds for over two years. It is
almost the only time when I have really longed for the power of
controlling phenomena, so as to be able to "show off" at will.
I knew, however, that wishing would not help matters, and that I
must await events.
My hostess drove me up from the station and courteously expressed
her sense of the trouble I had taken in coming to so uncanny a house
and among entire strangers. " We all tried guesing what you would be
like," she said, " but it matters much more to you what we are like."
There was my chance, " Perhaps I know," I said, " let me describe your
husband;"--and hardly knowing from one phrase to another what I was
going to say. I sketched a personality which I had certainly not con
sciously conceived, and which had certain marked pecularities,— " very
tall, extremely thin, with low forehead and unusually overhanging brows
and deep set eyes, clean shaven." I quote from memoranda made at
the time. My hostess listened in silentsurprise, and her only comment
was "You must have seen him ! " Next we discussed the house. "Have
you had it ever since you were married?" I asked. "No," she said,
" we first lived at another place a few miles off. We came here two
years ago." "And in the meanwhile you went to New Zealand 1 " I
was impelled to remark. This too proved correct, though I said it with
as little perception of its meaning as if I were pronouncing words in an
unknown language.
Later, when I came downstairs, after changing my dress, I was
introduced to my host, who had, I found, been suitably impressed
by the account of these lucky hits. Something was said of a visitor
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 121
to lunch the following day. " Is her name Clara Stimpson ? " I was
again prompted to enquire. This too proved correct .1
So far my impulses had been impulse merely, without any sense im
pressions. The words " rose to my lips," in a very literal sense. But
when a gentleman present asked me how " Stimpson," not a common
name, was spelt, I had a momentary visualisation. The name is familiar
to me only as that of a certain London tradesman, who spells it Stim-
8on. One of his carts rose before my mind's eye with the letter p
inserted in the name above the s. " With a p," I said confidently, which
was correct.
The next day I was returning alone from a walk, when I met my
host in the carriage drive. "Miss Stimpson is here," he said. "She
knows about what you said last night, and we want to see whether
you can pick her out from the three ladies on the lawn."
I am too slow-sighted to distinguish easily even those with whose
personality I am familiar, and I felt that here again was a case for
self-abandonment. I walked up with perfect confidence to one of the
three (they were all of about the same age and general appearance)
and said, " You are Miss Stimpson," which proved correct. This
however, by itself, would not be of any value, as I had only two
chances of missing.
After that I was reduced to terror lest it should occur to my
new friends to ask awkward questions dangerous to my new found
reputation. I was by no means reassured when I learnt that part of
the programme arranged for me was that I should " tell them their
fortunes ! "
This I declined, but offered to " read their characters." The
power of character-reading is of course simply a result of the habit of
observation, and in four of the cases present I knew, before I began,
that I should find the task easy enough. But I was not prepared to
find myself sketching scenes in their past lives, and I listened with as
little expectation and quite as impersonally, as if the voice speaking
were that of some one else.
It would not be fair to repeat these statements, but all who were
present will bear me out in saying that the facts were all perfectly
correct, and perfectly definite in kind.
I may add, incidentally, that I succeeded in " laying the ghost " so
far that, though the previous manifestations had been very frequent,
nothing has been heard of him since the date of my visit (August 29th
to September 1st, 1894.)
I have long felt that some degree of exaltation is conducive to
experiences of this kind. This of course may he of all degrees and
1 Clara Stimpnon is the real name.
122 Miss X-
varieties, the one necessary condition being, I believe, self-abandon
ment, and self-forgetfulness—whatever the motive. In the present
instance my motive was a very strong one, and I never remember
having so many impressions of the kind, without a single failure, in
the course of so short a time, for all occurred within 24 hours of my
arrival, after which, as I felt that the necessary preliminaries were
achieved, and I had other work to accomplish, nothing more of the
kind happened.
I have sent a copy of the passages in my diary referring to the
above incidents to my host and hostess, with the following note, which
they have signed :—
" The above statements are perfectly true, and, so far as we know, Miss
X. could not have obtained the knowledge she displayed of our private
concerns by any recognised method."
In my diary I find another recent example of this unformulated
impulse to express what has never been consciously a thought.
In this instance I cannot attribute the impulse in any degree to
special interest in the subject concerned, for nothing could be more
futile, more absolutely without importance except merely as a psycho
logical curiosity.
On August 15th last I was staying with my friend, Mrs. T., at a
hotel in Scotland. When I wanted to ring for the maid in the morn
ing, I found that my bell-pull was broken, and there was nothing for
it but to go to the door of my friend's room, and ask her to ring, and
give the necessary order.
Knowing that she was in bed, and the door locked, I intended to
call out, " Will you ring your bell, please," but the words resolved them
selves into, "Who is Frances at Eastbourne 1" "I must be going daft,"
I thought, and when my friend called back, " What 1 What did you
say ? " I succeeded, though with an effort, in telling her of my needs.
It was not till we were creeping up the Caledonian Canal some few
hours later that I had an opportunity of telling her of the ridiculous
incident. " I don't know any Frances, do you 1 " I added. My friend
laughed heartily, and answered, "Well, no, I don't, but I had a letter
yesterday about a Frances, who is going to Eastbourne, in whom I feel
some second-hand interest What sort of a Frances 1 " To my own
surprise I had an answer ready. "A Frances," I said; "an oldish lady
in a cap." " Quite true," said my friend, " I have never seen the lady,
but she must be quite old enough to wear a cap." Mrs. T. confirms
her share of this incident as follows :-—.
"[On] August 15th, as we were going up the Caledonian Canal on the
steamer, Miss X. said to me ' Who is Frances at Eastbourne 1 ' I was very
astonished, as I do not know the Frances in question, but one of my
correspondents a few days previously had told me of her visit to them at
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 123
Eastbourne. When I asked Miss X. for details, she said, ' I know the
Frances is a woman, because of the way the name is spelt, and she is an
oldish lady with a cap.' "
In a later note Mrs. T. adds :—
"The Frances in question is an oldish lady and probably wears a cap."
This sort of thing is almost irritating. It is quite useless, and
not even amusing. If there is only a certain allowance of thought-
transference or clairvoyance or the like, why cannot it be more
usefully expended 1 In my own case I am not even able to deduce any
conclusions. I have expressed all I am conscious of concerning it
when I say—" it came into my head." I believe, too, that I am
justified in adding—"and such as the information is, I always feel
that it is true."
II.—Another group of subliminal messages is that which externa
lises itself in visual form. I find that others, less accustomed than
myself to the receipt of messages from the sub-conscious stratum of
one's mind, find it somewhat difficult to sympathise in my feeling that
this class is less startling, more natural, so to speak, than the group,
in some way more simple, with which I have dealt, so far. There is
always, to me, something weird, something which quickens one's pulses
and excites the kind of physical discomfort known as " feeling a cold
wind," familiar to frequenters of seances, in listening to unfamiliar
statements proceeding from one's own lips, in not knowing what you
may be led, or perhaps driven, to say next.
As I have had occasion to state in previous articles, I habitually
think in terms of sight. Though often congratulated on the possession
of unusual powers of memory, I am absolutely unable to recall any
thing which I cannot visualise. Even numbers when heard only, not
seen, I associate with musical sounds, and these, in turn with combina
tions of colour. Consequently every idea or recollection, consciously
dwelt upon, is visualised, and in many cases, dramatised,—-that is, my
pictures have life and movement. For this reason, a scene conjured
np either in the crystal or, as the professional medium would say, "in
the surroundings " of those about me, has in it none of the disconcert
ing elements of the less externalised impression. It is more in con
formity with my habits—has a greater share in my consciousness ;
moreover it is, except in the rare cases of " collective hallucination,"
my own property, with which I am not obliged to part, except by my
own choice.
And here I should like to say, in the interests of those whom such
of us as " collect cases " are perpetually badgering for evidence, that I
believe the instinct of the subject of such experience is to be silent
about it. I was disposed till lately to regard as a personal peculiarity
124 'Miss X.
the sort of dumbness which strikes one at the moment of its occur
rence. I can go away and write it down—I can talk about it later ;
I can even while it is present make trivial remarks on other topics,
and " keep up " a conversation, but it is obviously easier to say to an
afternoon visitor, " Do you take sugar 1 " or " Won't you have some
more cake?" than, " Don't be startled—but your deceased husband—
or an unknown lady—or a portion of the countenance of some human
being, sex indeterminate," as the case may be, " is looking over your
left shoulder." My visitor might not like it, for one thing ; one has a
guilty sensation of listening at key-holes, for another; for myself I have
always the physical discomfort of being out of breath (a fact which
may suggest more explanations than one), and finally one feels much
as the young man does over his first sonnet (school-exercises not being
counted), which he locks up in his desk for a length of time propor
tionate to the depth of the sentiments which gave it birth.
When, during my late visit to Scotland, I was brought in contact
with more seers in six weeks than in the whole of my previous life
time, I had the opportunity of noting the same conspiracy of silence,
and of seeking to discover its cause. Again and again I came across
stories, which, if true, and I had no reason to doubt them, went to
show that, over and over again, catastrophes might have been averted,
and trouble, greater or less, arrested in its course, if those who saw
visions would have spoken out in time. I quote in illustration one
story which struck us with some indignation, and which we had at first
hand from the principal actor and the principal witness, two young
men working in a quarry not far from Oban. One of the two, the
fifth seer in a direct line in his family, had a brother who was about to
row in a regatta on a loch some miles away. It was arranged that the
quarrymen were to join him, but when the day came for their projected
holiday, the seer declined to go, or to allow his friend to go, but would
give no reason. Later, a telegram came to say that the brother was
drowned. " I knew it," said the seer ; " I knew it was to be so." We
asked why he had not warned his brother against his impending fate.
He seemed to think the very notion profane—an interference with "the
will o' the Lord." We asked why he did not at least tell of his vision,
and allow others to draw their own inferences. That, he said—and we
heard this and the other excuse dozens of times—would never do :
if you did that "ye'd hae nae mair," and indeed we constantly heard
of "telling of the first" as a means of curing oneself of being a seer
against one's will.
I cannot always share the impatience which the psychical
investigator often shows towards the witness who did not relate his
dream or intuition in time to make a good, well-evidenced " case " of
it. The tendency to delay, however interpreted, is one in which I can
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 125
sympathise and I often record an intuition with a secret longing to
anathematise the training which has made my conscience troublesome
on such points.
But to return to the question of visualised impressions, or intuitions,
or transference of thought.
The first example I shall quote is one in support of which I can
bring no direct evidence. Had it occurred lately I could not, in the
nature of things, tell the story at all. Two intimate friends who heard
it a few days after its occurrence, can testify that the story has not
varied in the interval, but that is all in the nature of corroboration
I can offer.
We all, probably, know the sensation on being introduced to any
one who excites our interest or curiosity, of making a conscious effort
to grasp the stranger's individuality—an effort quite different from the
spontaneous sympathy established with a friend. In my own case
this effort is occasionally assisted in a somewhat unusual manner. A
picture will form itself in the background of the stranger, which sug
gests a clue to the problem he presents—some indication of a dominant
factor in his life or experience, the origin of which I find it difficult to
ascertain. Thus :—
I was visiting for the first time at the house of a friend who had
recently married. Her husband I had never met, but all that I had
ever heard led me to expect to find him an agreeable gentleman of good
birth, fortune, and position. We were introduced, and I soon
perceived that he had, at least, the wish to please, and to show hospi
tality to all the guests assembled. However, from the first moment
that I had opportunity to observe him carefully, I was troubled by a
curious and perplexing hallucination. No matter where he happened
to be—at the dinner table, in the conservatory, at the piano—for me
the real background disappeared and a visionary scene succeeded. I
saw the same man in his boyhood—he was in reality very youthful in
appearance—gazing towards me with an expression of abject terror,
his head bowed, his shoulders lifted, his hands raised as if to defend
himself from expected blows.
I discovered afterwards that this scene was one which had really
taken place at a famous public school, when, in consequence of a dis
graceful act of fraud, he was ignominiously expelled, and had to " run
the gauntlet " of his schoolfellows.
Now, how is such a circumstance to be explained 1 My own feeling
is that the picture was symbolic ; that this was, if one may so speak,
a precipitated specimen of the man's moral atmosphere—" a taste of
his quality "—and my impression is strengthened by the fact that the
distrust the incident inspired in my mind has been amply justified
by subsequent very disastrous events. Such a scene as this seems
126 "Miss X.
analogous to those suggested by " trace "—the picture called up by a
psychometric impression rather than one directly telepathic. It would
be far-fetched to suppose that the scene—which had occurred at least
ten years before, and was probably not a uniquely disgraceful incident
—was literally present in the mind of its chief actor.
It was by the light of this very circumstance that I interpreted,
perhaps wrongly, for quite a different interpretation also suggests
itself, a later circumstance which occurred little more than a year ago.
In October, 1S93, I happened one day to call on a friend who was
engaged, I was told, with a visitor from the north. Though the visitor
was unknown to me, I recognised his name as that of a correspondent
of whom I remembered nothing definite except that he had spoken of
himself as the pupil of a certain professor, whose lectures in'philosophy
and logic I had myself attended.
By some accident I remained standing for a minute or two before
he was introduced to me, and had thus an opportunity of observing
him, which I did with some interest. I have already explained more
than once that I am so strong a visualiser that my impressions, when
at all vivid, constantly assume an objective form, and I see them before
me as a picture, often allegorical. On this occasion I saw, standing
near Mr. H., the tall figure of a, Hindoo whose dress and bearing I
observed carefully, and whose appearance I took to be a symbolic pre
sentation of the thought which passed through my mind, " You
don't look much like philosophy, not a Kantian or Hegelian anyway,
mystic possibly—meditative and receptive—not observant or critical.
Perhaps you have played with theosophy."
When I moved across the room for conversation, the figure disap
peared, but some time later, when our talk happened to turn on the
sources of messages, I mentioned the circumstance, and Mr. H. seemed
deeply interested.
On November 23rd I received a letter from Mr. H. reminding me
of the incident, and asking me (saying that he would, later, explain
his reasons) to answer the following questions :—
1. When and where did you see the vision ?
2. To what nationality did he belong ?
3. How was he dressed, and in what colour 1
4. Did he wear anything on his head ?
5. What colour was his hair ?
6. What sort of features ? Lips thick or thin 1
7. What was his manner towards me 1
I answered these questions to the best of my ability, and by return
of post received a letter from Mr. H. relating that a few days before
(November 20th) he had had an interview with a clairvoyant footman
On the Apparent Sources of Subliniinal Messages. 127
who had, quite spontaneously, described the same figure which I had
myself seen five weeks earlier. For the sake of comparing details, Mr.
H.'s questions to me were framed upon the description given by the
medium. My answers were from memory only, as I had made no note
of the incident at the time, and the following, from Mr. H.'s diary, does
not give details. I may, however, observe that he believes that there
is no discrepancy between my earlier and later descriptions.
"The note I have of your interview is as follows (entered November 18th,
1893) :—On October 10th or 11th I [was introduced to Miss X. who told me]
that on entering the room where we were, she saw a vision (as it were) of an
Indian gentleman, presumably a philosopher, standing behind me and vanish
ing immediately after I rose to shake hands with her. This vision she said
she interpreted to mean that I was under an oriental control and should
therefore presumably be fond of psychology, logic, metaphysics, and specula
tive thought generally.
"She was careful to explain that she did not regard the vision as proof of
the real existence of such a spirit, but merely as a symbolical embodiment or
projection from her own mind of a conception which she had formed of my
character. She then looked, she told me, at the shape of my thumb, and
though not a believer in palmistry, and believing that the lines on the hands
are inherited from our prehensile ancestors, she thought that this part being
large was indicative of some considerable logical argumentative or reasoning
power."
[This is not quite what I meant to convey. I considered Mr. H.'s
hand very interesting from the curious resemblance of a somewhat
nnusually shaped thumb to that of a Parsee acquaintance, a great
student of logic and of classical and oriental mysticism. I have never
been convinced of the justice of the pretensions of the alleged
" Science " of palmistry, but I often glean indications from what one
may call the expression of the hand, and have sometimes found that the
palm may act as, so to speak, a point de repere for thought-transference
or intuitional impressions.]
I now append Mr. H.'s report on his comparison of evidence :—
"Miss X."
On entering the room I saw a vision
of a man standing behind you.
He was an Indian ; a Hindoo, or
perhaps a Parsee.
His clothes were white, apparently
cotton or thin silk with a coloured
bordering.
The Footman,
There's a man standing by you
now.
He is a furrener (foreigner). He
isn't white and he isn't black, but
he's a kind of dark orange, a sort
of Mulatto colour.
He's dressed all in white ; he's got
a kind of brown holland suit on.
128 "Miss X."
" Miss X."
He had a white cotton or silk turban
on his head, with a red edge.
His hair and his whiskers were very
dark.
His lips were rather thin but not re
markable.
He stared before him with Hindoo
indifference, but seemed to regard
you as his property. He stood
quite close to you with his hand on
your shoulder. He had a sort of
guardian spirit air ; a sort of in-
spirer of your existence air ; a
general air of proprietorship and of
your belonging to him.
The Footman.
He's got a white turban on his
head.
He's got dark hair and darkwhiskers;
very dark.
His lips are neither thick nor thin,
but medium.
He looks at you very lovingly. He
knows you very well, and looks as
if he could take you up in his
arms and hug you. He stands
very close to you, so he must be
very intimate with you.
At the risk of apparent repetition I think it well to add Mr. H.'s
notes, taken at the time of his interview with the footman, as in these
cases the questions are often almost as important as the answers.
November 20th, 1893.
The servant without any questioning made the following statements :—
There's a man standing by you now.
He's dressed in white, a kind of brown holland suit.
He's got a white turban on his head.
He isn't black and he isn't white. He's a kind of orange or Mulatto
colour—a kind of dark yellow.
He's got dark whiskers and dark hair.
His lips are neither thick nor thin, but medium.
He looks at you very lovingly ; he knows you very well and stands very
close to you, so he must be intimate with you.
I said : ' ' Does he wish to say anything to me ? What does he wish me
to do?"
He said : ' ' He wants you to study philosophy. He wishes you to inves
tigate spiritualism."
1 said : " Does he wish me to go in for it deeply ? "
Reply : " He says, ' yes.' "
I said : " Does he wish me to give up all my time to it 1 "
Reply : " He says, ' yes.' "
I said : ' ' Does he wish me to give up my profession for the purpose of
studying philosophy ? "
Reply : " He nods his head and says, 'yes'. He says, also, that you are
very impressionable, very easily impressed, and if you go by your impres
sions (? intuitions) you won't go far wrong."
The letter which accompanies this, illustrates the difference between
Mr. H.'s point of view and mine,
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 129
" See if this does not alter your theory of the vision. How could two
different persons, one refined, educated, and well-connected like yourself,
the other a poor ignorant working-man, see precisely and absolutely the same
subjective vision, if there were no objective reality there ? Isn't the ' simple
truth ' hypothesis after all infinitely more simple ami scientific and credible
than all the fine-spun theories which seek to set aside the theory that the
thing which we see first w that which it purports to be ? I have no intellectual
difficulty in taking the vision as a piece of genuine objective perception
made by means of a sixth sense or special power (latent perhaps in all),
but developed only in a few."
I should perhaps state that I have sufficient reasons, into which
however I need not enter at length, for believing that this was not,
as might appear, a case of that inscrutable omniscience which usually
pervades the kitchen. I am as certain as one can be of anything, that
by no normal means could this man have heard of the previous
incident.
I reminded Mr. H. of the probability that as his psychical experi
ments and experiences had been very few in number, it was likely that
his interview with me might, on the occasion r f his visit to a medium,
somewhat prominent in his mind, and that thought-transference
might account for the second description of the Hindoo. I have no
means of deciding between the two interpretations.
III.—I find it possible to distinguish between a vision of a living
friend and of one who has passed away, by reason of the greater con-
creteness of the phantasm of the living—a perception, mental, perhaps,
rather than sensuous ; but on very careful reflection, recollection, and
analogy, I can find no certain difference in kind between the thought
image—the visualisation of an idea—and the so-ealled "spirit";
suggesting that this, too, may be in certain cases the visualisation
of an idea—for myself a pregnant fact, infinitely suggestive. My
own inclination is invariably to exhaust every possible normal,
even every possible extension of natural explanation, before appealing
to what we call the supernormal, and I ventured to urge this point
upon my correspondent. He, however, assured me that he found
a "straightforward spirit" a much more thinkable hypothesis than
" an externalised visualisation of a symbolical idea subconsciously
conceived "; and though I may have my opinion on the case
in point, " I have no reason but a woman's reason "—" I think
it so because I think it so." Such things rest, unfortunately, but
too often, on impressions too subtle for analysis, almost too subtle
for statement.
A curious little incident, not the less suggestive and perplexing for
its extreme triviality, occurred, also in connection with Mrs. T., while
in Scotland last summer.
M
130 "Miss X:
We were breakfasting alone, very early and somewhat hurriedly,
on the morning of August 10th, having planned to take the coach to
Glencoe, when I suddenly perceived a little red man dangling in the
air, a foot or two away from my friend, and remarked upon the fact.
She looked at the toast-rack and marmalade in front of her, and being
used to odd statements on my part, asked "What kind of a red man!"
As he continued his dangling I was able to describe him in detail.
He was entirely red, and had the sort of outline of the little jointed
ivory figures one buys in the Soho Baazar. His arms were crooked
abruptly upwards at the elbow, and he ceased a little above the knees.
Mrs. T. could suggest no explanation, and we went our way
leaving him, so far as I know, still dangling from an invisible string.
We did not return till late in the afternoon, when Mrs. T., having
entered the house first, met me as I came in at the front door, saying
" There's your red man ! " and showed me a letter she had just
received marked, Immediate—To be forwarded, and sealed in red
wax with the impress of precisely the figure I had described. The
letter had arrived by the first post, shortly after our departure, and
was of consequence.
We have kept the seal, which, so far as I am aware, I had
never before seen, and Mrs. T. has written a separate account, as
follows :—
"One morning at breakfast, (August 13th), during our Scotch tour,
Miss X. said to me, ' I have a hallucination this morning of a little
red man dancing about on the table ; he has no legs, and has one of his arms
crooked up in a funny fashion ; he has something to do with you, not me,
as he keeps dancing about in front of you.' I could not account for the
little red man in any way ; but in the evening I found among my letters
(which had arrived after we had gone out in the morning) one of some
consequence, with a red seal, an impression of a man without legs, and
holding a flag or sword in one hand."
No cudgelling of my brains or stirring up of my memory avails
to contribute anything further. I simply saw the little red man, he
suggested no association, and I assigned him to my friend merely
because he seemed to belong to her " surroundings."
Once while we were out I observed a girl with a heraldic device
in her hat, sitting next to the coachman in his red jacket. We
speculated as to the possibility of his correspondence with my vision.
But I felt at the time he wouldn't do.
I should like, before passing on to another point, to illustrate what
I have said as to the sense of abstraction which accompanies the image
of one who has passed away.
It has happened to me many times, so vivid are these phenomena,
to mistake a phantasm for a living person, for the moment, but only
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Message*. 131
for the moment. I believe that this is merely a consequence of my
extreme slow-sightedness as, when the time sufficed, the mistake lias
always been corrected. If the vision has only sufficient duration I
become conscious of its independence of my environment. In every
case that I am personally able to recall, the living phantasm brings
with it some hint of its own surroundings, of the things with which
it has some real relation—the dead seem to be abstracted from any
surroundings whatever.
Now for my illustration. An old family friend, a very accom
plished musician, had directed my musical studies from my earliest
childhood. He had a very highly strung, artistic temperament, yet,
strange to say, was an absolute Materialist. He was so closely associ
ated with my favourite study and my desire to please him by diligence
and perseverance was so intense, that, when thoughts of music occupied
rny mind, it was not remarkable that I should visualise my old friend
at his piano or organ. And it was always definitely at Ata instrument.
If I fancied him at mine, a more careful observation would show that
the piano before him was his own favourite Broadwood. I would see
him, too, among the surroundings of the seaside home to which he had
lately removed,which,though I have never seen it, seems quite familiar,
and I was glad to find, on seeing a photograph of his studio only the
other day, that I had correctly localised the old familiar furniture.
On the 5th May, 1893, I received a letter from his wife, in which
she said that both were getting old and feeble, but nothing of a nature
more alarming. On the 9th, one of my frequent pictures of my old
friend arose before me. He looked just as usual, with this difference,
the image bore no relation to anything else; it was, if I may so describe
it, a vignette ; there was no piano or violin, and the sense of abstrac
tion, before referred to, was very intense. To a friend, who endorses the
story, I remarked sadly that I knew my old friend was dead. I also
entered the impression in my diary. The next day brought the sad
news. I do not think there was any time coincidence. My friend
had died at dawn, and my picture was formed about 9.30 a.m., three
hours later. I have never classified this as "a phantasm of the dead;"
it has rather seemed to me as if some sub-conscious knowledge of the
fact, however obtained, served to modify a familiar act of visualisation,
or, if we make thought-transference the basis of any theory of explan
ation, as if the seer were incapable of receiving an impression of the
new surroundings, as if the new atmosphere could not communicate
itself, as if, let us say, my friend had become abstracted from time and
space and had no relation with the things which we call " real.''
Strange to say, I have lately had a similar monition of the
dangerous illness of uay friend's wife. I give the story as noted
132 "Miss X."
' ' On January 29th, X. and I were dressing to go [out] when I suddenly
noticed that her eyes were fixed on the window, in a manner I know
well and have long learned to associate with something ' uncanny. ' I
waited till her face regained its normal expression, and then asked what she
had seen or what she felt. She turned to the clock, and said in a dreamy
far-away tone, ' A quarter past 11 . I think Mrs. C. is dead or very ill.*
The next morning a letter telling of the dangerous illness of the lady
in question reached X., from a relative,—a very rare correspondent."
[Signed by D.]
My old friend's illness was very sudden—the result of a stroke of
paralysis, but I cannot discover any time coincidence, unless it may
be that of the writing of the letter, as to which my correspondent
can only say, " it was somewhere about the middle of the morning."
And here I would say emphatically that there are two classes of
phantasms (I use the word as less committal than " spirits," for I do
not feel myself in a position to speak with certainty) two classes of
phantasms, of which I am unable to speak from experience, the
phantasm that is so concrete as to utilise furniture, remove tables and
occupy chairs, and the phantasm that is so abstract as to be indepen
dent of space, beyond whose person one may trace the pattern of the
wall-paper.
I offer another example of the possible explanation by thought-
transference of what at first sight might seem a vision of the
departed.
Two years ago I was visiting in a country village, in which I
had spent much of my childhood. The constant companion of those
earlier days was my friend M., who since my last visit had married,
gone abroad and had died. So intensely was the thought of M. associated
with all my old haunts, and so complete had been during life our
power of thought-transference, that a vision of my old friend in half a
hundred spots would hardly have surprised me. Nothing, however, of
the sort occurred, until one day I was walking with a friend past a
row of houses built since my last visit, and towards which I felt only
the distaste of an old inhabitant for modern improvements. At the last
house in the row I had a momentary vision of my friend M. As, of
course, the sense of my friend's loss was very prominent in my con
sciousness, I could not, with any fairness, analyse the impression, for it
is obviously a case in which one would have to discount for expecta
tion. It was, perhaps, the very last place in which such a vision might
be looked for, still I never for an instant mistook the figure for any
other, brief as was the impression of its presence.
A remark made to me the following day possibly explains the
phenomenon. A sister of my deceased friend said to me, "I want to take
you to call on the T.'s. They live in the end house in that row of new
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 133
villas," naming the place of niy vision, " and would like to know you.
They are too old to call upon you, but M. used to be there so much that
I think you -would like to meet them. They think they saw you pou
the bouse yesterday."
'What more likely than that the thought of M., so prominent in
several minds, should have thus taken shape, perhaps, in some such
fashion as in a crystal picture. But I cannot tell.
I have, so far, tried to express the effect upon the Subject of three
stages of supernormal messages.
(1.) The impulse to deliver a statement which seems to owe its
genesis to something apart from one's own consciousness, to be inde
pendent of reason or memory, perhaps analogous to the messages of
clairaudience or automatic writing, but having no corresponding sense
impression, an elementary form possibly of the phenomenon known as
" trance utterance."
(2.) The externalisation of an idea, a symbolic presentation of an
impresssion consciously or sub-consciously made.
(3.) A definite sense hallucination, presenting some fact sub-con
sciously acquired by thought-transference, clairvoyance, or other
means.
These have all so much in common that to distinguish between
them is not easy and may be considered merely fanciful. But some
times, as in the following case, a mind picture seems to contain all
three elements at once, and the analysis becomes more complex still.
During the month of August 1893, we chanced to be staying in a
sea-side village on the north coast of France. The hotel was so full
that we had to sleep in a little chalet at a short distance away. My
own room was next to that of an English lady with whom I had
a slight acquantance, mainly on the basis that we were fellow-members
of the S.P.R. But we had exchanged but few visits, and I had no
acquaintance with any of her friends.
On August 11th, about 7.20 o'clock, I looked into her room on
returning from my afternoon bathe, to ask if she would walk with
me up to the hotel for dinner. I found her lying on her bed, with her
back to the window, and reading the newspaper. In place of the wall
behind her, I seemed to see the view of a sea-side watering-place—a
view quite different from that really visible through the window.
'With this for a background, I saw a scene which will be shortly
described.
I was naturally somewhat startled, and hardly knew in what
words I accounted for my visit ; but I left my friend very hastily
and returned to my own room. I there wrote the following
memorandum in the few moments which I could spare before going
up to our meal at the hotel.
134 "Miss X."
" Friday, August Uth, 1893.
(A) " I entered Mrs. T.'s room rather hurriedly this afternoon about 7.20
to tell her that I was going up to the Hotel terrace, and found myself
momentarily confronted with a startling scene. She was resting on her bed,
and the very limited space behind her seemed to have expanded so that I
looked straight onto the sea without the intervention of wall or window. It
was rather a sea than what lies before us here. Against this background a
man was moving so that I saw his profile only. He was above average
height—not young—grey, with a moustache—clear cut face—very upright.
As he came near Mrs. T. he turned so as to face me, but my attention was
distracted at that point by the intervention of two other figures who seized
him from behind with gestures which somehow conveyed to me annoyance
if not actual malice. These were two girls, perhaps between 18 and 25, but
it is not quite safe to say. I saw only one distinctly; she was well outlined
—rather 'gentlemanly ' in her get up—had a ' tailor-made ' air—I rather
think a shirt, but if so it had a stiff front or a man's tie, and was not loose
and soft. The other girl impressed me as the stronger, but whether mentally
or physically I cannot say. The man was well groomed— dressed, I think,
in grey. I did not see the girls' faces."
While at table, I told my friend that a wish she had chanced
to express that something of psychical interest would happen during
her visit seemed to have been fulfilled, but without describing the
circumstances, which we agreed she had better have in writing.
We further agreed that in view of the possibility of some further
development, it would be better that we should exchange no ideas
or information upon the subject. On our return to the chalet, T
presented her with my memorandum. She expressed great interest,
but did not tell me to what extent the vision was veridical, beyond
the remark that though the description of the gentleman, was almost
exact, she felt tolerably sure that he had not a suit of the colour
I described.
The next morning I was alone in my room, turning over in my
mind the details of my vision, when suddenly the whole scene re
appeared. For the first moment, I was inclined to feel that this was
only a visualised memory, occurring as it might have done in a picture
in the crystal. But I soon perceived that it was something more, as.
the story received new additions, which I at once described in writ
ing, of which the following is a copy :—
(B) "Saturday, 11.40. Sometimes if I wait without seeking for informa
tion I get my visions repeated with additions—a recrudescent memory, a*
T believe, involving some facts unnoticed at the moment. I have now
discovered the name of one of the two girls. As I was noting down
yesterday's events in my diary the whole scene was reproduced in a flash
with the addition that the man on being held back shouted ' Aimee I
Aimee ! ' " [The real name being one which, as to the peculiarity of its.
finals, corresponds with this.]
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 135
Early next morning I slipped this memorandum under the door of
my friend's room, calling her attention to it, with the remark, " I have
found out the name of one of those girls.'' When we next met, my
friend expressed increased interest in the story, but again offered me
no information. During the day, however, she put into my hands a
ease containing photographs, calling my attention to the portrait of a
friend of whom we had had occasion to speak a few days before. I at
once exclaimed, pointing to another portrait near it, " Why, that's
the ghost; and a very good likeness, too." She then told me that she
had had all along little doubt that this gentleman, her friend, Admiral
Z., [whose real name and title I am not permitted to give,—a man of
distinction in one of the Services] was the original of my picture ;
that the two girls in question were his daughters, but they were
unknown to her, and that she could not at all explain the details in
my vision which had seemed to express some enmity towards her on
their part.
I now add Mrs. T.'s remarks upon the incident.
"Miss X. has asked me to give an account of a curious incident in which
I was the agent. I was lying in my room after bathing, reading the Daily
Telt'/raph, and my thoughts entirely centred on the article which I was
perusing. I heard a knock at my door, and on my saying 'Come in,'
Miss X. entered to tell me that she was going up to the terrace of the hotel,
at the same time remarking that I was very flushed, which, I said, I attri
buted to the bath. During dinner, about half an hour afterwards, she
said 'I saw something extraordinary in your room just now,' and on my
expressing astonishment she told me the following strange story which I
cannot do better than give in her own words as she kindly wrote it out for
me that evening.
[See A. ante.]
"I was much impressed, as all the figures were so distinctly described
that I could, without hesitation, recognise every one of them. I purposely
gave Miss X. no hint which could in any way guide her to a solution of
the meaning of this curious vision.
"The next morning while I was dressing she pushed under the door the
following, at the same time saying ' I have discovered the name of one of
the girls. '
[See B. ante.]
"Now this is to me most interesting, as my second name was Aimee, and I
have never in my life been called by that name except by the man in the
vision ; and on my asking Miss X. why she wrote the name with ee instead
of the more usual y, she replied ' because it impressed me as being written
thus.' I never sign this second name except to official documents, and she
could not possibly have known that it was my name.my first [which is here
given as Esther], of course being well known to her."
[Mrs. T. does not even use her second initial.]
1 "Miss X."
The next chapter in the story was as follows :—
On Monday the 14th of August, we were at a hotel in Rouen, and
at table d'h6te I was seated next to my English friend, Mrs. T. ; and
in conversation, she referred, but without naming him, to the Admiral,
and without touching upon the incident which had introduced him to
me. As she spoke, I happened to be twisting round with my fingers a
tall goblet of Chablis, into which I was idly gazing. As I looked, there
formed upon tl a surface of the glass the following words, in long,
narrow letters.! —
" Aimee is Esther ; the one who speaks is Kate."
I read the message aloud to my friend, who at once exclaimed :
" Now you know. It is quite true that I, Esther, am Aimée. The
name properly belongs to me, but it is one which I never use, and never
employ in my signature, and never hear except from the lips of this one
particular friend, the Admiral. It is also true that one of the girls is
called Kate."
A curious detail in regard to this point is that the name which I
havA given as "Kate" is also my own name, which may complicate the
question as to the real meaning of the message. I am inclined to
think that it relates to one of the girls, as I can conceive of no reason
for informing me of my own actions.
We both agreed that this message was of a particularly perplexing
kind, as I had all along supposed that the cry, " Aimee, Aimee,"
referred not to my friend, Esther, but to the Admiral's daughter.
On the suggestion that I might perhaps see something more, I
again gazed into my goblet, when at once the following picture
appeared : —
[I quote the account written the same evening and which has been
preserved (with A and B) by Mrs. T.]
" Monday Evening, August 14<7i.
" While at table d'hote engaged in conversation with Mrs. T. (not having
any obvious bearing on what followed) I chanced to look into my goblet of
Chablis and there read in type of the following proportions [Here I repro
duced the letters as exactly as I could] :—
" ' Aimee is Esther ; the one who speaks is Kate.'
"This passed away, and was succeeded by a picture not so clear as before
ich I cannot recall except as a memory—that is, I can revive the
ssion, but not visualise the scene—A long row of houses of the sea-side
house type—in front a road—beyond, a long low building—an
anade, and below the sea—at the door of the building stands the same
an as before—the right hand in his pocket, looking straight out before him
^-perhaps it is not a door—I saw the upright lines behind him— it may be
window—it faces the sea."
My friend was quite unable to say whether this vision were or
were not likely to be true, as the place at which the Admiral was
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 137
staying was one she had never seen ; but she took an early opDortunity
of sending him a description of the incident, and two or three days
after, she read me his reply.
I add some further notes of Mrs. T.'s on the story.
" I must here state that my conversation at that moment was with
reference to the man in the vision, although unknown to Miss X., and my
thoughts apparently called up these names in the glass as if to tell her to
whom I was alluding. i
" On writing to tell my friend of this vision, in re, 'y ho says ' the
description Miss X. gives of the house does not correspond with the house I
am living in, but does to a great extent with the club from which I always
write—it is on the sea front with a road in front—then the esplanade and
sea—and I often stand at the door or bay window and look out across the
sea.'
" One or two points are interesting as regards the first vision. I said to
Miss X. ' you are wrong about the colour of the clothes the man was wearing,
as he only has a brown suit with him.' In reply to my query to him on the
subject, he writes ' I had worn a grey suit that morning, and a brown one
in the afternoon, but at 7.15 o'clock I must have been dressed for dinner,—
the girls had on' serge dresses with silk fronts, not shirts, (as they were
going out for a sail after dinner) ; they often wear in the day-time stiff
shirts with ties.' "
It seems to me that this story contains, as to the source of the
messages, varied and conflicting elements. The figure of the Admiral
might perhaps be traced to thought-transference from my companion;
but as the figures of the girls—unknown to her—may be regarded as
"part of his surroundings," whatever that phrase may mean, it would
seem more simple to consider both elements in my vision as purely
clairvoyant. In either case, the picture may be regarded as belonging
to Class III. But supposing it to be clairvoyant—that I really did
see the man and his daughters—how shall we account for the irruption
of that part of it which was not literally true, though to me quite as
real and vivid as any other—the action of the girls in withdrawing
their father from my friend's influence ?
This can only be taken as symbolic, as belonging to Class II., the
visualisation of an idea. How far the idea was of my own conception
it would be difficult to say.
Then the explanatory message seen in the glass of Chablis—whose
mind gave birth to this? Is not this, although more externalise^Bfc
the same class as the impulse to say things which our minds h;iv|H,lt
consciously conceived ?
The vision of the Admiral standing at his club window— which
was literally coincident—one would explain without hesitation as
thought-transference, except for the fact that if we admit clairvoy
ance in the former case, one does not see why it should be exckided
138 "Miss X.
in the other, just because another and simpler hypothesis would fit
the circumstances equally well.
On the theory that one's intuitions and premonitions and the like
are messages from one's sub-conscious self to the self of one's ordinary
consciousness, it is instructive to note that one's sub-consciousness
occasionally appears to regard things from a somewhat different stand
point from that of the ordinary consciousness, to present important
facts in an aspect which makes them seem to us unimportant, to
externalise only some trifling accessory in an interesting picture, and
to misrepresent, and often exaggerate one's emotions. Why, for
example, should it not be as easy to see the contents of an important
letter as to see the (equally unknown) device upon its seal ?
Why, if it were needful to offer warning against a new acquaint
ance, should the veil be lifted from a scene of his boyhood, dis
graceful enough it is true, but a far less practically useful warning
than a glimpse of his contemporary mis-doings, which might
have saved those belonging to him from much subsequent misery 1
Why, again, should we be subjected to what I may describe as fictitious
emotion, as in the following example ?
On Tuesday last, January 22nd, I was, as is my custom, occupied
with my books before rising. I had been reading for perhaps an hour
and was vaguely conscious that there were movements about the
house. I was reading " Love's Labour Lost," and had paused to
visualise the second scene between Moth and Armado in the full
absurdity of its detail. Suddenly, just as one scene succeeds another
in the crystal, the picture I had conjured up disappeared, and gave
place to that of the village street of my northern home. But, as often
in dreams, the scene was historically inaccurate, for not only were
there the rough stone cottages thatched with ling, of my childhood's
days, with one of which (in my picture, especially visible) the abode of
an old servant, I was very familiar, but also part of the block of
handsome stone buildings by which they have been lately displaced,
and in which a very intimate friend chances to have his offices.
Together with the picture, there flashed upon me a sense of loss
and distress, which, as I gazed, took possession of my whole being.
Tears sprang to my eyes, and I felt that I knew that something
sorrowful had occurred, though of what nature I could not recall.
The impression was as if left by forgotten knowledge, not a forecast of
the future, the sort of distress with which one awakes from a forgotten
dream. A moment later, hearing the steps of the maid, and the
clink of the tea-cup outside, I extinguished the lamp to give me time
to recover from my too obvious distress. She re-lighted the lamp
and handed me with my tea a letter which I at once perceived was
from a sister of this friend. I opened it with increasing apprehension,
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 139
for, as I had heard from her but a few days before, I felt sure she
must have some special reason for writing. The letter was to tell
Die that our dear old servant, who formerly lived in the cottage of my
vision and whom I had known all my life, hail died suddenly, and
that my friends had just returned from the funeral service.
It is an ungracious task to measure one's regrets and affections, but,
as so often happens in the case of being " prepared " for a shock, the
previous emotion was in excess of that which the news itself would
have occasioned.
Certainly, whatever the source of such messages, there is about them
a distinct lack of the sense of proportion in time, space, and degree.
In the case just quoted, the superfluous emotion did not certainly
come from the friend who communicated the news, for her interest
in the old servant had been largely for my sake. So far as I can tell
in looking back, I went through none of the natural consecutive pro
cesses of reasoning which might lead from a vague sense of something
wrong in a certain village to association of the fear with those
dearest to me in the neighbourhood, dread as to what that might
include, and terror of the worst. I am perfectly clear that I siiw
both dwellings at once,—the sites of the two being not fifty yards
apart.
There are many cases of this kind which do not admit of being
recorded before the coincidence is known, and which must therefore
rest on my personal veracity and be judged accordingly. This may be
said also of the following incident, in itself trifling, but which I quote
as a further illustration of the queer way in which one seizes upon an
accessory, rather than the more important item in an incident. I was
driving home in the afternoon of January 14th. My cab was checked
at a street corner, and I noticed that we were passing an oyster shop.
Suddenly I knew that my friend E. was sending some oysters to an old
gentleman we know who is ill. I looked at the time,—4.20—and
though I had not the smallest reason to suppose E. had ever thought
of doing such a thing I felt no doubt as to the fact. I fully intended to
note it down on my return, but unluckily forgot all about it till next day,
when I heard D., my invalid friend's daughter, sending a message of
thanks for some oysters sent by another friend, not E. E., however,
was present and I turned to her and said, " You ought to have sent
those oysters, I saw you doing it yesterday afternoon at 4.20."
"That was the very time they were being sent off," she answered,.
" and though they were Mr. J.'s present, I ordered and sent them at
his request."
Presumably the motive force in any act is the initiation of that act.
Mr. .J. had never sent my friend a present before in his life, and, in
deed, knew him very slightly ; such impetus as the act might receive
140 "Miss X:
from its novelty and his initiation ought, one would naturally suppose,
to have been accompanied by the idea of Mr. J., and yet such idea failed
to reach me, while the more familiar and commonplace one of E. did
its work.
In receiving messages of this kind, I always feel that a main point
is to preserve them from admixture with the ordinary stratum of con
sciousness ; otherwise they become, in point of psychological interest,
as dreams at the moment of waking to deep-sleep dreams. As soon as
I begin to reason about an impression, I begin to distrust it. Con
stantly, in trying to receive psychometric impressions, I find that
having dismissed my first impulse as too improbable I am reduced to
mere guessing and all interest is lost. So I think it a good rule to say
'whatever comes into my head on such occasions. For instance, D. has
noted down the following : " December 24th, I showed [X] Aunt E 's
little box to-day,and said ' you may have the contents of this if you can
see them through the lid.' She answered, ' Then I certainly shan't
get them, for what I see is not likely to be in a box of that sort' [a card
board two-inch cube, coloured to look like oak]. ' What do you see 1 '
' Wedding cake.' In point of fact the box contained a miniature
plum-pudding in a toy basin." I am perfectly aware that whereas my
first (and approximately correct) impression seemed to my reasoning
faculties absurd, the second article I visualised,—a memory of recent
shopping, an inkstand shaped like a cricket ball,—was far more wide
of the mark.
I do not apologise for the triviality of the experiences quoted.
Were they of a more startling character they would lend themselves
less easily to comment, either now or at the time of their occurrence.
What I feel to be, from the critical stand-point, far more important, is
their numerical frequency, and the relation of success to failure.
For about five years I have tried to keep a diary of such things.
I have aimed at writing down premonitions before their coincidence
was known—noting cases of thought-transference, retro-cognition,
psychometry, intuition of all kinds. I am conscious, as most people
are who attempt to keep diaries, of unlimited omissions ; but so far as
the entries go, I think they have been kept with exactness, and I may
point out that, as I have exercised no selection as to entries, as I
have omitted cases because I forgot them, or because the book was not
at hand, or the occasion not convenient for writing, not because
they were not good, such omissions tell against me, and not in my
favour—which I note with satisfaction.
I am certainly within the mark in saying that I have noted less
than one-third of the total of experiences of this kind. I ought to
say, too, that I never note pictures which spring from fancy and recru-
descent memory which I recognise as such at the time, nor pictures
On the Apparent Souixes of Subliminal Messages. 141
which I put in the crystal, unless they develop in some unexpected
direction. Such things are obviously not worth recording, as any one
capable of visualisation can create them indefinitely at will. They
are like half the novels one reads, amusing for the moment, occasionally
suggestive, but mere pastime and not worth remembering.
I have omitted, too, certain cases which, for various reasons, have
found record elsewhere,—as for instance, when any friend concerned in
the experience has asked for a written account of it and it has not
seemed to me worth while to repeat the memorandum. Further, I
ought to explain that an entry may include half a dozen pictures or
impressions, provided they relate to the same subject and occur on the
same or a not distant occasion. For example, the whole story of Mrs.
T. and the Admiral is recorded under one heading, and comes in first
as "Number 31 " and then as " 31, continued, see above."
Perhaps one year's records may be taken as typical; 1894 has
given, as far as I can judge, a good average ; better, I think, than
1893 ; not so good as the two previous.
All the above details being allowed for, I classify my record for
1894 as follows :—
(a) 19 cases good.
(b) 5 „ bad.
(c) 27 „ imperfect.
(d) 7 „ unexplained.
(«) 5 „ incomplete.
(a) The classification "good" does not refer to the quality of the
message but only to its accuracy. The " little red man," for example,
is very trivial, but as far as it goes it is correct ; this, and " Clara
Stimpson," and " Frances at Eastbourne," and " The Admiral " series,
though differing in quality, I should classify alike as " good," because
they contain no element of doubt.
(6) I classify as bad such impressions as seem to have no founda
tion in fact, as for instance, when I picture a friend as in trouble, who,
in point of fact, is in average spirits, and the like. I am inclined to
believe that nearly all such cases are due to the irruption into an im
perfect, or imperfectly understood, experience of the ordinary
consciousness. Of course in certain cases there is another obvious
explanation, that a friend may have transmitted the impression of a
passing mood or sensation, keen enough for the moment, but forgotten
in looking back, when questioned, on the day's general complexion.
Two cases originally classified as bad, I have since changed to " imper
fect " on discovering that I had been intentionally misled by the person
to whom they referred. One of these is, I believe, were the evidence
complete, really a yood case, but I leave it, at present, as imperfect.
142 Miss X."
(e) I classify as imperfect all such cases as are only partly good,—
like the "plum-pudding" story. It occasionally happens that a case
at first imperfect becomes good in process of time.
(d) The class unexplained includes such stories as the Hindoo and
Mr. H., which is neither right nor wrong but, as far as we know,
meaningless. I was at first disposed to classify these as subjective, but
I am inclined now to think that inadequate, perhaps unfair.
(e) The cases classified as incomplete are those as to which the
evidence is too imperfect to admit of any conclusion being drawn,which
it would be unjust to relegate to the bad, but which, for lack of precise
information, I am unable to classify more precisely.
I will not further multiply examples which are the more tedious
because their principal point lies in the minuteness of their differences.
I have perhaps made it apparent how difficult it may be for even the
recipient of supernormal messages to speak with any certainty as to
their source. I should like to sum up, as possibly suggestive of com
parison to others of wider and more startling experience than my
own, the very few conclusions which I have been able to deduce from
my own observation of apparently supernormal messages, which, I may
remark, have been tolerably frequent during my whole life, and which
I have now observed very carefully for about seven years.
(1.) I find it quite impossible to mistake the intention of any figure
which has ever appeared to me at the moment of death, although these
figures have, I think, in all cases, presented their usual appearance.
(2.) I think also that,when the glimpse has been more than momen
tary (and again I would emphasise the fact of my slow-sightedness), I
have never, even in the case of strangers, mistaken a vision of a
deceased person for that of one still living.
In both cases I am speaking of the kind of vision which we call
clairvoyant—which it is difficult to trace to the mind of any one living,
or to any memory or observation of my own. In both there is a strong
sense-impression of abstractedness to which I have before referred ; in
the former case this, naturally, is further accentuated by the emotion or
shock which accompanies it.
(3.) But things become more complex when this sense of abstracted
ness is carried—as in the case of the Hindoo—into pictures of the kind
which seem to me to be externalisations of an idea. If the idea,
whether born in my own mind or communicated from that of another,
does not include any surrounding circumstance, the figure will be " a
vignette," having no relation to things about it, standing or walking
possibly in the air, owning none of the usual conditions of time and
space.
On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. 143
(4.) But if, on the other hand, the mind in which the picture
originates further conceives the surroundings, these too will be
presented. Then the vision will fall under one of two groups :—
(a.) The picture may be thought of as in definite, distant surround
ings, so that the seer, while walking in a London street, may see a
friend seated at a dinner table at ten o'clock in the morning. A vision
of this sort is difficult to distinguish from " clairvoyance," and it is
constantly so mis-called, just as any subjective hearing of voices is mis
called " clairaudience." I admit the frequent difficulty of distinction.
Happily, we have usually the obvious ground of coincidence, the com
parison of time, place, and contents of message.
(b.) The figure may be thought of as having relation to my surround
ings, so that I may see a friend, who has pictured himself as calling on
me, in the act of lifting the latch of my garden gate. This is an
instance when a hallucinatory figure may be excusably mistaken—as
frequently happens—for a real one.
In all subjective analysis and observation of this kind, there are
two constantly recurring difficulties, both of which have to be
reckoned with—the element of surprise and the element of expectation.
Each is in its way a serious interruption—the shock which partially
unnerves, the antecedent knowledge or apprehension which over-
stimulates the activities, so that discrimination between what we see
and what we think we see adds another feature to the problem of
exact observation.
It must be a very hardened observer indeed, who does not feel
some degree of emotion, whatever its kind, however familiar its
occurrence, at the sudden extension of one's purview ; and it is, in
many cases, only afterwards that one analyses the brief impression.
This, inevitable as it is, emphasises the importance of deducing no
rule from a single, or even from a few examples. It is so easy, and
yet bo fatal, to read back the proof of any theory one is anxious
to establish.
On the other hand, expectation too is a serious pitfall, far more
serious, I believe, than we are ready to realise. The question is
not one upon which time will permit me to enlarge ; but I believe
that the extreme difficulty which has beset all my mechanical
experiments in crystal-gazing is to be found equally, though less obvi
ously, in every analysis of sense-impression. There is the difficulty
of tense, of, so to speak, physical expectation, and the difficulty of
mental expectation, this last being both conscious and sub-conscious.
In the above illustrations, T have tried to select some which
seemed free from these especial complications, the importance of which
I think will be readily conceded.
144 "Miss X."
There is one danger of which I say nothing, because, in truth, I
know nothing of it—the alleged danger to health of mind or body.
For myself, I am perfectly healthy ; accustomed to an active life spent,
in great part, in the country; riding, walking, or gardening, a lover of
animals, flowers, and country pleasures. My health, like that of most,
has suffered interruptions, but I can emphatically say that my psychical
experiences are clear and abundant in proportion to the perfection of
my physical health—that weariness or exhaustion, which might render
them dangerous, makes them, as a rule, impossible.
Note by Mes. Sidgwick.
As no names are mentioned in the above paper, I am asked to
state that " Miss X." has shown me all the signed documents referred
to in it. The proofs of the part of the paper relating to incidents in
which they were concerned have been submitted by us to Mr. H.
and the lady referred to on pp. 120-122, who have approved them.
Mrs. T. sent her accounts as quoted on pp. 122 and 130 direct to me,
and "D.'s " original account given on p. 132 is also in my possession.
The ladies spoken of as " D." and " H." have appended their
signatures to the following cases, in which they were concerned,
in testimony that the circumstances, so far as they knew of them,
were correctly stated :—viz., H. to those on pp. 117, 118-119, and D.
to those on pp. 116, 117, 118-119, 131, 139 (also signed by "E.").
I may add that the incidents seemed to me to gain in impressive-
ness when I discussed them with " Miss X.", partly on account of
details which could not be published, but which added to the force
of the coincidence.
SupplementI 145
Reviews.
SUPPLEMENT.
REVIEWS.
T.
Recent Books ox Hypnotism.
1. Psycho-Thérapie. Cliniqne de Psyclw-Thérapie Suggestive d'Amsterdam.
By Drs. A. W. Van Renterghem and F. Van Eeden. Paris, 1894.
2. Le Somnambulisms Provoque et la Fascination. By Dr. E. Mesxet.
Paris, 1894.
3. L'Sypiwtisme et le Crime. By Dr. Crocq, (Fils). Brussels, 1894.
4. Die Bedeutung der hypnotischen Suggestion ah Heilmittd. Berlin, 1894.
5. The Use of Hypnotism in the first degree as a means of modifying or
eliminating a fixed idea. By Dr. Russell Sturois. Reprinted from
the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, 1894.
6. The Elements of Hypnotism : its phenomewx, its dangers and value. By
R. Harry Vincent. London, 1893.
7. Ein Beitrag zur psychischen und suggestiven Behundlnwj der Neurasthenic.
Von Dr. Freiherr von Schrenk-Notzing. Berlin, 1894.
8. Die Psgcho-therapie (Hypnose) ; ihre Handhabung und Bedeutung fiir den
pmktischen Arzt. Von Dr. med. Tatzel. Berlin, 1894.
Members have no doubt noticed the satisfactory progress which is being
made by the Library, and how especially the " Edmund Gurney " portion
of it is being continually increased by the addition of new books on
psychology and allied subjects. Works on hypnotism form the largest
portion of the recent acquisitions, and the bulk of these are written by
physicians and deal mainly with the subject as a method of treating
disease. They are therefore outside the scope of the Society's Proceedings
except so far as they contain matters of general interest.
(1). Among the most recent and most important of these is Psycho-
Thirapie, by Drs. van Renterghem and van Eeden, of Amsterdam. These
physicians have used hypnotism extensively in their clinique since 1887, and
their book is an exposition of their experience.
In their interesting introductory chapter, they enter into an explanation
of psycho-therapeutics, and contrast the method of treating diseased
states by suggestion and by drugs. In the former case they claim, as do
Liebeault and Bernheim, that we go at once to the root of the matter, and
by stimulating the ideo-motor centres in the brain attack the disease from
K
146 ISupplement.
Revieivs.
its starting-point or centre, instead of from the periphery, as when drugs
are used.
The end aimed at by all treatment is to influence the plasma or
formative material of the body, but this can be done more naturally and
efficaciously, they think, by suggestion than by drugs. It is impossible,
they admit, to increase the initial vital energy, which is a matter of
inheritance, but the existing supply of vital energy may be stimulated and
directed into proper channels by appropriate treatment. Man is not a
machine which merely requires supplying with a certain quantity of fuel to
replace waste of energy. He differs from a machine especially in that
he possesses a fund of energy upon which he can draw for the wants of the
organism. It is the direction and management of this fund which the
authors consider the most important function of the physician, and the
one which suggestion enables him to exercise to the greatest advantage.
They give detailed reports of a number of their cases, and a tabulated
statement of the malady for which each patient was treated, his degree of
susceptibility to hypnotism, and the result attained.
The number of persons who presented themselves for treatment was
1089, and of these 58, or 5'33 per cent., proved insusceptible to hypnotism,
and 120, or 11 -61 per cent., were affected to the extent of somnambulism,
characterised by amnesia, or loss of memory on waking of what was said
or done during the hypnotic state. The remaining 82 per cent. were
influenced in varying degrees, from slight drowsiness or heaviness to
profound sleep, which just fell short of somnambulism. The authors
express themselves satisfied with the curative results obtained, and
emphatically assert that in no case have untoward results followed the
treatment.
The book is so clearly and candidly written that its effect upon the
reader must be convincing. Drs. van R«nterghem and van Eeden have
earned especially the gratitude of the medical profession by this exposition
of five years' carefully detailed experience, and no doubt their labours will
be recognised and rewarded. In fact, indications are apparent everywhere
that medical men are awaking to the important part played by suggestion in
all methods of treatment.
(2). Dr. Mesnet's book is written from a medico-legal standpoint. He
has closely studied the phenomena of profound hypnosis in neurotic patients
in the wards of the Hotel Dieu in Paris, of which he is Senior Physician.
He comes to the same conclusion as Bernheim and Liegeois, of Nancy,
that these highly sensitive subjects can be absolutely dominated by the
hypnotist, and could be subjected to ill-treatment, made to sign documents,
and impelled to commit crimes by hypnotic suggestion. He cites several
test cases in support of his views, and urges consideration of the matter on
medical men and jurists.
Dr. Mesnet has made a special study of that phase of somnambulism
termed fascination, in which the subject is hypnotised by gazing into the
eyes of the hypnotist or at a bright object. In this state, as has been
demonstrated by previous investigators, the higher brain functions seem
entirely suspended, and the subject simply follows the object which has
fascinated him without consciousness or volition.
Supplement.I 147
Reviews.
The condition sometimes occurs spontaneously, as in a case reported by
Dr. Mesnet. One of his colleagues was called to attend a station-master
who had been fatally injured by a locomotive. The poor man expressed
himself completely ignorant of how he got on the line, but witnesses proved
that he had advanced to meet an in-coming train, and had appeared
determined to have it run over him. Further evidence showed that he had
frequently suffered from catalyptic seizures and temporary loss of conscious
ness when suddenly confronted with a flashing surface. Similar cases have
been reported by other physicians, and it is possible that some deaths which
look like suicide may be due to attacks of spontaneous fascination.
Dr. Mesnet relates some interesting cases of spontaneous somnambulism
which he was able to convert into the hypnotic equivalent by making
suggestions at the moment the patient was waking to a normal condition,
thus demonstrating the practical identity of the two states.
His endeavours to hypnotise his most sensitive patients from a distance
have not convinced him of the possibility of this procedure, and he has
had none but negative results in his experiments in thought-transference
and clairvoyance.
(3). Dr. Crocq, of Brussels, also discusses hypnotism, chiefly in its
medico-legal aspects. Though he agrees with Dr. Mesnet and others of
the Nancy School, that the power of suggestion in profound hypnosis is so
great that the patient's scruples miy be overcome by repeated and energetic
suggestions, yet he thinks criminals will find, if they attempt to use
hypnotism to effect their ends, that they will be betrayed by it, for the
memory is very likely to be revived by properly applied suggestions. Dr.
Crocq has also made a considerable number of experiments with a view to
obtaining hypnosis when at a distance from the subject, but he has not
been successful, and we are justified therefore in continuing to hold that
this is only possible, if at all, in a very small proportion of the most
sensitive subjects.
(4). It appears that the practice of hypnotism has been forbidden, even
to medical men, in Russia by the state authorities. Physicians who were
interested in the medical use of hypnotism, and who looked upon this
interference as uncalled for, appealed to their brethren throughout Europe
to send a protest to the Russian Government, with a view to getting the
prohibition removed. We do not know whether this effect has followed
the petition, but the situation has produced a very interesting volume, and
one which is probably unique in the history of medical literature. It
.contains articles written by thirty well-known physicians in German,
English, French and Italian. The writers were asked to express their views
with regard to the utility of hypnotism, its dangers, and the steps they
would recommend for its regulation ; and the result is this collection of
essays.
(5). Dr. Russell Sturgis, a well-known physician of Boston, has published
a pamphlet on the use of hypnotism in the first degree for removing fixed
ideas and conditions of ill-health starting from nervous or moral shock.
His views, which are illustrated by cases, bear out the experiences of
Professor Janet and other physicians who are endeavouring to demonstrate
n 2
148 ISupplement.
Reviews.
the importance of the psychical factor in disease. One of Dr. Sturgis's
cases is that of a lady who had for many years suffered from sleepless
ness, neuralgia and general loss of health. It was some time before she told
Dr. Sturgis of the starting point of her illness, which dated from the
sudden death of her invalid father, to whom she had spoken angrily shortly
before he died. She had become impressed with the idea that he had died
without forgiving her, and this so preyed upon her mind that her health
gradually broke down. Dr. Sturgis was able by hypnotic suggestion to
remove the morbid idea, and the patient rapidly recovered.
(6). In The Elements of Hypnotism, a young writer, Mr. R. Harry Vincent,
has produced a useful and interesting rtsnme of the subject, illustrated by
many original experiments. While an undergraduate at Oxford, he
hypnotised a number of his college friends, both dons and undergraduates.
He found, as did Mr. Hugh Wingfield at Cambridge, that undergraduates
are, as a rule, excellent subjects. As these young men may be said to
represent the pick of the country, this fact is sufficient to dispose of the
assertion that one still hears at times, that only persons of a low order
of intellect are hypnotisable. Mr. Vincent gives some remarkable instances
of the readiness with which sensory hyperesthesia is produced by
suggestion during hypnosis. For example, "A number of persons each
take in their hands some small object, such as a penknife or coin. While the
subject is still out of the room, these articles are placed on the table and the
subject is brought in. He takes up the first object, smells it, and then
smells the hands of the various persons till he comes to the owner of the
object, when he leaves it in his or her hand, and so on until he has settled
the ownership of all the articles placed on the table." To show the effect
of suggestion in heightening the power of memory, Mr. Vincent quotes the
case of a friend of his who was in for an examination in history, and was
unable to remember dates. He asked Mr. Vincent to hypnotise him, and
suggest improved memory. The experiment proved so successful that
the candidate passed a good examination and found himself able to
remember columns of dates after reading them over a few times. Mr.
Vincent adds that the effect has continued. The latter part of the volume
is devoted to experiments on animals, and these are illustrated from
photographs. Mr. Vincent finds he is able to hypnotise many small animals,
such as birds, frogs, snakes and lizards, by monotonous excitation of special
nerves. He has one pet toad which becomes almost immediately cataleptic
when he strokes its back, and continues so for three or four minutes. Mr.
Vincent is perhaps rather too ready to accept Professor Bernheim's dictum
that suggestion explains all the phenomena of hypnotism, and to ridicule
other theories ; but the book is thoroughly readable, and can be recommended
to the lay reader who desires to learn something of hypnotism and of the
modern views concerning it.
(7). Dr. von Schrenk-Notzing's latest contributions are almost exclusively
of medical interest ; and the same may be said of (8) the excellent little
volume Die Psycho-therapie ; ihre Handhabimg und Bedeutnng, by a new
writer, Dr. Tatzel of Essen, who has studied under Dr. Wetterstrand of
Stockholm, to whom he dedicates the work.
Chas. Lloyd Tuckev.
Supplement.) 149
Reviews,
II.
Apparitions ami ThoHght-Traiisference : an examination of the evidence fur
telepathy. By Frank Podmore, M. A. With numerous illustrations.
London, Walter Scott, Limited, 24, Warwick-lane, 1894. Charlns Scrib-
ner's Sons, 743-5, Broadway, New York. (The Vontempvrary Science
Series, No. xxvi. )
Mr. Podmore tells us in his preface that he aims " at presenting in
brief compass a selection of the evidence upon which the hypothesis of
thought-transference, or telepathy, is based." For his material he has
drawn upon the Phantasms of the Living, the Proceedings of the Societyfor
Psychical Research, the unpublished records of the same Society, and many
other sources. The conclusions to which he aims to bring his readers are, he
thinks, in substantial agreement with those of the representative workers of
the Society, "yet," he says, "I have no claim to represent" that Society,
" nor right to cloak my shortcomings with the authority of others."
Mr. Podmore's book will receive a warm welcome at the hands of all
those who are interested in this line of work. We have long felt the need
of just such a book,—a book that would put before the world in accessible
form some small part of the evidence for telepathy that has accumulated in
the last few years, and would thus serve as a stimulus to further
observation and experimentation. Probably no living man is better fitted
to undertake such a task than Mr. Podmore, and the book will meet this
want most admirably. His many years of experience in dealing with such
problems, his thorough acquaintance with what has been done in the field,
his cautious temper and his uniform candour are known to all who have
profited by his work in the past. The present writer feels no little
hesitation in venturing to criticise the policy of such a veteran as Mr.
Podmore. No one can say to what extent his own judgment is warped by
tendencies to believe inherited from his cave-dwelling ancestors, and 1 am
aware that some of the remarks which I shall make, which indeed seem to
me to be based upon metaphysical speculations of recent origin, may be
inspired by latent animistic tendencies long since formally exiled from the
company of my accredited beliefs. Yet, even with such a dire possibility
confronting me, I shall make bold to write the impression which the book
makes upon me.
Mr. Podmore is cautious to the verge of conservatism. All will agree
that any accepted theory should be somewhat strained to account for new
facts, before we either confess ignorance or resort to new theories, but
opinions will vary as to the exact point at which such straining ceases to be
a virtue, and, by impeding the freedom of speculation, becomes a bar to
further progress. In the first half of his book, Mr. Podmore seeks,
and very successfully, to establish a theory ; in the second, he strains it to
account for phenomena which, I think, can be brought under it only by a
*eries of more or less violent assumptions. It is to these assumptions that
I wish chiefly to attract attention.
The thesis which the book is designed to establish is thus stated on page
6 :—" Communication is possible between mind and mind otherwise than
150 ISupplement.
Reviews.
through the known channels of sense." The introductory chapter calls the
attention of the experimenter to such common sources of error as fraud,
hyperesthesia, muscle-reading and thought-forms. The four following
chapters, " Experimental Transference of Simple Sensations in the Normal
State," " Experimental Transference of Simple Sensations with Hypnotised
Percipients," " Experimental Production of Movements and Other Effects,"
" Experimental Production of Telepathic Effects at a Distance," give a review
of the more important part of the experimental evidence. It is not
possible to give here any adequate idea of the strength of that evidence. It
appears that tastes, smells, pains, visual images, motor impulses and
inhibitions have been transferred to normal and hypnotised patients, at
varying distances and under conditions which preclude any supposition of
the intervention of normal means. It is difficult to understand how any one
can follow Mr. Podmore's masterly presentation of these results without
experiencing some degree either of conviction or of confusion.
In these first five chapters Mr. Podmore consistently aims at his proposed
end. But with the sixth chapter, which takes up the evidence for thought-
transference occurring spontaneously, we enter upon a quite new field.
Chapter VI. itself contains a shrewd estimate of the absolute value of the
spontaneous evidence, and of its relative value as compared with the
unpretentious results of the first five chapters. Mr. Podmore unhesitatingly
rests his case upon the experimental evidence alone. "If," he says on page
144, " all the [spontaneous] cases . . . hitherto recorded could be shown
one by one to be explicable by more familiar causes . . . the grounds
for the belief in telepathy would not be seriously affected ; we should
merely have to modify our conception of its nature, and restrict its
boundaries." While admitting that the spontaneous evidence, far more
than the experimental, is exposed to the possibilities of error, he claims that
these incidents "in their aggregate are not such as can be plausibly
attributed to misrepresentation or coincidence," but constitute "an im
portant body of evidence. "
To this important body of evidence we are introduced in the nine
following chapters, the captions of which will sufficiently indicate their
contents. Chapter VII., " Transference of Ideas and Emotions." Chapter
VIII., "Coincident Dreams." Chapter IX., " On Hallucination in General."
Chapter X., " Induced Telepathic Hallucinations." Chapter XI. ," Spon
taneous Telepathic Hallucinations." Chapter XII., "Collective Hallucina
tions." Chapter XIII., "Some Less Common Types of Telepathic Hallu
cination." (In this chapter we have reciprocal cases; misinterpreted mes
sages ; heteroplastic hallucinations ; haunted houses and others mentioned.)
Chapter XIV., "On Clairvoyance in Trance." Chapter XV., " On Clair
voyance in the Normal State."
Mr. Podmore admits that the weight of the evidence contained in these
chapters will be variously estimated by various persons. But he does not, I
think, make equally plain the fact that the significance of this evidence is at
present far from clear. He has hitherto strictly confined himself to his task.
He has given us the evidence.for telepathy. Now, by telepathy Mr. Podmore
means something more definite than the definition above quoted would lead
us to expect, and the further limitations of his conception speedily come to
Supplement.I 151
Reviews.
view in the meaning which he ascribes to the perplexing phenomena with
which he is now called upon to deal.
This material is interpreted by many in favour of two theories which are
at present in the deepest disgrace in the scientific world,.the doctrine of a
life after death, and its twin, the belief that the intelligence does occasion
ally in some sense leave its body during life, and visit distant scenes. Mr.
Podmore's object in adducing this evidence is, or seems to be, not merely to
prove that there is such a thing as a non-sensory communication between
mind and mind while in the body, but also to show that, admitting such a
non-sensory communication as experimentally established, we can explain
these spontaneous phenomena without resorting to either of the above
obnoiious doctrines.
In the original definition there is nothingtoexclude either of these theories.
It is conceivable that telepathic communication may take place between minds
in the body and minds out of the body, if the latter exist at all, which we
do not as yet know. It is also possible to frame an animistic theory which
will fall within the broad domain of that original definition. For it is not
nominated in the bond that the minds in question must, to affect one another
telepathically, remain in the place in which their respective bodies are, and
there is nothing inconceivable in the notion that minds may in some sense
be capable of translocation while their bodies remain unmoved. It is true
that we cannot as yet define in what sense, except negatively. We can be
quite sure that it is not in any material sense, and that the phantasm does
indeed belong, as Mr. Podmore shows in the chapter on hallucination in
general, to the world of dream rather than to that of matter. But until we
have fixed more certainly the relations of the dream-world to the
material, it is as well not to be too dogmatic in our assumptions.
It will, of course, not be possible for me to give, within the limits of a
review, a complete analysis of the difficulties which confront Mr. Podmore
in his endeavour to account for these phenomena after the analogy of the
experimental evidence. A few must suffice.
The experimental evidence suggests what may be called an inductive
conception of the telepathic process. This conception Mr. Podmore has, I
think, in mind throughout, and in the last chapter he has attempted to
work it out in detail. We have usually in each case : (1.) A known human
consciousness, which we may proleptically style that of the agent ; (2.) A
mental state, x, consciously existing in it ; (3.) A second known
human consciousness, that of the percipient ; (4.) A second state, x1,
consciously existing in it, and resembling or in some way related to state x ;
(5.) A relation of sequence or coincidence established between states x
and xl.
To this type a large number of the spontaneous cases conform more or
less exactly, and may be justly regarded as depending upon the same laws.
Iu certain respects we may expect variations. The agent and percipient are
usually known to one another, and frequently sustain intimate personal
relations to one another. Preoccupation on the part of the agent
with the thought of the percipient, especially in times of emotional
excitement, and a deliberate intention on his part to affect the percipient
appear to be conditions favourable to the transmission of the telepathic
152 ISupplement.
Reviews.
impulse. A passive slate on the part of the percipient seems to favour the
reception of the impression. The emergence of the induced state in
consciousness may follow or even precede the occurrence of the supposed
inducing state. The induced state x1, may diverge more or less widely from
the actual form of the inducing state. If this divergence be very great, the
message may be regarded as misinterpreted. If not very great, the induced
state may be termed autoplastic,—that is, constructed by the percipient out
of material furnished by his own mind upon the lines suggested by the
telepathic impulse. When xl is an exact copy of x, the state is said to be
heteroplastic. Such are the leading features of this type.
The difficulties which I shall mention fall under two chief heads.
1. Those arising from a lack of evidence for the existence of the state x.
2. Those arising from a multiplicity of simultaneously "induced "
states.
When there is nothing more than a lack of evidence for the existence of
x, it is not unreasonable to assume that x exists in some consciousness
unknown to us. Acquaintance and intimacy seem to be, as I have said,
conditions favourable to the transmission of the telepathic impulse, but we
have reason to think that they are not essential conditions, and, from the
nature of the case, in most such occurrences the agent's share in the matter
would remain unknown,—we should simply have an unrecognised hallucina
tion, and the evidence for its telepathic origin would be wholly lacking.
But frequently the circumstances are such as strongly to suggest an
extra-human origin for the telepathic impulse. Often the information thus
conveyed is known to have been in possession of some friend or relative of
the percipient who has recently died, and the information is sometimes such
as we should suppose the dead would wish to convey to the living. When in
such cases we not only know that the information was in the possession of the
dead, but also have good reason for thinking that it is not in the possession
of any one living, or not in the possession of any living person known to
the percipient, the presumption that the impulse originated with a dead
person becomes very strong. Mr. Podmore's unwillingness to resort to this
hypothesis is, I think, not justifiable. However repugnant such a doctrine
may be to our sensibilities as scientists,—especially since it has been con
joined with the absurdities of " Modern Spiritualism,"—it is our duty to
consider it fairly as one of the conceivable hypotheses. It certainly is not
yet proved. But there was a time when telepathy between living minds
was also not yet proved, and it is not likely that it would have stood as near
proof as it does to-day had Professor Sidgwick, Mr. Podmore, Mr. Ourney,
Mr. Myers, Mr. Hodgson and others, at every step refused to consider the
hypothesis at all. Such evidence, as Mr. Podmore himself shows, should
be considered in the aggregate.
An analogous difficulty is presented in the phenomena of "clairvoyance."
If such phenomena can be established upon human evidence, it would
appear probable that persons, either in the normal state or entranced, have
described occurrences remote in space or time or both. The percipient
seems to become cognisant of these things much as if he had been actually
present and had seen them with his eyes. According to the telepathic
theory, as formulated by Mr. Podmore, we must suppose that his information
Supplement.I 153
Revieu.s.
is drawn from the consciousness of some other person, who did become so
cognisant of them. But it often seems very improbable that any living
being has at any time had an experience analagous to that which occurs in
the percipient's consciousness. Thus when Mr. Cleave in trance sees his
friend faint, we certainly cannot suppose that he in any way shared her
experience of fainting. He saw it as he would have seen it had he actually
been present In one most interesting series of apparently clairvoyant
visions of which I knew, —the patient being an intimate friend of mine,— the
visions shifted between these two types, and in some cases passed through
both. In the first stage the patient seemed to be a sticctator of the scene,
the supposed agent appearing only as one object among many. In many
of the visions of this type, the "agent" was not in any way thinking of or
interested in the patient. In the second stage the patient appeared to
become identified with the visual consciousness and discursive thought of the
agent, on one occasion heard a remark addressed to him, but never shared
his motor sensation or GemeingefiM. It is also noteworthy that the
visions of the first type were accompanied by no disagreeable symptoms and
could occasionally, though rarely, be produced voluntarily. The visions of
the second type were invariably preceded by characteristic and severe pain
in the head, were followed by great prostration and were never produced
voluntarily.
It is not improbable that these are distinct but related types, and they
certainly do not themselves tend to suggest a thought induction of any
kind. The first is what is commonly called clairvoyance,—the second seems
to suggest a partial coalescence of the consciousness of the patient with that
of the supposed agent. I quote this case, however, as an illustration of
possible conceptions and not as proof for the existence of the states in
question. The evidence which I have goes to show that the information
apparently derived from these visions was true, but the evidence is not, to
my mind, satisfactory.
In all cases where the induced state x1 contains non-veridical elements,
we may term x1 partially autoplastic. But when the "induced" state
contains elements which, although veridical, are not apparently drawn from
the mind of the agent, but are such as could have been got by some third
person, if actually present, much as they were got by the percipient, how are
we then to interpret them by the inductive theory ?
The second group of difficulties, those attending the explanation of the
collectively perceived phantasm, often contains all the above, as well as
those peculiar to itself. There is often no known living agent, and the
circumstances sometimes suggest a dead agent. Furthermore, the phantasm is
usually described alike by all the percipients, but I know of little evidence for
the imposition of a complete heteroplastic hallucination, under circumstances
where no animistic conceptions are admissible, upon several percipients not
known to be especially sensitive to telepathic influences. The single
unambiguous case which Mr. Podmore quotes (No. 62), is so remote that I
do not feel willing to accept it as conclusive. Again, there seems to be no
known reason why the phantasm is so commonly that of the human figure.
The "local hallucination " (haunted houses) presents, in addition to those
of the above types, certain difficulties of its own. Why, upon the telepathic
154 (Supplement.
Reviews.
theory, should hallucinations be attached to certain places ? Mr. Podmore
mentions (page 314) a curious notion suggested by Mr. Gurney,—that any
person, thinking of a given place which is at the time actually experienced
in sense-perception by some other person, may attain thereby to such a.
community of consciousness with the other person as to be able, under some
unknown circumstances, to import into the consciousness of the second
person, in the guise of a hallucination, a thought existing in his own.
This speculation is certainly fascinating to the idealist, but until some
definite evidence can be adduced in its favour, it is not entitled to rank as
more than a speculation.
In view of these difficulties, it seems to me that we have no right to say
that telepathy is sufficient to account for such phenomena. For my own part,
I know of no theory that is even approximately satisfactory. It is not, I
think, necessary to accept the dilemma which Mr. Podmore offers us in his
chapter on hallucination between a crude materialistic animism and such
an inductive conception of telepathy as the experimental evidence and a large
part of the spontaneous would lead us to form. No one will dispute Mr.
Podmore's statement (page 272) that the notion of an objective material
existence for the phantasm collectively perceived has not been rendered
more intelligible "by the invocation of fixed ether, intercalary vortex
rings, space of four dimensions," etc. ; that the theory "betrays its own
origin in a pre-scientific age, and without formal destruction by argument
has shared in the euthanasia which has overtaken many other pious opinions
found inadequate to the facts." But it is also possible to urge similar
objections against ascribing "material" existence to any phenomena
collectively perceived, and many thinkers of repute regard the much lauded
conceptions of contemporary science as intrinsically little better than the
barbarous animism of our forefathers. All alike are the outcome of more
or less instinctive efforts to formulate the manifold of experience in
relatively simple concepts. "Modern science" represents a much more
advanced stage of this process, and the symbols it has devised represent the
facts far mere accurately than the productions of the pre-scientific age
could hope to do. Yet not even the most " scientific " of these conceptions
can withstand a metaphysical,—perhaps better a meta-scientific, analysis. Our
power of analysis is greater than our power of synthesis ; we can show how
unsatisfactory these conceptions are, but we cannot frame better to take
their place. It may well be that in these perplexing and unclassifiable
phenomena we are gaining data whereby future generations will be able to
correct and reconstruct the conceptions which our present day science
regards as fundamental, and in view of that possibility we should, I think,
be cautious in trying to force such facts into any semi-scientific conceptions
that we can now frame.
In his concluding chapter, after suggesting that telepathy may possibly
co-operate in normal life with the recognised means of conveying thought,
and endeavouring to explain by its means the reported action of the metals
and magnets upon the body and the alleged physical phenomena of
Spiritualism, Mr. Podmore states the two theories as to the relation of
telepathy to our other faculties. He seems inclined to favour the theory
that it is a remnant of a lost faculty, but adds that if we admit the existence
Supplement.; 155
Reviews.
of such supernormal faculties as clairvoyance, retrocognition and prevision,
" it would be more reasonable to regard telepathy as a member of the group
of such supernormal faculties, operating in ways wholly apart from the
familiar sense activities, and not amenable, like these, to terrestrial
laws."
Wm. RoMaINE NeWBOld,
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
III.
(J.) A Modern Priestess of Isis : abridged and translated on behalf of the
Society for Psychical Research from the Russian of Vsevolod
Sergyeevich Solovyoff, by Walteh Leaf, Litt.D.
(2.) Isis very mwh Unveiled: being the story of the great Mahatma Hoax, by
Edmund Garrett.
These two volumes complete the story told in the Report of the
Committee on Theosophic Phenomena (Proceedings, S.P.R., Vol. 111.).
In the pages of the Report we were enabled to examine the finished
products of Madame Blavatsky's genius ; we saw the manufactured
phenomena, as turned out for the American, Indian, and European markets ;
we made the acquaintance of some leading members of the Theosophic
cult in their final stage, a pleasantly ambiguous blend of charlatanry and
simplicity. In Mr. Solovyoff's vivid narrative, as englished by Dr. Leaf,
we are privileged to look on at the process of manufacture, to watch the
gradual evolution of history into myth, of conjuring tricks into occult
phenomena, of Madame Blavatsky's colleagues into her dupes or her accom
plices. Mr. Garrett tells us how the business was carried on by less com
petent hands after the death of the head of the firm, and the disastrous
consequence of glutting the market with astral letters.
Mr. Solovyoff is a Russian of good social position, and an author of
some repute. At the time when his narrative begins, May, 1884, he was
staying in Paris, studying mystic and occult literature, and planning to
write on '' the rare, but in my opinion, real manifestations of the
imperfectly investigated spiritual powers of man." Quite opportunely,
when thus engaged, he came across a recent book of Madame Blavatsky's,
and a copy of the Matin containing a notice of her arrival in Paris. Having
obtained an introduction from a friend at St. Petersburg, Mr. Solovyoff
called a few days later. He found Madame Blavatsky lodged in a small,
poorly furnished apartment, in a long mean street, and was at first
repelled by "the plain, old, earthy-coloured face" of the Prophetess herself.
But they were both Russians, and in a strange land ; Mr. Solovyoff received
s frank and kindly greeting, and in a few minutes found himself talking
as to an old friend. The intimacy thus suddenly begun seems to have
continued on much the same footing until the final rupture. Madame
Blavatsky constantly appealed to Solovyoff's friendship whenever he could
render her any service, and he seems never to have disregarded the appeal.
Whatever he may have thought at different periods of their acquaintance of
156 ISupplement.
Revinvs.
Madame Blavatsky's claims to supernormal power, Solovyoff throughout
seems to have looked upon her as a woman to be loved—or at worst to
be pitied.
Their first interview, whilst productive of much high spiritual converse,
was not wholly barren of "phenomena." Madame Blavatsky left the room
for a few minutes—to attend to some domestic duty, as she explained—
and- shortly after her return the silvery peal of the famous astral bells was
heard in the air. A few days later, after receiving an assurance that no
religious dogma was involved, and that the study of Oriental literature was
the chief object aimed at, Mr. Solovyoff was initiated in due form into the
Theosophical Society, in the presence of Mr. Keightley, and the pure-souled
chela, Mohini M. Chatterjee. Shortly afterwards he made the acquaintance
of Colonel Olcott and the celebrated turban given to him in New York
by an astral visitant from the Himalayas.
A few days later, Mr. Solovyoff was himself privileged to witness a
manifestation of a remarkable kind. He called upon Madame Blavatsky
by appointment one morning. There were present Madame Blavatsky,
her sister, Madame Jelihovsky, and others. To them thus assembled there
came a ring at the outer door. The door was opened by the serviceable
Babula, Madame Blavatsky's Hindoo servant, who was seen by Solovyoff to
take a letter from the postman's hand, and lay it, securely sealed, on the
table. The letter was for Miss X., an elderly lady staying in the house, who
had not yet left her room. It occurred to Madame Blavatsky that the
letter, thus unexpectedly introduced, afforded an excellent opportunity for
a test. She placed the unopened letter against her forehead and slowly
wrote down the contents of the letter, uttering them aloud at the
same time, amidst expressions of scepticism from Madame Jelihovsky.
Irritated no doubt by this wanton display of domestic unbelief, the
Prophetess vouchsafed further proofs of her power. With a red pencil
she drew on the paper a theosophical symbol- of the kind with which readers
of the Westminster Gazette are familiar through Mr. Garrett's narrative—
and at the same time underlined "obviously with a great effort of will" a
word in her copy of the letter. The letter was then handed through the
open door to Miss X., who came out and read it in their presence. The
contents of the letter were identical with the copy made by Madame
Blavatsky, and the theosophical sign and underlined word occurred in their
proper place in the original. That this "phenomenon" much impressed
Solovyoff at the time is shown by the fact that he not only signed an account
of it drawn up on the spot, but that he subsequently sent, in his own name,
a letter detailing the circumstances to the Bebits. The latter fact, indeed, Ls
not mentioned in its proper place in the narrative ; but Solovyoff admits, in
the description of the incident, that he did not at the time realise all the
possibilities of fraud in the case.
A few days later, in obedience to a summons from Madame Blavatsky,
Solovyoff came away from a theosophical meeting in the middle of a lecture
by Olcott, and was rewarded for this act of self-denial by witnessing, in the
same domestic circle, the birth, under the maieutic hands of Madame, with
the still serviceable Babula as assessor, of yet another " phenomenon." The
miracle on this occasion, however, was perhaps a trifle crude for European
Supplement.I 157
Reviews.
testes ; or the whole performance may have been badly staged. At
any rate the impression produced upon Solovyoff appears to have been
unfavourable ; the incident was not recorded over his signature in the
newspapers ; and Madame Blavatsky had occasion to lament his hardness
oi heart.
In August, 1884, Solovyoff was privileged to have another experience,
this time of a less dubious kind. He went to see Madame Blavatsky at
Elberfeld, and on the night of his arrival there, under peculiar circumstances,
had a vision of Mahatma M. But lest this dream or hallucination should
fail of its due effect, the " Master " followed it up by inserting the following
day a confirmatory note in Olcott's coat pocket, "between a button and a
toothpick."1 As Olcott was, however, in another room at the time of its
receipt, it must be admitted that the Master paid less than his usual deference
to Western ideas of evidence. At any rate Solovyoff, though obviously
anxious to believe, remained unconvinced.
Then came the publication of the Coulomb letters, and the investigation
by Mr. Hodgson and the S.P.R. Committee ; there were many agitated
letters and much travelling to and fro on the part of Madame Blavntsky.
Finally, in August, 1885, apparently—Mr. Solovyoff is vague about times and
seasons, and extremely chary of dates—he went to Wiirzburg at Madame's
invitation. Her only companion at the time was a small Hindoo, one
Bavaji (or Babajee, as he is called in Dr. Hodgson's Report). Madame
Blavatsky appears to have thought that the time had now come for a final
effort to overcome the obstinate scepticism of her pupil. He called upon
her one morning, and found her sitting in a huge arm-chair :—
"At the opposite end of the table stood the dwarfish Bavaji with a
confused look in his dulled eyes. He was evidently incapable of meeting
my gaze, and the fact certainly did not escape me. In front of Bavaji on
the table were scattered several sheets of clean paper. Nothing of the sort
had occurred before, so my attention was the more aroused. In his hand
was a great thick pencil. I began to have ideas.
'"Just look at the unfortunate man,' said Helena Petrovna suddenly,
turning to me, ' he does not look himself at all, he drives me to distraction.
He imagines that here, in Europe, he can carry out the same regime as in
India. He never used to eat anything but milk and honey, and here he is
doing the same. I tell him that if he goes on like that he will die, but he
will not listen. And so he had an attack last night.' "
Then came much talk in Russian—a tongue Bavaji did not understand
—on the S.P.R., and on Solovyoff's want of faith. Then Solovyoff
continues, "I was walking about the room at the time, and did not take
my eyes off Bavaji. I saw that he was keeping his eyes wide open, with
a sort of contortion of his whole body, while his hand, armed with the
great pencil, was carefully tracing some letters on a sheet of paper.
" * Look ! What is the matter with him ? ' exclaimed Madame Blavatsky.
"'Nothing particular,' I answered, 'he is writing in Russian.' I saw
her whole face grow purple. She began to stir in her chair, with an obvious
I An account of theincident, written by Mr. Solovyoff shortly after its occurrence,
*ill be found in Proceeding! 3.P.R., Vol. III., pp. 393—5.
158 ISupplement.
Reviews.
desire to get up and take the paper from him. But with her swollen and
almost inflexible limbs, she could not do so with any speed. I made haste
to seize the paper, and saw on it a beautifully drawn Russian phrase.
"Bavaji was to have written in the Russian language, with which he
was not acquainted : ' Blessed are they that believe, as said the Great
Adept.' He had learnt his task well, and remembered correctly the form
of all the letters, but he had omitted two in the word 'believe.' [The
effect was precisely the same as if in English he had omitted the first two
and last two letters of the word.]
" ' Blessed are they that lie,' I read aloud, unable to control the laughter
which shook me. 'That is the best thing I ever saw. Oh, Bavaji!
You should have got your lesson up better for examination.' "
Then came more revelations. Madame Blavatsky was alone, except for
poor Bavaji, and seems to have felt the need of a sympathetic companion.
At last an accident precipitated the crisis. Solovyoff went by Madame's
instructions to get a photograph from a drawer, and found there a packet of
the Chinese envelopes, already familiar to him, in which letters astrally
conveyed from Thibet were wont to appear. . Then came the dramatic
moment. Madame Blavataky unbosomed herself completely. "What is
one to do," she said, " when in order to rule men it is necessary to deceive
them " ; when they will not accept even the doctrine of Isis Unveiled
without the belief in miracles ; when their very stupidity invites trickery ;
for "almost invariably the more simple, the more silly, and the more gross
the phenomenon, the more likely it is to succeed ? " There is much more
about the imbecility of her dupes, and of the world in general, and something
about the syndicate of scribes who wrote the celebrated Koot Hoomi letters ;
of Olcott's blundering but well-intentioned assistance in " phenomena," and
his acquittal by the S.P.R. of anything worse than stupidity—a verdict
which Madame seems to have regarded as a personal insult. The strange
interview terminated with an exhibition of the "astral bell," and an in
vitation to co-operate in the manufacture of Koot Hoomi letters.
On the same day there followed a second interview, in which Madame
Blavatsky tried by various means to obliterate the impression which she had
made. First, she alleged that it was a black magician, and not she herself,
who had spoken through her mouth ; then, that the " Master " had designed
to try the faith of his would-be disciple. Lastly, she used alternately threats
and promises. After this there followed more interviews with Madame, and
letters from her : and finally, an extraordinary document, headed " My
Confession." The receipt of this last appears to have finally decided Mr.
Solovyoff. On the ICth February, 1886, he despatched to Adyar a letter
resigning his membership of the Theosophical Society, and shortly after
wards laid before the Theosophists in Paris the proofs in his possession of
Madame Blavatsky's fraud.
After that he appears—whether for the sake of a former friendship or
through fear of vengeance—to have kept silent until after the death of Madame
Blavatsky, and the appearance in a Russian journal of some articles on her
by Madame .Jelihovsky. It was to correct the false picture drawn in these
articles that Mr. Solovyoff published in 1892 the account now translated.
The book is supplemented by two appendices, containing Madame Jelihov
Supplement.) 159
Reviews.
sky's comments on Solovyoff's book and Solovyoff's reply. Madame
Jelihovsky quotes many of Solovyoff's letters, written during the period
of which his book treats, which unquestionably tend to show that he
was much more favourably disposed towards a belief in theosophic
"phenomena" than would appear from the narrative written some years
after the events. But this, if admitted, does not in any way reflect upon his
.candour. He must be an exceptional man who can reconstruct with fidelity
his earlier mental attitude towards a problem, at a time when after events
have placed the solution in his grasp. That Solovyoff was disposed to
believe in Theosophy if he could, appears from his narrative. From his
contemporary letters it would further appear that he did actually go some
.considerable way towards belief. That is all.
As regards Mr. Solovyoff's credentials, he tells an interesting story, and
tells it well. Perhaps for our purposes he tells it sometimes almost too
well. He appears not as a rule to have kept a diary or memoranda of the
events he relates : on only one occasion does he mention having taken
written notes of an interview, and, as already said, he is vague about
dates. It is not surprising, therefore, if he had to rely almost exclusively on
his memory, or on the letters which he received from Madame Blavatsky,
that he should have to some extent misrepresented his own mental attitude
at the time. Nor are we required to suppose that the conversations reported
with Thucydidean aptness have all the authority of historical documents.
But such considerations do not seriously affect the value of his testimony.
The two most important pieces of evidence—the interview at Wiirzburg,
and the Confession written some months later—are sufficiently attested, the
one by notes written, as Solovyoff tells us, on the same day, the other by
the actual document with a legally certified translation. For the rest Mr.
Solovyoff tells a straightforward tale, and there can be no reasonable doubt
that the incidents of which he treats are in their main outlines accurately
described.
Scarcely less valuable evidence is afforded by the letters which Mr. Solovyoff
has appended to his narrative, written from America by Madame Blavatsky
to Mr. Aksakoff. We have here the whole early history of the Theosophical
Society, told in her own inimitable style by its foundress. The series begin
in October, 1874, with a letter describing the spirit materialisations at the
Eddy brothers' house, and the writer's meeting there with Colonel Olcott.
It goes on to speak of the 11 millions of Spiritualists at the last census
in the United States, "which have already grown to 18 millions, almost
50 per cent." (Madame was always a little vague in her arithmetic), and of
the writer's own adhesion to the faith—"I have now been a Spiritualist for
more than ten years, and now all my life is devoted to the doctrine." Then
came, at an inopportune moment, the Katie King exposure, which made
Spiritualism less popular on the other side of the Atlantic. Madame
Blavatsky began by denouncing the exposure as "neither more nor leas
than a plot (now almost proved) of the Protestant Jesuitical Society called
the Young Men's Christian Association ! " (Ten years later, the same
Madame Blavatsky, in a new role, was protesting that another exposure, in
which she was more directly concerned, was due to a conspiracy on the
part of certain Christian missionaries, who had—as again was "almost
160 ISupplement.
Reviews.
proved "—paid 40,000 rupees to suborn false witnesses). Shortly after we
read of a secession from the orthodox American Spiritualists, and the
establishment of a new organ, the Spiritual Scientist. Then again we hear
much of the Hermetic philosophy and of the Kabbala and of Paracelsus ; of
the fruits of Madame's observations in past journeyings in Egypt, Assyria,
Siam, Cambodia, Mexico. But time would fail to trace the devious paths
by which Spiritualism grew into Theosophy, ghosts into astral bodies,
spiritual phenomena into manifestations of the occult power of the human
mind ; how finally Madame from a medium was metamorphosed into a
chela, John King with his saucer-shaped cap became the Mahatma Morya
with his turban ; and the centre of the spiritual universe shifted from the
séance room to the Thibetan Himalayas.
In these pages we find a partial revelation of the whole life of Madame
Blavatsky. For the Confession and her earlier letters to Mr. Aksakoff
indicate pretty clearly what manner of woman she was before she began to
pose as a great Spiritual Teacher. From the same letters we learn by what
steps she rose to her position at the head of a movement at one time by no
means inconsiderable. These letters and SolovyofPs narrative help us also
to a clearer understanding of a personality which she herself might have
described as a reincarnation of Cagliostro or Alexander of Abonotichos.
That she was no vulgar impostor must be admitted. But how much her
activities owed to the common greed of bread and butter, and how much to
such subtler instincts as the love of power and the artist's pleasure in the
work of his hands it is hard to say. One feature, already patent to all who
knew her, however slightly, is brought out strongly by Solovyoff's narrative.
She had at all times of her life the most singular power of winning the
interest, and even the regard, of those who came in contact with her ; even
of some who mistrusted and half despised her. Her opinion of missionaries
in general, and especially of missionaries in India, was well known and freely
expressed ; yet I have myself seen an Indian missionary sitting bound to
her side by the mere charm of her conversation, for half a summer afternoon.
Part of the attraction lay, no doubt, in the fiery energy of her nature,—
an energy which led her to feel or feign an interest in the most diverse
subjects ; which availed to keep her alive when half-a-dozen mortal diseases
were warring in her body ; which enabled her to emerge triumphant from
two such cataclysms as the Katie King exposure in 1874 and the publication
of the Coulomb letters and Mr. Hodgson's report ten years later.
But something was due, no doubt, to her simple humanity ; to the large
ness of nature which held men like Solovyoff and women like Mrs. Besant
captive. Certainly she was built on a grand scale. Her very impostures
were stupendous in their audacity. What other man or woman could have
set two continents talking of her by the help of a few torn cigarette papers
and a buried teacup or so ? And she could inspire fear as well as friendship.
It is impossible not to be struck by the very obvious reluctance which Mr.
Solovyoff showed to offend her—a reluctance which led to his keeping silence
until after her death ; and there is evidence in his narrative that he had.
reason to fear her vengeance. I am acquainted with another case, in which
Madame Blavatsky, when as yet she had not reached the zenith of her
power, half revealed herself to a gentleman in whom she apparently hoped
Supplement.I 161
Reviews.
to find an accomplice. He, too, drew back from the proffered alliance, but
dread of her vengeance kept his lips sealed during her lifetime.
As regards Dr. Leaf's share in the present book, his name is a guarantee
for the accuracy of the translation. Those of us who do not understand
Russian can see for ourselves that the book is written in clear picturesque
English. But not the least laborious part of Dr. Leaf's work, it may be
supposed, lay in the editing and abridgment of Madame Jelihovsky's
voluminous reply, and of Mr. Solovyoffs further comments, for which labour
all English readers owe him gratitude.
Space will not permit us to discuss at length the content* of Mr.
Garrett's clever and entertaining booklet. But the nature and importance
of his work can perhaps best be indicated by the following extracts.
Speaking in the Hall of Science (writes Mr. Garrett) on August 30th, 1891,
three months after Madame Blavatsky's death, Mrs. Besant said :—
"You have never known me tell a lie (No, Never ! and loud cheers). I tell
you that since Madame Blavatsky left I have had letters in the same hand
writing as the letters which she received (sensation). Unless you think
dead persons can write, surely that is a remarkable fact. You are surprised,
—I do not ask you to believe me ; but I tell you it is so. All the evidence I
had of the existence of Madame Blavatsky's teachers and of their so-called
abnormal powers came through her. It is not so now. Unless every sense
can at the same time deceive me, unless a person can at the same time be
sane and insane, I have exactly the same certainty for the truth of the state
ments I have made, as I know that you are here. I refuse to be false to
the knowledge of my intellect and the perceptions of my reasoning faculties."
In an interview published in the Pall Mall Gazette of September 1st,
1891, Mrs. Besant further explained that these letters came from a Mahatma
of whom she was a pupil, and that they did not come through the post, but
" in what some would call a miraculous fashion," in a word, that "the letters
I receive from the Mahatmas are precipitated."
It was afterwards shown conclusively that Mrs. Besant and other
members of the Society had indeed received many such letters, but that they
were written by the hand of Mr. Judge, (" our devoted Judge," as Madame
Blavatsky fondly called him), and forwarded to their destination some
times through the ordinary course of post, sometimes by sleight of hand.
The proof being complete, Mrs. Besant at a prirate conventioii of the
Theosophical Society delivered a speech, of which the following is an
extract :—
"I do not charge, and have not charged, Mr. Judge with forgery in the
ordinary sense of the term, but with giving a misleading form to messages
received psychically from the Master in various ways. . . . Personally, I
hold that this method is illegitimate. ... I believe that Mr. Judge wrote
with his own hand, consciously or automatically I do not know, in the script
adopted as that of the Master, messages which he received from the
Master or from chelas ; and I know that in my own case I believed that the
messages he gave me in the well-known script were messages directly
precipitated or directly written by the Master. When I publicly said I had
received, after H. P. Blavatsky's death, letters in the writing that H. P.
162 ISupplement.
Reviews.
Blavatsky had been accused of forging, I referred to letters given to me by
Mr. Judge, and as they were in the well-known script, I never dreamt of
challenging their source. I know now that they were not written or pre
cipitated by the Master, and that they were done by Mr. Judge ; but I also
believe that the gist of these messages was psychically received, and that
Mr. Judge's error lay in giving them to me in a script written by himself,
and not saying so . . . Having been myself mistaken, I in turn misled
the public."
Mrs. Besant's proclamation in 1891 of her correspondence with the
Mahatmas was published from the house-tops ; but up to the date of the
appearance of Mr. Garrett's articles in the Westminster Gazette this oracular
utterance in a hole and corner convention of the Faithful was the only
attempt made by her to retract the false testimony so emphatically given to
the world. From the evidence which Mr. Garrett has brought forward, we
are all enabled to share Mrs. Besant's conviction that the letters were
"done by Mr. Judge," and to form our own opinion as to the probable
nature of his inspiration. Not the least instructive part of the book, it
should be added, is the appendix containing a selection from the letters
written by Theosophists on the exposure.
Frank Podmore.
IV.
Ueber die Trugivahrnehmung, (Hallucination und Illusion) mit besondcrer
Beriicksichtigung der interuati&tuden EnquMe iiber Wachhallueination
bei Gesunden. Von Edmund Parish. A. Abel, Leipzig, 1894, pp. 246.
This work originated—the author informs us in his Preface—in a study
of the international statistics of the waking hallucinations of persons in a
normal condition, and grew out of a series of lectures given in the Munich
section of the Gesellschaft fiir psychologische Forschung. Its aim is to review
the whole field of sensory delusions,—one important class of which, viz.,
those occurring under normal conditions, has generally been entirely ignored
in current works on hallucinations,—and to show their relation to " correct "
or "objective" perception. The author has made an exhaustive study of the
German, English, French and American literature bearing on the subject,
as far back as the early part of the century, and the multitude of references
he gives form what is probably by far the most complete bibliography of the
subject in existence. He also describes a few hypnotic experiments of his
own, devised to test and illustrate certain points.
As his work came out while the last part of the English Report on
the Census of Hallucinations was passing through the press, Professor
Sidgwick's Committee did not have the benefit of his criticisms on their
results, and his conclusions with regard to the Census are based on the
provisional Tables published at the International Congress of Experimental
Psychology, and on material furnished by the German collection, which only
amounted to 625 answers.
His preliminary general account of sensory delusions is excellent,
embodying the results of all the most important recent discussions, and he
Supplement.I 163
Reviews.
gives a convenient and well-arranged summary of the kinds of hallucination>*
that arise under certain pathological and physiological conditions. The
differences between the pathological hallucinations and.those that occur to
persons in a normal waking condition appear from the descriptions to
be very marked. The former are incidents in a systematic—a more or
less coherent—course of delusion, with which they tit in, just as our
ordinary percepts of external objects fit in with our ordinary course lf
thought. They are therefore not often recognised to be delusive. The
waking hallucinations of normal persons, on the other hand, are isolated
experiences not cohering with the general course of perception, and there
fore recognised to be hallucinatory.
The hallucinations produced by intoxication, various forms of poisoning,
and acute illness or delirium, are also as a rule very lengthened and
complicated, and are bound up with delusive ideas, involving the whole
consciousness of the patient. Different types of hallucinations are often
reported as the effects of different poisons, but the specific action of the
poison is only one factor in the determination of the type. The most
important factors are the circumstances and temperament of the patient ;
such drugs as haschish and opium owe their renown as producers of certain
types chiefly to their being the principal narcotics used by Orientals.
The hallucinations accompanying certain physiological conditions, i.g.,
sleep and hypnosis, occur in the state of dream-consciousness. In post
hypnotic hallucinations, however, the full waking consciousness is
sometimes—though not always—retained, and in this they resemble the
next class considered,—crystal visions. In treating these, free use is
made of "Miss X.'s" experiences, so familiar to all readers of these
Proceedings, and the analogous phenomenon of " shell-hearing" is illustrated
by an interesting case quoted from Spitta (Iter Schlaf n. die TmumzitxUindt
ii. menschl. Seele, p. 293), who succeeded in inducing auditory hallucinations
in himself by listening to slight strokes made by a muffled clapper on a bell.
After considering these various types of hallucinations, Herr Parish
enunciates his main thesis,—that the one element common to all the states
under which they arise is a dissociation, of consciousness, more or less
pronounced. He holds that in the pathological state the intellectual
activity is obstructed, the higher nerve elements that carry on the work
of association become exhausted, and hallucinations set in. The process by
which this is supposed to take place is explained more fully as follows :—
In abnormal conditions of the brain, for instance in anemia, and also
during sleep, some of the higher nerve centres become exhausted, while
others are in a state of unusually high tension. There is therefore
obstruction in the nervous paths leading to the former, and less resistance
than usual in those leading to the latter ; hence the nervous impulses that
would normally affect the first set, become diverted towards the second,
and produce there an effect which is a hallucination. During this process,
sensations which are generally sub-conscious may become conscious, and
may thus determine the form of the hallucination ; the influence of sub
conscious ideas being often seen, for instance, in crystal visions. The
blocking of paths to the centres which would normally be reached is a
process of " dissociation,"—the opening of paths in other directions is what
164 ISupplement
Reviews.
Herr Parish calls "enforced association." His description of the nervous
action is, of course, as he says, only to be regarded as a "diagrammatic
representation " of the way it actually takes place.
Herr Parish maintains that both hallucinations and illusions are
anomalous reactions of the brain to stimuli in the way just described, but
that while illusions arise from dissociation—a dropping out of certain
processes that normally occur, and a consequent failure to correct the
sensations received ;—hallucinations arise from forced association, the nervous
impulses travelling to centres that would not normally be affected by them,
and producing changes there. He holds that the two processes seldom or
never actually take place separately ; but generally one or the other pre
dominates. The original stimulus may be external or may start in the brain
itself ; in the latter case, the hallucination is an illusory perception of the
brain change. The cases given in illustration of these points are all,
however, what would be generally called illusions, and we fail to see why
Herr Parish is not satisfied to retain the ordinary usage of the words
"hallucination" and "illusion." There is no doubt that there are two
quite distinct kinds of phenomena,—illusions, in most cases clearly traceable
to external perception, which can often be reproduced at will, for their
original percipient, at least, and sometimes for others as well ; and halluci
nations which, as a rule, cannot be reproduced at all, and can rarely be
shared, and which, therefore, clearly do not depend on any perception of
external objects. The fact that it is sometimes difficult in practice to draw
the line between the two types cannot do away with the distinction between
them ; the same difficulty occurs in all attempts at classification, and it is
not only more convenient, but also more accurate, to keep the distinctions
between types in view, notwithstanding the existence of intermediate forms.
The physiological section of the essay contains also a full summary of the
long-standing dispute as to whether hallucinations are originated in the
sensory or in the ideational nerve centres, and whether the nervous changes
travel centripetally or centrifugally. Due weight is given to the many
arguments that have been brought forward on both sides, and the conclusion
is reached that both views are equally correct (or incorrect), since recent
investigations tend to show that the sensory and ideational centres occupy
the same part of the brain.
Later on, he discusses the evidence for retinal action in hallucinations,
which is drawn from their changes in colour and form according to optical
laws, and shows that the effects are probably due to association of ideas ;
similarly, in atropin poisoning and in fever delirium, both real objects
and hallucinations appear distorted,—the effects observed on real objects
being apparently transferred by association of ideas to the hallucinations.
In discussing the theory of points de repere, he thinks that we should
regard as the starting-point of the hallucination, not a single given sensory
stimulus, but the sum of all the sensory stimuli acting at the moment. We
can then explain the sensory nature of hallucinations by the participation of
the sensory nerves, while the particular form they take is determined by the
brain changes. There seems to be a certain confusion of ideas in this view.
The sensory character of hallucinations can be thus explained only if it can
be shown that, in the presence of sensory stimuli, all ideas tend to take
Supplement.I 165
Reviews.
a sensory form, which is obviously not the case. The phenomena of
" syntesthesuB "—when the stimulation of one sense leads to a hallucinatory
impression on another sense, for instance, in the case of "coloured audition,"
—lend some slight support to the view ; but, as Herr Parish justly remarks,
we know too little of the subject to be able to explain hallucinations as
" synesthesias " ; we have rather to regard syruesthesiie as hallucination*
whose regular appearance points to an automatic association, acquired very
early in life.
Many other points of general interest are raised which we have not
space here to discuss. One of the most interesting is an elaboration of
Hoppe's theory that many auditory hallucinations originate in the
percipient's unconscious articulation of his thoughts, in consequence of an
unusual intensity in the centrifugal motor innervation which is sup*losed
to accompany all verbal thinking. Without being audible to others,
the articulation might reach such a pitch as to give rise to auditory
hallucinations or illusions. This view, which refers chiefly to morbid cases,
is supported by some observations on insane patients, and Herr Parish
adduces one of his hypnotic experiments, in which the suggestion that the
subject should articulate all his thoughts did not—as he had expected—
lead to audible speech, but to an apparent impression on the part of the
subject that another person was talking. The same inaudible articulation,
carried a step further, produces enforced speaking aloud, and Herr Parish
compares the various degrees of the process to analogous stages in automatic
writing.
Passing to the results of the Census of Hallucinations, he gives a
tabular summary of the English, French, American and Gentian collections,
which contain between them 27,329 answers, of which 3,271, or 11*96 per
cent., are affirmative, 9*75 per cent. of the men and 14*57 per cent. of the
women answering in the affirmative. The relative frequency of hallucinations
in the two sexes is thus about the same as in the English collection taken
alone. It was shown by Professor Sidgwick's Committee, in their Report
on tite Census of Hallucinations, (Proceedings, S.P.R., Vol. X., p. 153), that
this result may perhaps be accounted for to some extent by women
remembering their hallucinations—at all events those recently experienced
—better than men do.
Next comes the important question of whether the statistical results
represent accurately the frequency of hallucinations. In comparing the
various Ad interim reports published by the English Committee with their
final Tables presented to the Congress, Herr Parish observed that the
percentage of affirmative answers constantly decreased in each fresh section.
While of the first 2,928 answers collected, 12*4 per cent. were affirmative ;
of the last 7,724, only 8*1 per cent. were affirmative, or, omitting the
foreign element. which belongs chiefly to the last section, only 7 0 per cent.1
On this ground, he concludes that the total percentage of 9*4 in the English-
speaking division is considerably too high, and that it can only be rectified
by further " intensive " enquiry ; a further " extensive" enquiry by which,
1 The percentage given by Herr Parish is somewhat lower, as he calculated it on
the assumption that all theforeigners belonged to the last section.
166 ISupplement.
Reviews.
so to speak, the cream is skimmed off a larger area, will only further
exaggerate the error. He thinks, in other words, that " selection " of
affirmative answers was consciously or unconsciously exercised to a large
extent.
Various arguments are, however, brought forward in the Report on the
Census (pp. 57—60) to show that "selection" has not had much influence
on the total result, and we may add here that, of the English collectors, 37
collected each at least about 100 answers, the total number collected by the
37 amounting to about 6,500, or considerably over one-third of the answers
from English-speaking persons. It seems likely that these collectors at
least must have almost exhausted their circle of acquaintances, and cannot
have merely "skimmed the cream" from them. Some of the rest of the
collection was made by their friends, whose circles of acquaintance would
have overlapped theirs, so that certain sets of people must have been pretty
thoroughly canvassed.
Then, again, as regards the part of the collection in which the percentage
is highest, viz., the Brazilian section (23-9 per cent.) its size is evidence—
considering that it was entirely the work of one man—that not much selection
can have been exercised, apart from the fact that Professor Alexander was
certainly well aware of the proper method of collecting answers. His results,
therefore, undoubtedly tend to show that hallucinations are considerably
more frequent among the Brazilians than among the English.
From these considerations it appears to us probable that the results of
the whole collection are in reality more trustworthy than that of any part of
it taken alone.
It is also noteworthy that in the German collection, although it only
amounts to a total of 625 answers, the proportion of affirmative answers
(5'95 per cent. from men, 10'72 per cent. from women, 8-16 per cent. from
both), is decidedly lower than in any of the other collections, in spite of the
apparent inclusion (see Table II., p. 229) of "yeses" relating to hallucina
tions of non-vocal sounds, which would have been excluded from the
English Tables.
As to the different frequency in different nations, Herr Parish remarks
that the existing material is hardly sufficient to form a judgment on, and it
seems to be partly on the larger proportion of "yeses" reported by the
French and Americans, as shown in his Table I. (p. 226), that he founds his
view that a more " extensive " enquiry is misleading.
But the numbers, as they stand, cannot be compared with the English
results. It is a remarkable fact that the proportion of persons originally
answering "yes" in the English and in the American collections was almost
exactly the same ; in the English, 10'5 per cent. of men, 16-1 per cent, of
women, 13-4 per cent, of both ; in the American, 10-97 per cent. of men,
17'19 per cent. of women, 13-5 per cent. of both. The English "yeses"
were reduced by counting as "noes" those which referred to experiences
clearly not within the scope of the question asked, and to experiences of a
doubtful kind, which the Committee, after careful consideration, excluded
from their Tables. (See Report on the Census, pp. 36-38.)
The French collection also contains affirmative answers which in the
English would have been counted as negative, for instance, some relating to
SupplementI 167
Reviews.
hallucinations of non-vocal sounds. If we reduce the number of affirmative
answers by allowing for these (on the basis of the French Tables in an Ad
Interim report published in the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VTI., pp. 264-7) the
French percentages are brought very near to those of the Russian section of
the English collection, and it seems probable that if the same principles of
counting had been applied throughout to the French cases as to the English,
the number of affirmative answers would have been still further reduced.
M. Marillier thought the percentage too high, as he found that some persons
who collected only "noes" did not send in their lists. (See Report of the
International Congress of Experimental Psychology, p. 65.)
Herr Parish remarks that a comparatively small number of hallucinations
are reported to occur in bed, but this, he supposes, is because the same
condition—a " dissociation of consciousness "—that leads to hallucinations,
also promotes the forgetting of them. The English Committee pointed out,
however, (Report, p. 171) that the numbers reported as occurring in bed are
verylarge, considering what a small part of our lives is generally spent awako
in bed. And if this be so, we cannot draw from them the conclusion that a
large proportion of these hallucinations are forgotten.
Herr Parish's explanation of hallucinations as due to a " dissociation of
consciousness" is clearly derived from a study of the pathological cases,
though it is possible to apply it also to dreams and hypnotic hallucinations.
He says, indeed, that in the different types of hallucinations it exists in
many different degrees, and that the profounder the dissociation, the more
" massive " is the character of the hallucination, and the more also is all
memory of it prevented. We can find, however, as a rule, no evidence of
any such " dissociation " in waking hallucinations of the kinds included in
the Census, with the exception of those that occurred in bed, which were
treated separately in the Report, on account of the difficulty of proving that
the percipient was awake in all cases. The cases he gives to illustrate the
supposed existence of the dream-consciousness occurred after long exposure
to cold and exhaustion, and are practically dreams, not waking hallucinations
at all. Mere fixation of the eyes may occasionally tend to bring about a
dreamy condition, but the English collection contained very few cases that
could be thus explained, and it would be a more serious interference with
intellectual work than experience justifies us in assuming if reading or
writing for any length of time were constantly liable to bring on the dream-
consciousness, which he suggests was the explanation of the two cases he
gives on p. 73.
Whether the state in which hallucinations such as these occur should be
called one of dream-consciousness or not, is, after all, merely a question of
verbal definition ; but Herr Parish deduces the conclusion that hallucina
tions, like dreams, are specially liable to be forgotten and therefore that the
reported numbers no more afford a true measure of the number that actually
occur than would a reported number of dreams. He admits, however, that
in sleep there is a much deeper dissociation of consciousness than in waking
hallucinations, and maintains that forgetfulness depends on this, from which
it must follow that dreams are forgotten much more than hallucinations.
And since, as a matter of common knowledge, dreams are reported very
much more frequently than hallucinations, it follows A fortiori that halluci
168 ISupplement.
Reviews.
nations are very much rarer phenomena than dreams. There is really no
evidence that memory is less reliable about hallucinations than about most
other things. The Report on the Census shows (see pp. 62—69) that the
majority of them are forgotten, but an investigation of memory with regard
to almost any other class of events would probably show similar results.
The last chapter of the essay is concerned with the question of telepathy,
which Herr Parish declares cannot at the present day be passed over in any
general discussion of hallucinations. He approaches the subject evidently
with an open mind, but it seems to us that his treatment of it is marked by
a want of discrimination of the different degrees of evidence in different
cases. There are no doubt a great many apparently veridical phenomena
—real or alleged—which, by straining a point here and there, can be
explained without having recourse to the theory of telepathy, and a study of
them is useful in revealing unsuspected sources of error. But the important
question is whether the residuum of well-ovidenced cases can be thus
explained away, and with this question Herr Parish does not attempt to
deal. The reports of the German collection, which he seems to have chiefly
studied, and a number of which are published at the end of his essay,
certainly add little or nothing to the evidence, and he did not perhaps
sufficiently realise the purely provisional nature of the Tables issued by the
English Committee at the Congress.
His criticisms have been in the main forestalled in their Report on the
Census, but it may be worth while to recapitulate and discuss them further
here. First, he remarks that in testing whether chance will account for the
number of coincidences that occur, we ought to consider only the proportion
of coincidental to non-coincidental cases recorded during the most recent
period, namely, the five years preceding the enquiry, since veridical or
coincidental cases are shown by the Tables to be remembered much better
than non-coincidental ones.
The calculations of the English Committee, as given in their Report,
were made on a much more stringent basis than this, viz , on the numbers
reported as occurring during the most recent quarter of the year before the
enquiry. The utmost degree of forgetfulness of non-coincidental cases
warranted by the facts (not by mere theoretical considerations) was assumed,
and it was also assumed that no coincidental cases at all were forgotten.
The latter is undoubtedly an extreme assumption. The Committee met
with some evidence in the Census itself of such forgetfulness (though not
indeed of the precise type of case—recognised apparitions seen at the time
of the death of the person represented—on which their calculations were
based) and some evidence also of unwillingness to mention veridical
experiences, which, if at all usual, must have unduly reduced the number
reported.
It is also, of course, probable that the disproportionately large number
of remote coincidental apparitions reported is partly due to some of them
being wrongly remembered as coincidental, rather than to any abnormal
difference of memory with regard to the two kinds of cases.
Secondly, Herr Parish considers that the proportion of coincidental to
non-coincidental cases reported during the last five years is much too high,
because it is begging the question—the question whether there are two
Supplement.! 109
Reviews.
different classes of hallucinations, one subjectively, and the other
telepathically caused—to compare the coincidental cases only with the
clearly objectified apparitions of recognised living persons. He holds that
we ought first to prove that the facts cannot be explained by one theory
covering all cases. His reasoning then proceeds as follows :—
Since for the non-telepathic explanation, both the form of the halluci
nation and the greater or less degree of its externalisation are matters of
indifference, it is necessary to prove that the veridical cases occur in a larger
proportion among all hallucinations than can be accounted for by chance.
Now, of the apparitions of recognised living persons reported to occur
during the last five years, as stated in the English Tables presented to the
Congress, 5 per cent. were coincidental. Assuming the correctness of this
proportion, then, out of the whole number of such apparitions reported—
348—there should be 17 coincidental cases. But the whole number of
hallucinations reported—visual, auditory and tactile, recognised and un
recognised,—was 1,871. Therefore the true proportion of veridical cases is
17 out of 1,871, or only '9 per cent.1 Finally, since he considers it proved
that only a very small proportion of the hallucinations that occur are
remembered, and consequently reported ; since further, there is in his view
no reason to regard illusions (in the ordinary sense of the word) as
essentially different from hallucinations, or to separate dreams from waking
hallucinations, the veridical cases thus dwindle to an infinitely small
proportion.
It is remarkable that Herr Parish can have gone through this carefully
elaborated piece of reasoning without discovering that the assumption
on which the whole is based is altogether arbitrary and unwarrantable.
If we wish to find the true proportion of veridical cases among all kinds of
hallucinations—including in the term illusions and dreams—it is surely
obvious that we ought to take all kinds of veridical cases, including veridical
illusions and dreams, also cases coinciding with other events than death, as
well as premonitory cases. It cannot be correct to apply a restriction to
veridical cases which is not also applied to the whole group of cases with
which they are to be compared.
No doubt it would be an instructive—though a somewhat lengthy—
process to discover what proportion veridical experiences of all types bear
to all experiences of the same type. We should probably find the pro
portions different in different types, because it is most likely that telepathy
manifests itself more easily along some lines than along others. There
seems reason to think, for instance, that it has a special tendency to produce
hallucinations. The particular type of case selected in the Census—
apparitions of recognised living persons —was chosen as that in which the
calculation of chance coincidence could, for obvious reasons, be estimated
probably more accurately than in any other.
The whole argument for telepathy, however, of course turns on the
question whether the reports of veridical cases are t trustworthy. Assuming
the bona fides of the witnesses, are their recollections to be trusted 1 Herr
1 Several arithmetical errors were made in this calculation, which we have
corrected for the benefit of readers,
P
170 (Supplement
Reviews.
Parish follows, or rather goes far beyond Professor Royce, in maintaining
that a large number of cases can be referred to "pseudo-memories,"—an
irresistible conviction that some event which did not really occur has
been experienced, a hallucination of memory as vivid and convincing and
of necessity more difficult to correct than a sensory hallucination. The
theory was elaborated by Professor Royce in the Proceedings of the American
Society for Psychical Research (Vol. I., pp. 366 et seq), but was put forward
by him as a pure hypothesis, applicable only to a certain number of
cases, chiefly dreams and mental impressions, not externalised waking
hallucinations. He himself admitted that there were many apparently
veridical cases to which it would not apply. The only definite evidence in
favour of this hypothesis was drawn from a very small number of morbid
cases. Illusions of memory, i.e., inaccurate recollections of real events, are,
of course, common enough, and are one of the errors that have always
to be guarded against. Herr Parish gives an instance known to himself
of a lady who dreamt that a certain estate was sold for the price of
750,000 poodles. Soon after, an offer was made to buy it for 750,000
marks, whereupon not only the lady herself, but many of her friends, were
convinced that she had dreamt of marks instead of poodles. The story does
not appear to rest on the kind of evidence that we should require from
one which was supposed to illustrate telepathy, but assuming that it is
accurately reported, it is merely an illusion of memory of a familiar kind.
If the lady had had no dream at all with regard to selling the estate, a
hallucination of memory to the effect that she had dreamt of it would
have been a much more remarkable error, different in kind rather than
in degree.
The argument against chance coincidence is thus disposed of in a whole
sale manner by premising (1) that a very large number of non-coincidental
hallucinations occur, whereas only very few of them are remembered, and
(2) that the great majority of coincidental hallucinations that are remembered
never occurred at all, but are to be put down to hallucinations of memory.
The analogy, however, of hypnotic cases, on which Herr Parish in general
lays so much stress, would lead us to suppose that a revival of apparent
memory is more often genuine than hallucinatory. The memory of what
has happened during hypnosis may often be revived by a few words bearing
but very remotely on the subject. (For examples, see Moll's Hypnotism,
English Translation, p. 125.) So far as dreams go, we are often reminded of
them by some slight incident, and there is no reason to distrust the accuracy
of such recollections.
Herr Parish argues further that the method of calculation of chance
coincidence is fallacious, because the probability of coincidence is different
in each case. Supposing that the percipient is nursing her mother who is ill
with pneumonia and 75 years old, it is comparatively probable (a) that
" among other hallucinations and dreams " some will relate to the mother,
and also (6) that the mother may die at the time of one of these " hallucina
tions and dreams." These are obvious considerations—except the assump
tion of the frequency of hallucinations under such circumstances. But it
was shown in the Report on the Census (see pp. 167-171), that there is little
evidence for the production of hallucinations by anxiety. Also in most of
SupplementI 171
Reviews.
the cases there presented as affording evidence for telepathy, the percipient
was in no anxiety at all, and there was therefore no antecedent probability
that his "hallucinations and dreams" would relate to the dying person.
With regard to the age of the dying person, this, of course, affects the
probability of death in any individual case, but the method of averages is
misleading only if the average of all the individual cases considered differs
fromthe standard average. Thus, if the coincidental apparitions were only of
persons dying at advanced ages, it would be incorrect to use as a factor in
the calculation the annual death-rate for the whole population. Now, the
ages of the decedents in the coincidental cases included in the English
collection were unfortunately not always given, but the circumstances
generally enable us to estimate them roughly. Such an estimate of those 35
cases which were published in the Report on the Census as supported by
more or less good evidence, gives the following results : —
Age at Death. Number of Cases.
From 6 months to 25 years. 9
From 25 to 55 years. 11
Over 55 years. 15
Of the last 15 cases, there are 4 in which the decedent was very likely
under 55 years old, while of the middle 11 cases, there are two in which he
may have been under 25.
From the Tables of Expectation of Life compiled from the reports of
the Registrar General, we find that out of 100 persons (taking men and
women together), 32 die under 25 years of age, 22 between the ages of 25
and 55, and 46 over 55 years. Out of 35 persons, the corresponding
numbers would be 11, 8, and 16 respectively, which are not very different
from the numbers in the Census cases just quoted. It follows that the
average probability of death in these cases was about the same as in the
population generally, and therefore that it is legitimate to use the annual
death-rate as a factor in the calculation.
If. however, Herr Parish's treatment of the evidence for telepathy will
hardly seem adequate to those who take a more favourable view of it than
he does, it must be remembered that this forms merely a subordinate
part of his book. To psychologists and to those interested in the
general study of hallucinations, his wide knowledge, his capacity for
the orderly marshalling of facts, and his careful and impartial discussions
of disputed points, will make his work of great value, if not indispensable,
and should rank him among recognised authorities on the subject.
Alice Johkson.
V.
Birista di Studi Psichici ; Periodico Mensile. Edited by Dr. G. B.
Ermacora (Padua), and Dr. G. Finzi (Milan).
In spite of the prevailingly positive character of scientific thought in
Italy, psychical studies have in the last few years gained a firm footing
there, partly, no doubt, owing to the modified adherence of such eminent
men as Lombroso and Schiaparelli, but still more to the active work of the
172 ISupplement
Reviews.
two editors of the new periodical, whose names will be familiar to all
students of the Proceedings. We are heartily glad to see that the subject
has now progressed so far as to call for the establishment of a special organ,
to which we offer a most cordial welcome.
The first number, issued last January, opens with a most suggestive and
interesting address by the editors, " Ai nostri lettori." It takes as its text
" Misoneism," the resistance of the human mind to the entrance of new
ideas, as shown, of course, in the attitude of the scientific world towards
psychical studies. A new idea, the editors say, means a modification of
brain-substance ; but all living beings tend to resist anything that causes
an expenditure of energy, and therefore anything that tends to modify
their organs. This resistance to change, among other effects, produces in
the region of thought a secondary form of " positivism." Scientific
positivism is the progressive adaptation of the intelligence solely and
entirely to the facts of experience ; this operates to the good of the species.
But there is another sort of positivism which may be called that of the
individual economy ; this urges the individual to avoid the necessity of new
and painful adaptations of the intellect involving expenditure of energy,
and therefore operates hurtfully to progress. A man conscious that he is
a factor in the advance of humanity will always be subject to the opposition
of these two sorts of positivism, and is tempted to confound with scientific
positivism that which is only the expression of his own individual desire to
avoid painful effort. The psychical enquirer must endeavour, in the first
place, to accept as fact nothing but fact, but at the same time he must not
shirk the painful effort to adapt his mind, by gradual steps, from ideas
already familiar, to those which are new, and that with the least possible
waste of intellectual energy.
After this introduction, which is closed by a long letter of good wishes
from Carl du Prel, the number contains one rather curious case of
apparition at the time of death or shortly afterwards—a collective hallucina
tion of two sisters living near Rovigo, in 1874 ; translations of two other
cases from the October number of our Journal ; the first part of a popular
exposition of the present state of our knowledge with respect to telepathy,
by Dr. Ermacora ; a translation of an extraordinary case published by Dr.
Li£beault in the January, 1894, number of the Revue dtVHypnotisme ; notes
on the Census of Hallucinations, on spirit-identity, and on the exposure of
Mrs. Williams ; and finally a long and highly complimentary review of Mr.
Podmore's Apparitions and Thought-transference, again by Dr. Ermacora.
He has some good criticisms to make ; and ends by expressing an earnest
hope that the work may soon be translated into Italian, " because the
popularization of psychic science begins with telepathy, because there is in
our language no book which adequately treats of the subject, and because
Podmore's work is the one which most thoroughly attains this end."
Walter Leaf.
General Meetings.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The "2nd General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, April 5th, at 4 p.m. ; Professor
Sidgwick in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read and commented on various cases of
Premonition, forming part of a paper on "The Relation of Subliminal
Phenomena to Time," which will be published in a future number of
the Proceedings.
The 73rd General Meeting was held in the same place, on Friday,
May 17th, at 8.30 p.m. ; Mr. R. Pearsall Smith in the chair.
Mr. Andrew Lang's paper on "The Voices of Jeanne d'Arc,"
printed below, was read by Mrs. Lang.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read a further part of his paper on " The
Relation of Subliminal Phenomena to Time."
The 74th General Meeting was held in the same place, on Friday,
July 5th, at 4 p.m. ; Professor Sidgwick in the chair.
Professor W. F. Barrett read a paper on "Human Personality,
in the light of, and in its relation to, Psychical Research," which it is
hoped to publish in a future number of the Proceedings.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read the paper on " Resolute Credulity,"
printed below.
17-1 Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
I.
SOME EXPERIMENTS ON THE SUPERNORMAL
ACQUISITION OF KNOWLEDGE.
By Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
For the last five years, at irregular intervals and with many
interruptions, I have been making experiments in " guessing " ordinary
playing cards; I have varied the conditions, with a view to testing
some of the suggested causes of success —hyperesthesia, telepathy,
clairvoyance, or telsesthesia—and I will now describe and attempt to
classify the results. The number of experiments is in no single series
great enough to justify me in looking upon any suggested explanation
as proved ; at the same time, the evidence seems to point to certain
conclusions, and perhaps the publication of my attempts may induce
others to carry on similar experiments, which may result in more
assured conclusions.
I ought to say that I have recorded carefully at the time each
experiment ; occasionally, on beginning a new series, a few preliminary
trials were made with a view to ascertaining what would be the most
convenient way of carrying out a proposed experiment, but as soon as
the method was determined on, every experiment has been recorded.
Where another person—my little girl—was concerned, I took the
precaution of assigning marks for success to each of us, using the
marks as a means of testing the accuracy of the record. Thus I noted
the cards drawn and guesses made, she reckoned in her head the marks
obtained by each of us. When the series for the evening was finished,
she would say what marks each had obtained and I would revise my
notes. We never found any discrepancy, so I may take it as certain
that my records are substantially correct. The rough notes were taken
on loose sheets of paper, copied into a book, and compared the next
day with the originals. I have no guarantee to offer of the accuracy
of the notes taken when I was alone beyond that of my desire to avoid
error and my knowledge that extreme care is necessary to do so. In
every case the guess has been recorded before the actual card was
looked at. In cases where it was necessary to cancel a guess—perhaps
because the card fell over on its face or might otherwise have been
observed—the fact of the cancelling has been recorded, though the
guess has, of course, not been reckoned.
The experiments have almost all been made after five o'clock in the
evening, some before dinner, some after—nearly all, therefore, by
Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge. 175
artificial light. The series have often been interrupted, sometimes
unavoidably, sometimes voluntarily. When I have l>een specially
busy, or have felt thoroughly disinclined for guessing cards, I have not
continued a series. But if one experiment has been made, I have
always continued on that occasion till the regular number has been
completed ; my usual number at a sitting has been 5 or 10.
The experiments made fall into five classes, divided according to
the supposed cause of success, if success there were. They were
arranged to test the following possible causes of successful guessing of
unperceived cards :—
A.—Delicate and cultivated sense of touch—the fingers consciously
feeling the face of the card.
B.—Momentary contact—one finger being placed for an instant on
the back of the card.
C—Telepathy, of various kinds, direct and indirect.
D.—Hyperesthesia.
K—Telesthesia.
I have some difficulty in giving names to the supposed causes in
these last two classes, D and E, but as one of the senses (touch or
sight) has always been employed, though the information has not been
consciously obtained through it, I have called the cause provisionally
hyperesthesia, where the card has been known to no intelligence
before it was guessed, and telesthesia, where the knowledge
has been present in one mind and conveyed to the other, not directly
as a mental image, but indirectly and apparently through the tactile
sense of the person guessing. I will explain my meaning more fully
when I come to these classes.
It will be seen that class A is more nearly akin to class D than to
any other, and that C and E are possibly closely connected. But as
the whole classification is provisional, I have thought it better to deal
with the five groups in something like chronological sequence.
A.—Serine of Touch.
I was led to try experiments in the direction of ascertaining how
far it was possible to know a card by feeling its face, after some other
trials had shown me how much easier it was than I had supposed to
see the reflection of a card. I had dealt cards out over a polished
wooden surface, by lamplight, and had seen every card with ease ; I
found the same results when I used an ordinary leather-covered writing
table, and by a careful arrangement of lights, was able to see enough
of the cards reflected on a well ironed white linen table-cloth to enable
me to distinguish with certainty between picture and non-picture cards,
black and red, and so on. I could not distinguish 3 of Hearts from
Q 2
176 Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
3 of Diamonds, but I dare say I should soon have acquired the skill,
had I persevered.
I then went on to see if I could distinguish between a picture and a
plain card after passing over the surface the sides of my thumbs. I
found it quite easy to do so, and in a pack that I had used a few times
I was able to pick out the picture cards with very few errors. I now
began a regular series with a view to learning to distinguish each card
by touch. I drew a card, felt it without looking at it, guessed it,
recorded the guess, put the card aside, and drew the next. After
every 10 or 15 cards, I turned up the cards which had been laid aside
in a regular sequence, entered the results in the book, shuffled, and
began again. I did not put each card back and then shuffle, as I
found it very important to perform the feeling process rapidly, and my
fingers—or rather thumbs—seemed to lose their sensitiveness if I
constantly re-adjusted the cards. As, however, I did not know
whether my guesses were correct or not, I do not think the probable
number of successes was materially affected by this method. I made
50 guesses in an evening, and went on till I had 400 guesses in all.
For the results see Table, Series A I. p. 194.
Taking the separate evenings, the completely correct guesses were
distributed as follows : 3, 2, 9, 6, 4, 2, 3, 5.
I found that the art of feeling the number of the pips was one that
could be learnt : in that of perceiving the suit I made no conscious
progress. The figures on the separate evenings were as follows ;—
Number of pips right; 10,8,13,14,8,8,6,16 = 83; most
probable total, 31.
Suit right: 18, 17, 17, 16, 14, 13, 10, 16 = 121; most probable
total, 100.
Before leaving this Series I., I may note a curious instance o£
an illusory mental impression as to how the guess was made. I
am a very good visualiser, and as soon as I think of a card, see a mental
picture of it. On the 3rd night, i.e., after 100 guesses, I found that I
was mentally reversing these processes, and had it not been for my
experiences of the two preceding evenings should have said, not that I
felt, but that I saw the card. From this time to the end of the
experiments. T ceased to be conscious of the process by which I learnt
what the cards were.
This experience has not been without interest to me in leading me
to mistrust any personal impression, however distinct, as to how a
conclusion has been reached. [See Appendix A., p. 190.]
Since trying these experiments, I have had the sensitiveness of the
skin of my hands tested, with a view to ascertaining whether there is
any reason to suppose that I have greater natural facilities than most
Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge. 177
people for recognising cards by feeling theii surfaces. It was found
that the sensitiveness of the skin of the hands, as tested by placing
small weights upon it, was not more than normal, and as tested by
Weber's test, it was not more than nonnal except along the inner edge
of the left thumb, where the sensitiveness was as high as at the point
of the index finger, which is unusual.
B.—Momentary Contact. Pure Guessing.
Side by side with the series just described I carried on some experi
ments with a view to testing the results of pure guesswork. I took the
top card of the pack without looking, put my hands on it and guessed.
I was careful not to move my lingers over the card nor to look at it. I
kept my hands on it merely to make some connection ; I waited for no
impression, but guessed as quickly as I could get my mind to form a
choice. I never seemed to have any reason for guessing one card more
than another, and often had great difficulty in making a reasonable
guess. Such phrases as " Queen of roses," " 6 of shadows " came
constantly to my lips. For results see Table, B II, p. 194.
C.— Telepathy.
The experiments in telepathy that I am considering in this paper
have all been made with my little girl, now aged 1 1 I have made
experiments with her, being myself either agent or percipient, from
the time she was four or five years old, using occasionally other objects
than cards, and I have once or twice received spontaneous impressions
.which I am inclined to believe were derived telepathically from her.
The record of an earlier series of experiments with cards has been
published in the Journal S.P.R., Vol. IV., p. 33. The experiments in
telepathy now to be mentioned are of two kinds, direct and indirect ;
in the direct experiments, Series III., she (or I) would draw a card and
look at it, and I (or she) would guess. The guess was always recorded
before the actual card was mentioned. In the indirect experiments,
Series IV., a card was drawn by one of us from a pack, the back was
looked at by both, a guess made by each, recorded, and the card then
turned over and the face looked at by both. As to our success in
guessing these cards correctly I shall speak when I come to the next
class of experiments, D. I have counted and classified in Series IV.
the cases in which our guesses (whether right or wrong) coincided, and
it is this series which I mean by the experiments in indirect telepathy.
The general results of these card experiments in telepathy, direct
and indirect, is negative—that is, there is no evidence in favour of
telepathy. For the actual figures see Tables. There is a slight excess
over the figures given by probability in the Series IV., but not enough
to warrant the drawing of any conclusion in favour of telepathy.
178 Mrs. A. W. Yen-all.
Another series, III b., in which H. was percipient, should be
mentioned. To vary the experiments in direct telepathy, which were
very dreary work for a child, we started a series in which instead of
guessing the whole card at once the percipient guessed in three stages,
receiving the answer "Yes," or "No," before the next guess. Thus,
" Picture Card".—" No." " Diamonds."—"Yes." " Eight."—"No."
The success was somewhat greater in this series (which is included
in C Ilia in the Table), but the experiments soon proved as dull as the
others, and we abandoned them.
The extreme difficulty in keeping up any interest in this "very dull
game" may account for the failure of the experiments. In the original
series, some years ago, the child was quite unfamiliar with cards, and
much interested in them. On the occasions I am now discussing, the
cards themselves were no longer interesting to her, and she was keenly
anxious to be successful and correspondingly depressed at failure.
In the course of the experiments in direct telepathy, we had some
interesting experiences, which are perhaps worth noting for the benefit
of future investigators. On one occasion, when I had drawn a card
and was holding it as usual, with the light of the lamp on it, H. said
" 3 of clubs ; I saw that through the back, against the light." We
proceeded to investigate and found that in some circumstances it was
possible to see the pips through, although it was not easy to do so
unless we put the card actually against the globe. On another occasion
I was looking at 8 of hearts, and H. guessed 7 of hearts, adding ;
" That must not count, for I heard you say hearts." On further
inquiry, she said that she heard —t, — t, —t, —t, and then 'art, 'art
'art. My attention had, as I knew, wandered on this occasion, and it
is possible that I did say the word unconsciously. I had a cold, and
my breathing was more difficult and louder than usual. We never
had another similar experience. These guesses just mentioned do not
appear in the tables. I mention them here because they suggest a
possible explanation where the number of successes in thought-transfer
ence is slightly higher than probability would lead us to expect—viz.,
the including of a few cases where the information was conveyed by
the ordinary channels, neither agent nor percipient observing that such
was the case.
As bearing on the question of telepathy between H. and myself, I
add two notes, one on a case of apparent spontaneous telepathy, the
other on experimental telepathy where the interest of both agent and
percipient was greater than in the case of the experiments with cards.
Apparent Spontaneous Telepathy, between H. and myself.
On January 22nd, 1891, I was sitting alone in a perfectly dark
room, with my two hands on a small wooden table. At this time I
Supemoimal Acquisition of Knowledge. 179
was in the habit of sitting in this way every day for a quarter of an
hour, but nothing had so far occurred of any kind. On January 22nd
I went into the drawing-room at 5.45, and left when the clock struck
six. When I had sat for about 10 minutes I saw a bright spot of
light, which, however, disappeared when I looked fixedly at it ; a
moment after, I had a very clear vision in another part of the room of
a golden key, very large and bright. I shut my eyes, and on opening
them again saw the key. This persistence of a vision is quite unlike
my experience in crystal-gazing. The handle was towards my right,
the wards to my left ; the key was nearly horizontal, the handle
slightly higher, as it would be if the key were lying on the ground
with the wards nearer to me than the handle. But in the absence of
any object to compare with the key, I could not say whether it was
represented as lying on the ground.
The phenomena I was looking out for were not of this nature, and
as I happened to be interrupted just as I left the room, I unfortunately
made no note at the time. About 7 o'clock H., aged 7J years, came
back from a small children's party in a great state of excitement about
a magic lantern, which she much regretted that I had not seen. The
story represented was that of Bluebeard and the " golden key." This
key, she said, appeared in several of the pictures, one, " a dreadful one,
with the key lying in the blood."
On hearing this, I noted my own vision and the time, 5.55 p.m.,
with a sketch of the key—and H.'s account, as above given. Two
days later I was able to see the slides, and fix the hour of the perform
ance. The show began, the hostess told me, at 20 minutes or a quarter
to 6, and lasted about a quarter of an hour. The more sensational
slides had been omitted, and there was no picture with the key lying
in the blood. The key appeared 3 times, once held by Bluebeard, once
by Fatima, and once lying on the ground, in the same position as I had
seen it, but reversed ; i.e., with the handle to the left. In no picture
was the key golden.
It was clear then that my vision did not reproduce anything that
had been actually seen by the child, although it seemed to have
occurred at the time when she was seeing the pictures and wishing that
I could do so also. It should also be noted that the child's own
account to me did not reproduce exactly what she had seen. It was
not till some years later that I discovered by accident that in the first
version she had ever read of Bluebeard, a French one, the key was
golden. The staining of the key with the blood is, of course, an
essential element in the story, and H.'s account of the show suggests
that the central incident to her mind was the golden key lying in the
blood. If then, my vision were due to something more than chance,
H. seems to have conveyed to me a symbolic representation of the
180 Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
story as conceived by her rather than a reproduction of the actual
picture at which she was looking.
Apparent Thought-transference of Clearly Visualised Scenes, I being
percipient.
In the autumn of 1893 we tried to transfer visualised scenes ; in
this I believe myself to have had some slight success as percipient with
other people. H. and I sat in the same room, at some distance, back
to back ; she thought of a scene or picture, I looked at the ceiling,
described what I saw, and drew it. There was not complete silence,
but no leading questions were asked, and very few remarks made. I
took down at the time, on one occasion, every word that was said, and
am sure that no sort of hint is given by H., other than the
inevitable one of satisfaction or disappointment, of which I am
conscious, though it is not expressed. After my description and
drawing were complete, H. made rough outlines in some cases where
her description was not definite enough to please her. She did this
before seeing my drawings. We have made in all 7 attempts, besides
2 where I had no impression of any kind. Out of these 7, in 2 cases
H.'s visualisation was not clear enough to enable her to draw anything,
and in these two cases I failed completely. In one case, there may
have been a connection between my impression and H.'s mental
picture ; the four remaining cases I will describe in detail.
(a). My description was as follows :—
Darkish centre, perhaps brown ; light or white side pieces, like an
odd-shaped chandelier or a gigantic white butterfly. Most conspicuous
vivid blue background, as if the object were seen against a bl ight blue
sky. My drawing is reproduced on the Plate, marked P.l.
H.'s picture, in her own words :—
Ship leaving Port Uarin, very tall, brown, central mast, white
sails—the whole showing against a brilliant blue sea, with dark brown
rocks on one side. For H.'s drawing, see Plate, fig. A. 1.
She had seen this on the Cornish coast, when on a visit without
me, and had been struck with the beauty of colouring. She was
disappointed at my not seeing the rocks.
(4.) My description; —
Fat insect—no, child—child with its back to me, and arms and legs
stretched out ; colour reddish brown in the centre ; shiny bright head,
very solid body. (See Plate, fig. P. 2.)
H.'s picture :—
Baby , in a passion, standing in the corner with his face to
the wall.
The child in question had very shining, bright hair, much brighter,
Supernormal Acquisition of Knoidedge. 181
as H. said, than his frock, which was white (not brown). He stood
with legs and arms outstretched,
(c.) My description :—
Large globe on the top of a pillar — base indistinct—cannot
?ee colour of globe ; it is light, has reflections, is dazzling and bright—
perhaps an electric light on the top of a pillar. (See Plate, fig. P.3.)
H.'s picture :—
Sun setting behind point of hill, so that a little notch is taken out
of the disc of the sun by the point of the hill. The whole scene is
distant, lower ranges of hills leading up to the highest, behind this is
the setting sun. Mist over the lower part. (Sff Plate, tig. A.3.)
(i£) My description, verbatim. H.'s comments in italics.
"Scene, outdoors—colour, green. Yes.
" Right hand definite, left hand undefined, e.g., on right hand,
mountain or hill, line of trees, house. Which f
" Right hand, hill—green hill, clear outline. Something at bottom
of hill, behind it sea—or before it. Purplish flat surface fills middle
of picture. Object [at foot of hill] not natural—geometrical in out
line. Hmv large 1
"Can't see size ; colour, white and red. No horizontal lines ; [lines]
vertical and aslant."
H.'s picture :—
Dieppe as seen from the steamer (6 months before ; H.'s first
impression of a French town). Cliff sharply defined on right ; on left,
view cut off by the steamer. Red and white houses below the white
cliff in the green hill, all seen across a dull bluish sea.
I have given the account of this impression in detail because it
illustrates the difficulties which I experience in what I may call inter
pretation. The objects present themselves to my mind as groups of
lines, accompanied by an impression of colour, but there are no external
objects for comparison, so that it is difficult to get any notion of their
size—and sometimes, as in this last case, they appear in succession, so
that even their relative proportions are not easy to determine. The
"object at the foot of the hill" seemed to be equally likely to be a house
with a red roof and white front, a red waggon with a white load, or a
child's white pinafore against a red dress. The only certainties were
that the main colours were red and white, and the general trend of the
lines vertical and aslant. The description is, I think, not inaccurate
when referred to the view of Dieppe at the foot of the cliffs. Again
in the 3rd case, it will be seen that in general outlines the two drawings
are similar, but I interpreted my impression on too small a scale when
I suggested a globe of electric light carried on a pillar for what was
the sun momentarily resting upon the hill top.
182 Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
D.—Hyperesthesia.
The card experiments under this head fall into two main divisions
—viz. : (1) Those already spoken of, where two persons guess; (2)
Other experiments in which I alone looked at or touched the pack
of cards.
I will begin with the first division, Series V. and Va.1 I have
already partly described the method, and will only add that I shuffled
and H. drew the card, that on forming a guess each person said
" Now," that when both " Now's " had been said, H. spoke her guess, I
mine. I recorded both, and then the card was turned up. I shuffled
after each guess, and we guessed 10 at a sitting. The reason that H.
mentioned her guess before I did was that I thought that, as she was.
quite a child at the time, she might be influenced to change her card
if she heard mine before recording her impression. I may have been
influenced in the same way, but at least I was aware of the danger.
The first series was in February, 1890; the next in October, 1890, with
a fresh pack ; the two short series were in January, 1891, and May,.
1892. Some preliminary experiments with an old and defective pack
were successful, and we then began the regular series. For results see
Table, p. 195.
It will be seen that, taking the totals, the success is marked, and
so it is in each of the long series. The cards were different in each of
the four series. In the first series we used a pack which had been
occasionally used for piquet, and there was a slight difference in the
appearance of the cards that had been more often used. The difference,
however, was so slight that H. did not notice it when I drew her
attention to it, and I was myself unable, at the end of the experiments,
to sort the piquet cards from the others. Still it is possible that the
difference, slight as it was, may have helped me to guess the cards
rightly. There was a perceptible progress in my guessing of the
numbers of cards : 6, 5, 7, 13, 10 (total 41), being the totals correct
in each 50, while the total of suits correctly guessed by me was
precisely in accordance with probability—viz., 62.
For the second series, in October, 1890, we used a fresh pack, with
backs dark in general colouring and well covered. They were not
unused, but were entirely unfamiliar to me and quite new to H. I
was not so successful in guessing numbers (22 instead of 41), while I
was nearly as good in guessing cards (9 for 10). The results with
H. were not quite so good as those in the first series (number right,
22 ; card right, 9 ; instead of 26 and 14 respectively). The third
series was unavoidably interrupted ; the only interesting point about
it was the striking example it offered of what I have observed on other
1 The guesses are identical with those in Series IV., described above.
Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge. 183
occasions, namely, the tendency to be distinctly good or bad, rather
than indifferent, in this special form of guessing. On one evening, out
of 10 guesses, I was right 6 times as to suit and 3 times as to number,
thus scoring half my total, both of "number right " and "suit right,"
on one of the four nights. The 4th series promised well, but was also
unfortunately interrupted. The cards in this series were pale in
colouring and had not been used by either of us before.
I made a careful examination of the cards correctly guessed in the
first and last sets of this series (V.) with a view to determining the
question whether the large number of successes—obviously beyond
what chance would produce—was due to recognition, conscious or
unconscious, of cards previously drawn. Such an explanation will not
account for everything ; in the first 10 attempts in the 4th series,
for instance, I guessed 2 cards correctly, 2 of diamonds and 6 of
diamonds. Of these, 2 of diamonds was drawn again nearly a month
later and rightly guessed by H., while 6 of diamonds was drawn
again on the same night and incorrectly guessed by us both. In the
first set of 250, my 10 completely correct guesses represented 8 cards,
and H.'s 14 completely correct guesses represented 5 cards, but in all
cases the cards correctly guessed were turned up on other occasions
and not rightly guessed.
I now come to the second division of this Class D—viz. : solitary
experiments in guessing cards without excluding the senses of sight or
touch, but without applying them to the faces of the cards. The
whole series where I used my eyes I will call VI., but I will treat
separately of the five sets of experiments. The series in which I used
only the sense of touch I call VII. In July, 1892, after the conclusion
of the double series just described, I began a set of experiments alone.
I shuffled the cards, picked up the top one, being careful not to touch
the face, looked at the back and made a guess. I used a pack of cards
that had been used, I think, for some of our telepathic experiments,
but the backs of which I had not examined. With these I made 100
trials (see VI. 1, Table, p. 195).
I then bought a new pack, thick, well glazed, with dark well
covered backs, with gilding on them. I chose them with a view to
trying success under what I believed to be the worst possible
conditions, as I have a fancy that it is easier to guess when the backs
are pale in colour and not highly glazed. The results are shown in
VI. 2; see Table, p. 195.
The next series (VI. 3) was a very short one ; the pack was
another perfectly new one, with pale but well covered backs.
The next 30 (VI. 4), some months later, were tried with a new
and unused pack, and the last 20 (VI. 5) with a pack specially opaque.
The most marked results were with the familiar pack, but I ought
184 Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
to say that in the 2nd set with the new pack, out of the four cards
correctly guessed, 3 were guessed at their first appearance, the 4th at
its second ; but this one, as well as two of the others, was drawn again
and incorrectly guessed. Comparing these results with those obtained
in the double experiments of the same kind, I am convinced that the
whole explanation is not to be found, as I once thought, in the identifi
cation of certain cards by marks on their backs, though this may occur
and help to produce the success.
The last series I tried (No. VII) was one where I used touch only ;
this ran concurrently with set 2 of series VI. I shut my eyes, during
shuffling and drawing, and placed one finger of the left hand on the
back of the selected card. I had some difficulty in obtaining impres
sions at all, even after waiting some time. The results were not more
than what chance might give, 2 complete successes in 100 guesses.
Before going on to record our most recent experiences, I may
perhaps here mention some of my own impressions as to the way in
which my knowledge was obtained in the more successful series, though
I place very little confidence in the trustworthiness of such impressions.
I will also here mention some delusions which I had, and some cases
where I seem to have misinterpreted my impressions.
Generally, when looking at the back of a card, I see a sort of ridge
or ridges along it which represent the face to me. For instance, a 4 or
6 will have a longitudinal ridge at each side, a 2 or 3 one central ridge,
a 5 and an ace run down to a hollow, but the 5 is more distinctly
raised at the edges than the ace ; 7 and 8 seem to be closely alike, all
over little ups and downs, and so, again, are 9 and 10, while the
picture cards present a curious uniformity of surface, with no ridges
at all. At one time I thought certain cards were more inclined than
others to spin on the surface on which I placed them, but on making
experiments I could not find that this was the case. On several
occasions I convinced myself that impressions as to marks on the
back were complete delusions ;—e.g., in the last of the 2nd set of 250
(Series IV. and V.) a card was drawn which I thought looked like king
of diamonds ; we had drawn king of diamonds earlier in the evening
and on its back I had noticed five little marks close together. I saw-
five nearly similar marks on the card in question, and (note the dream
like- quasi reasoning !) guessed queen of diamonds. The card was king
of diamonds. Of course I at once said that it was marked, but H.
declared she could see nothing. I undertook to pick it out of the
pack. I went through the whole pack, and laid aside two cards as
having little marks, like in kind, but not identical with those on the
king. These two cards proved to be the knave and the 2 of diamonds,
but I had failed to find the king, and on close examination could see no
trace of any kind of mark on it. Again, when alone, I was sure that
Supernornud Acquisition of Knoivledge. 185
a card was " very like " the last one—king of clubs (correctly guessed)
—and therefore decided to guess queen of clubs. But immediately
after I felt sure that it was a spade. So I guessed queen of spadi's.
The card was a king of spades-—obviously more like king of clubs than
any other. Had I reasoned correctly from my impression, I should
have guessed correctly. As it was I failed.
On another occasion, after some successful guesses alone, I showed
the cards to my husband to see if he could see any marks or ridges on the
backs. I gave him ace of diamonds which I had just guessed correctly,
but he could see nothing. I drew another, and handed it to him : he
gave it back (on a book) saying it was possible that there was
something down the middle. I looked and said, " No ; now the 10 is
an odd card ; I have never guessed a 10 right. This may In; a 10—yes,
it is a 10, I should think hearts." It was 10 of spades. This guess is,
of course, not counted in the series.
Once again, alone, I drew a card, and thought it was an ace ;—then
my attention having been called to the backs by a small tear in the
first card drawn that evening, I noticed equal signs of use at the top
and bottom of this card, and concluded that it was a reversible card.
I therefore (notice the absuid inference) decided that it was not an ace.
I made no guess, and cancelled the trial, as it was obviously not
spontaneous guessing. The card was ace of diamonds, the one
reversible ace.
These cases seem to tell against the theory that success is due to
the perception of actual marks on the bucks of the cards, too slight to
be easily seen ; for the signs which seemed to guide me had probably
no actual existence. On the other hand, the appearance of something
on the back—ridges, hollows, ifec.—more or less corresponding with the
face of the card, taken together with the fact that I had no success in
guessing when my eyes were shut, suggests to me that the stamping of
the pictures and pips on the cards may possibly produce indications on
the backs, which are visible under some conditions and to some persons.
As illustrating the possibility of hyperesthesia, see in Appendix B,
the account of some experiments with diagrams in contact with the
percipient, but not consciously felt ; but as they were known to the
agent, telepathy may have been the cause.
E.—Telctsthesia.
The last series of which I have to speak were undertaken after I
had read an account of experiments by M. Roux in the Annales dn$
'Science* Psychiqtues, July, 1893. We selected the 13 cards of one
suit out of two packs, and the agent took those of one pack, the per
cipient those of the other. The agent drew a card from her pack and
looked at it. The percipient with eyes shut sat at some distance with
186 Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
her back to the agent, holding her own pack, with the backs of the
pards towards her, in her left hand. The percipient transferred her 13
cards from left to right hand slowly until she had a wish to stop at any
particular card. This card was reckoned as her "guess." In the first
series, in which H. acted as agent, I had no success. I seldom felt any
impulse, and often went through the whole 13 cards and began again,
choosing at random (I always kept my eyes shut) but very soon I
recognised the cards by touch, and this naturally spoilt the experi
ment. I had probably unconsciously recognised the cards by touch
before my conscious attention was drawn to the fact. On looking
back at the record I find that I " guessed "—that is, stopped at—
the same card twice in one evening (5 trials ) and on six out of
the first twelve evenings, namely, on the 1st, 4th, 6th, 10th, 11th, 12th.
On the 13th evening I stopped at the 10 for my second guess, again
for my third, and again for my fourth. I was conscious on this
occasion of recognising it, that is, I was conscious of a certain
familiarity in the card which made me wish to select it. On the next
night, I stopped at the 7 for my first guess, and could not get rid of
it, selecting it four times out of five. After we had finished I tried
to select the 7 by deliberately feeling the cards, but failed. I mention
these facts because they seem to me to confirm the earlier experiments
as to the facility of learning to recognise a card by touch. At the
same time they seem to show that the amount of skill which can be
attained in such matters is far beyond what the experimenter is able
consciously to exert.
For the purpose of the particular experiment I was anxious to try,
this delicacy of touch was most inconvenient. We went on, however,
with the experiments with a new suit, and later on tried 26 cards
(two suits) at a time instead of one. For results see Series VIII. and
Villa, Table, p. 196. The packs were altered between the two sets of
each series.
Taking these two sets, where 13 cards were used, it will be seen
that H.'s success is almost double the most probable number—21
instead of 11'5. From the beginning she, unlike me, was aware of a
definite impulse to stop ; her difficulty in deciding which card to select
came from an occasional uncertainty as to which of two cards was the
f card intended."
Some incidental observations may be interesting. On the 5th
evening of the second pack (diamonds), H. had stopped three times at
the 10, and I thought that she might be beginning to recognise the
cards by touch. She knew nothing of my experiments in that
direction. On the next evening, at the 2nd trial, she said : " I have
guessed what this is," meaning that she had a mental impression, and
pn stopping at a card, she added, before seeing it, " here it is, it is
SupernoTTTial Acquisition of Knowledge. 1*7
the 6," which was the right card. I note this as possibly explaining
the process that results in success, namely, telepathy, more readily
felt subconsciously than by the conscious mind, but on this occasion
reaching the consciousness as well as apparently enabling the percipient
to stop at the right card. I do not know, and H. was not able to
say, whether, when she said " I have guessed," she had already
touched the right card. Her impression was that she " saw "—she
is also a good visualiser—the card before she felt it, but in the
light of my own experiences in feeling cards, (see above, p. 176) I
Attach little value to this impression.
However, on this evening, when our sets were finished, we tried
some experiments to see whether H. could select a given card,
consciously or unconsciously. I shuffled the cards, and she tried to
£nd the required cards under the same conditions as above. The two
sets of trials were as follows :—
A.—I named a card and asked her to find it ; the cards named
were, 6, 7, 6 : the cards drawn were, respectively, 7, 6, 8.
B.—She thought of a card (unknown to me) and tried to find it.
The cards thought of were king, 2, queen ; the cards drawn were 6, 6,
king.
It will be seen that on no occasion did she succeed, when
deliberately trying to produce the required card ; the choice of one
card (the 6), three out of the six times, suggests that her fingers were
sensitive enough to find again a card once drawn.
But I have still to mention the most interesting of all the
observations that I have been able to record. On the 1st night of the
2nd set (diamonds), when H. was percipient, I was aware of an
impression beforehand that H. was going to guess correctly on the two
occasions when she did so. I therefore decided to record beforehand
any such impression that I might have. As soon as H. had drawn her
card, I was in the habit of recording my card, before she looked at
hers, and I now arranged to put a mark whenever I had the impression
that she was right. The result was as follows :—
Number of cards guessed correctly by EL, 9 ; of these all were
marked by me.
Number of guesses marked by me, 11. Of these 9, as above, were
right ; one was wrong (queen for king), the 11th was half right—i.e., I
felt sure that H. had guessed, made my mark, felt her stop at what I
was sure was the right card, and wondered why she did not speak.
Then she said : " Well, this one," and produced the 4. (My card was
the 3.) On my saying " No," she said : " Oh, then, it is the other, I
was not sure," and produced the preceding 3.
It is difficult for me to describe what is the nature of the impression
I receive, which leads me to believe that the percipient has been
188 Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
successful. All who have tried to convey an idea by thought-
transference must be familiar with the sensation that after a special
effort the thought has been actually projected into space, leaving one
fatigued and conscious of a loss. But in this case that I am trying
to describe, the effort made seems to meet with a response, the force
exerted, instead of departing, returns, and the momentary fatigue is
followed by so vivid an impression of recovery of power that it
amounts to a pleasurable physical sensation. Difficult as it is to
describe, the sensation is unmistakable, and—what is more important
—seems rarely to be misleading.
Since writing the above, I have received a report of the results of
some 200 guesses of cards done under somewhat similar circumstances
to those described under the head of D. The conditions were better,
inasmuch as the card was drawn by one person, who did not look at it,
and guessed by another. Not only is there, under these circumstances,
the guarantee against self-deception afforded by the presence of
another person, but the tendency to recognise a card by touch in
shuffling is overcome.
I quote from the account I have received :—
" Mrs. Y. sat at one end of an ordinary table, and Mr. Y. on the
opposite side. A screen was formed by a piece of newspaper fixed up
against a stand. Behind this Mrs. Y. drew a card from a pack and,
without looking at it, placed it face downwards on a book and passed
the card and book to Mr. Y. whose fingers never touched anything
but the back of the card sometimes. A shuffle of the pack followed
each guess. On two occasions third persons were present.1 Mr. Y.
sees or does not see an image on the back of the card. This is
sometimes so faint that nothing can be made of it ; sometimes it is
shifting and variable ; sometimes clear, with colour. Sometimes no
image is seen at all."
In all cases, even where no image was seen, a guess was made ; it
is probable that had all cases where no image appeared been rejected,
the number of successful guesses would have borne a higher ratio to
the most probable number than they do in the record as it stands.
But that the success is very striking, the figures (given at the end of
the Table, see p. 196) show.
Two guesses are excluded from the calculation because they were
alternative ; they were (a) 4 or 5 of hearts, the actual card being 5 of
hearts, (b) 2 or 3 of diamonds, the actual card being 2 of diamonds.
The following is a complete record of three more recent series of
experiments—carried out in the presence of other witnesses— in
1 The corroboration of these persons has been obtained.
Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge. 189
which Mr. Y. only made a guess in the cases where he saw a distinct
image. The mark x indicates that he had no impression.
March 21rf, 1895.
Card guessed,
x
x
King of Hearts
5 of Diamonds
x
X
5 of Hearts
X
5 of Diamonds
King of Clubs
Card drawn.
Not recorded
Not recorded
5 of Diamonds
5 of Diamonds
Not recorded
Not recorded
King of Clubs
Not recorded
7 of Clubs
King of Clubs
This list was recorded and witnessed by Miss A. E. Grignon, of
Essenden, Hatfield, Herts.
May 22nd, 1895.
Card guessed.
X
x
x
x
Knave of Hearts
X
X
X
7 or 9 of Spades
x
3 of Clubs
X
X
X
X
9 or 8 of Spades
x
4 of Hearts
x
x
X
2 or 3 of Hearts
6 of Hearts
King of Clubs
The above list is signed by Mr. F. W. H.
Card drawn.
Not looked at
3 of Hearts
4 of Hearts
2 of Hearts
Ace of Spades
8 of Spades
6 of Diamonds
4 of Hearts
9 of Spades
2 of Spades
3 of Clubs
5 of Diamonds
2 of Spades
7 of Clubs
2 of Diamonds
9 of Spades
4 of Spades
King of Clubs
3 of Hearts
Ace of Diamonds
Knave of Clubs
Ace of Clubs
6 of Hearts
Knave of Clubs
King of Clubs
Myers.
190 Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
May 2Qth, 1895.—These experiments were made in the presence of
Mr. Y.'s two brothers, one of whom shuffled and handed the cards to
him.
Card guessed. Card drawn.
x 8 of Hearts
2 of Hearts 2 of Hearts
x Knave of Clubs
3 of Clubs' , 3 of Clubs-
x 5 of Hearts
x 10 of Hearts
x 4 of Diamonds
2 of Hearts Knave of Hearts
x 5 of Spades
x 8 of Spades
4 or 5 of Clubs 5 of Clubs
Mr. Myers writes :—
May 30th, 1895.
"I know the reasons why Mr. and Mrs. Y. wish to remain anonymous,
and regard them as sufficient. Mrs. Y. was known to me for some years
before her marriage as a scrupulously careful informant. Mr. Y. is occupied
in studies which both demand and foster accuracy of mind. I have witnessed
other phenomena of interest in Mr. Y.'s presence, besides the card-experi
ments here cited. In the series signed by me, I gave Mr. Y. the cards
myself, shuffling the full pack between each experiment, and sliding off the
top card under my hand, face downwards, on to a piece of cardboard, in
such a manner that neither he, nor I, nor Mrs. Y., could obtain the slightest
glimpse of its face. The cards were thick, with a pattern on the back, and
were guessed as they lay face downward on the cardboard, upon a small
table between Mr. Y. and myself, being in my sight all the time. The
perception seemed to come gradually, the suit being generally guessed in a
few seconds, if at all, and the number of pips in a few seconds to half a
minute longer."
I should be very glad to receive accounts of similar experiments
from any other informants who may be inclined to try them. Reports
to be addressed to me at 5, Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
APPENDIX A.
Illustrating Misinterpretation of Means by which Information
is Conveyed to the Mind.
The observations now to be mentioned seem to me in some -ways
analogous to the imaginary transference of the source of information
from one sense to another, mentioned on p. 176, inasmuch as in each
case there is a sensation erroneously interpreted. But instead of a
Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge. 191
perception actually derived from one sense appearing to be derived
from another, as with the cards, in these cases a piece of information
not consciously possessed at the moment is conveyed to the conscious
intelligence by means of an apparent mechanical difficulty, which on
examination turns out not to exist. The information thus obtained is
usually negative ; that is, this apparent mechanical difficulty prevents
my doing something unnecessary or undesirable^which I should know to
be such if I thought about it, but which from thoughtlessness I am on
the point of domg. An illustration will make my meaning clearer.
Constantly, when using my typewriter, it has happened to me to
find a difficulty in pressing a key, so great a difficulty as to oblige me
to look to see what is wrong. I then see that what is wrong is that
my finger was on the wrong key, but there is, in fact, no difficulty
whatever in depressing the key if I determine to do so. The effect of
this apparent mechanical difficulty is to draw my attention in time to
the mistake I am on the point of making.
I have notes of two similar occurrences, both extremely trivial, but
illustrating the above point. One day last September I was putting
on my bonnet, and had taken the pin, which goes through the back, to
secure it. The pin entirely refused to pass through my hair, and after
some inefficient thrusts, I took it out to look at the point to see what
was wrong. I then saw that I had not taken the usual pin ; with
this particular bonnet I had been in the habit of wearing a large-
headed ornamental pin, whereas the pin I now held had a small glass
head, and was one I usually wore with a hat. Tliere was nothing
wrong with the point, and now that I knew what I was doing I had no
sort of difficulty in pushing it through my liair. The two pins are
quite unlike in shape and weight ; what probably happened was that
my hand felt something unusual in the head of the pin, but instead of
toy becoming conscious of the difference in sensation of the head, my
attention was attracted by the apparent bluntness at the point.
The second experience occurred a few days later. I wrote, in the
afternoon, five letters, and then stretched out my left hand to the
stationery case to take the necessary envelopes. I wanted five, and as
I can usually take a small number without error expected to take five.
But I did not get enough ; I found that I only had three, and tried to
take a couple more. But one of these two slipped through my fingers
and I only held one. I was quite vexed at my maladroitness, gave up
a further attempt for the present and proceeded to fold my letters,
put them into envelopes, and address them. When I came to the 5th
letter, I remembered that I had an envelope ready addressed for this
letter, as I had written the night before, but torn up the letter after
receiving a letter by the late post, which decided me to wait for fuller
information. I had kept the envelope, and it was actually lying on my
r 2
192 Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
table while I was trying to take the five envelopes. I may have seen it,
but if I did, it was unconsciously ; it was only when I found that I
could not get five envelopes that I discovered that I did not require
more than four.
. APPENDIX B.
Recognition of Objects by Telepathy ok Hyperesthesia.
Percipient, Aged 7£ Years.
H.
In November, 1890, I tried the following experiment with H. I
drew a diagram, which I placed on H.'s forehead, while her eyes were
shut, and asked her to describe it. To make the performance more
like a game, I went on to ask what colour it was, and what she could
see through it. We tried four experiments, three on the afternoon
of November 16th, and one at 6.15 on November 30th, with the
following results :—
Object drawn.
H. drew a triangle with her finger in the
air. Bight.
-A
H. described and drew an irregular figure,
which did not seem to satisfy her, then said it
A triangle with apex was like an oval dish <*""*> . Wrong.
c.
cut off.
Square.
JT
H. said : " It's like a window with no
cross bars," and drew a four-sided rectangular
figure in the air. Bight.
H. said : " It's a diamond." "What else 1 "
said I, meaning what colour, &c. " It's got a
line across it, and another across that. The
colour is pale blue." Bight.
Square divided into 4
squares by a vertical
and a horizontal line.
When I gave her the diagram, she turned it anglewise and said,
" Oh yes, that's right, and the colour was not far wrong." As the
diagram was drawn in ink on white paper, I did not understand, and
asked what she meant. She said, " Why it's all blue, bluish white
inside, and even the ink is blue." The diagram had been dried with
blotting paper and was not a very deep black, but I could see nothing
blue. Ten minutes afterwards she picked up the paper again and
Analysis of Mrs. Verrall's Card Experiments. 193
commented on the fact that it was blue, the lines dark bright blue,
and the inside pale blue. I burnt the diagram and discontinued the
game after observing this persistence of a self-suggested hallucination.
We had previously tried experiments which seemed to show that
the child could feel the diagram. She could almost always tell whether
the right or wrong side of a playing card were placed on her fore
head. I was quite unable to distinguish the two sides. I am more
inclined to attribute her successes (3 out of 4) to hyperesthesia than
to telepathy.
ANALYSIS OF MRS. VERRALL'S CARD EXPERIMENTS.
By C. P. Sanger, F.S.S.
If we make m guesses, and the probability 1 of each individual guess
being right is p, it is clear that the most probable number of successes
is mp ; but the probability of being successful exactly mp times is less
than J. Suppose that pr is the probability2 that the number of
successful guesses lies between mp-r and mp + r, then the "probable
error" may be defined as that value of l' which makes pr = \. This
value of r is approximately I ,J2irmp (1- p) when m is large. In the
Tables given below, I have calculated the " probable error " from this
formula. It is also found that pT will differ from 1 by a very small
quantity if we take r to equal 3 >J2(1 - p)mp, so that any number of
successes greater than tnp+3^/2 (X — p)mp would indicate that the
successes had not all been obtained by mere chance. In the Tables
below I have calculated the " number of successes required to prove
skill " from this formula.
As these formule are obtained by assuming that m is large and that
mp and m (1 - p) are not small, it is probable that they would not give
trustworthy results if applied to the case of " whole cards." I have
therefore omitted to give any calculations or inferences based on them.
The figures given for "number of pips" are probably not very
trustworthy when the number of trials is less than 200. The number
of trials is certainly insufficient to base any very definite conclusions
1 For a complete discussion of the problem involved, see Professor Edgeworth's
papers on "The Calculus of Probabilities applied to Psychical Research" in the
Proeadings S.P.R., VoL III., p. 190, and Vol. IV., p. 189.
1 The general value of pr is given by
Pr = 7=1 P dx + . p ™
V ttJ o V27rp(l-p)m
where —- - 2p(l—p)m.
194 G. P. Sanger, F.S.S.
upon whenever the " number of successes required to prove skill " is
greater than twice the " most probable number of successes." I have
added the inferences that I think may fairly be drawn from Mrs.
Verrall's results, using the terms " skill,"1 "probably skill," " possibly
skill " and " chance " ; in doing so it is possible that I err in favour
of inferring probable or possible skill too readily.
[Note.—In the following Tables, the capital letters prefixed to the series
refer to the classification adopted on p. 175.
The numbers of successes in " suits " and " number of pips " include the
successes in " whole cards," as well as those in " suits "or "number of pips "
respectively.
A complete pack was used in all the experiments except those of Section E,
and one guess only was made in each trial.]
A I. Mrs. V. feelingfaces of Cards.
400 Trials. Jan. lSlh—Feb. 10th, 1890
Most probable number of successes ...
SUItS. SO. OF PIPS. WHOLE CardS.
Probable error
100
6
31
4
8
Number of successes required to prove
skill 137
121
53
83
skill
Actual number of successes 34
Inference probably skill
B II. Mrs. V. touching backs ofcards.
350 Trials. Jan. 18th—Feb. 11th, 1890
Most probable number of successes .. . 87
6
27
4
1*1
1-4
Probable error
Number of successes required to prove
skill 122
82
chance
48
25
chance
Actual number of successes
Inference
C III. Mrs. V. percipient ; H. agent.
185 Trials. Oct. 18th, 1890-^6. 3rd, 1891.
Most probable number of successes ... 46
4
14 4
Probable error 3
Number of successes required to prove
skill 71
46
chance
29?
14
chance
Actual number of successes 3
Inference
C Ilia. H. percipient ; Mrs. V. agent.
240 Trials. Oct. 18th, 18*M-Feb.l6th, 1892.
Most probable number of successes ... 60
4
18
3
5
Probable error
Number of successes required to prove
skill 89
68
36
24
Actual number of successes
Inference possibly skill possibly skiU
1 The word " skill " is used to mean that the results are due to some cause other
than chance.
Analysis of Mrs. VerraWs Card Experiments. 195
CIV., DV.andD Va. 590 Trials.
Feb. Hth, 1890 tunc 16th, 1892.
suns. HO. OF PIPS. WUOLX CaftM.
Most probable number of successes
Probable error 148 45
4
11
Number of successes required toprove
skill
7
CIV. Mrs. V. and H. both guesting
same card; coincidence of guess
counted as a success.
192 72
Actual number of successes 155 - 56
probably skill
Inference ... possibly skill
1
D V. and D Va. Mrs. V. and H. both
guessing same card ; correctness of
guess counted as a success.
D V. Mrs. V. percipient ; 590 Trials.
in 250 trials, Feb., 1890 , 62
55
12
18
41 10
9
0
4
in 250 trials. Oct., 1890 ... 22
6
9
m 40 trials. Jan. 1891
in 50 trials. May, 1892
Total actual number of successes
Inference '' 147
chance
78
skill
23
D Va. H. percipient : 590 Trials,
in 250 trials. Feb., 1890
in 250 trials. Oct., 1890 71
51
6
17
26
22
2
2
14
9
1
1
m 40 trials. Jan„ 1891
in 50 trials. May, 1892
Total actual number of successes
Inference 145
chance
52 25
D VI. Mrs. V. looking at backs of cards.
280 Trials.
July 23rd, 1892—Feb. 25th, 1894.
Most probable number of successes ...
probably skill
Probable error 70
4
22
3
Number of successes required to prove
skill ... 101 40
in 100 trials 35
28
12
8
5
26
14
1
3
1
13
4
1
1
in 100 trials
in 30 trials "]
in 30 triala
in 20 trials 0
Total actual number of successes
Inference 88 45
skill
19
D VII. Mrs. V. touching backs of cards.
100 Trials.
aug. Ut, 1892—Feb. Vlth, 1893.
Most probable number of successes ..
probably skill
Probable error 25
3
8
2
a
Number of successes required toprove
skill ... ... ... 43
28
19?
9
Actual number of successes 2
Inference ... possibly skill chance
Of these 14, 6 were correct as to suit only ; the other 8 were entirely incorreot.
196 C. P. Sanger, F.S.S.
E VTII. Mrs. V. percipient ; H. agent ; 144 Trials.
E Villa. H. percipient ; Mrs. V. agent ; 150 Trials.
[In these, only one suit was used at a time, instead of a whole pack,
number of pips was guessed.]
and the
E vIII. E villa
Oct 13th—Nov. 26th, 1893.
1M trIaLS. ISO trIalS.
Most probable number of successes 11 12
Probable error ... 2 2
Number of successes required to prove skill ... 24? 25?
r in 69 trials ... 2 in 75 trials ... 9
Actual number of successes i in 75 8 in 75 „ ... 12
I Total ... 10 Total ... 21
Inference chance probably skill
Mr. Y.'s Experiments.
197 trials. Jan. 26th—Mar. Ilia, 1895.
SUItS. nO. OF PIPS. WHOLe CARdS.
Most probable number of successes ... 49 15 4
Probable error 4 3 —
Number of successes required to
prove skill 75 31 —
Actual number of successes 102 43 34
Inference skill skill
[From Mr. Sanger's calculations of Mrs. Verrall's experiments,
some other cause than chance is shown to have heen operative in the
following series of experiments :—
A I, where Mrs. Verrall was feeling the faces of the cards ;
D V, when she was looking at the backs of the cards, H. looking
at them and guessing at the same time ;
and D VI, when she was looking at the backs of the cards alone ;
and possibly also in C IV, the series of experiments in "indirect
telepathy."
H. was less successful than Mrs. Verrall, there being no series in
which " skill " was conclusively proved in her case. The best were :—
C IV, the experiments in "indirect telepathy " ;
D Va, in which she was looking at the backs of the cards, Mrs.
Verrall looking at the same time ;
and E Villa, the experiments in " telesthesia."
It is noteworthy that Mrs. Verrall was decidedly more successful
in guessing the number of pips than in guessing suits, as shown in
Analysis of Mrs. VerraU's Card Experimente. 197
Series A I, C IV, D V, and D VI,—that is, in all her successful
series. The same tendency is shown in H.'s guesses, see Series C IV,
and D Va.
The series of experiments in which Mrs. Verrall failed altogether
were those in "direct telepathy" (C III) ; those in " tehesthesia "
(E VIII) ; and those in which she merely touched the back of the
card, generally with one finger only, and waited for no impression,
but guessed as quickly as she could get her mind to form a choice
(B II and D VII). These two last series should hardly be counted as
" experiments on the supernormal acquisition of knowledge " at all, as
they were intended merely to show the results obtained by "pure
guesswork."—Ed.]
198 Andrew I.ang.
IT.
THE VOICES OF JEANNE D'ARC.
By Andrew Lang.
In spite of the minute French research into the history of Jeanne
d'Arc, and the active French pursuit of studies in esoteric psychology,
no expert seems to have applied the new psychological methods to the
old problem of the Maid. The remarks of Mr. Myers, in his essay on
" The Demon of Socrates" (Proceedings, Vol. V., Part XIV., pp. 522—
549) contain almost all which I have met with on this curious topic,
from the pen of the modern psychologist. Perhaps one may be per
mitted a few comments on these notes of Mr. Myers. He would not
lay stress on his obiter dictum that the Venerable Jeanne had " no con
spicuous strength of intellect." Simplicity, as all witnesses declared—
with " feminine subtlety," according to Beaupere, one of her judges—
was the mark of the Maid. She was uninstructed. She could not
read. But her native intellectual strength is attested by the lucidity
of her political ideas. She went straight to the point : the necessity
of recovering France, of expelling the English, of securing French
loyalty by crowning the Dauphin. Like Bedford, she saw that, after
the Coronation at Rheims, Paris must " fall at one stroke," (I quote
Bedford) if the stroke were swiftly dealt. Paris did not fall, because
Jeanne's counsel was neglected, and during the derisory negotiations
with Burgundy, which she denounced, Paris was garrisoned by fresh
English troops.
In the same way, Jeanne's replies to the most subtle and en
snaring theological questions (replies recorded by her hostile judges),
are worthy of her Master, our Lord, and are irrefutable proof of
" conspicuous strength of intellect." Her improvised skill, not only
in tactics and strategics, but in the practical art of the artillerist, is
attested by d'Alencpn, and is apparent to any intelligent reader of
the story of her campaigns.1 She not only struck sudden and
severe blows, not only organised surprises, but (as Captain Marin
proves at length) understood the game of war on the great scale.
Meanwhile, the manners of this peasant girl were the manners of a
grande dame. In brief, she had this quality of genius, that no situa
tion, however novel and strange, found her unready or incompetent.
1 Captain Marin's Jeanne d'Arc, Stratigitte et Tacticienne, may be consulted.
The Voices of Jeanne d'Arc. 199
To me it seems that Shakspeare himself gives less extraordinary
proof of " conspicuous strength of intellect," for we never see Shaks
peare put to trial in great practical affairs. On the bodily vigour of
the Maid, it is needless to dilate. Severe wounds did not incapacitate
her from instant action ; she wore arms for six days without intermis
sion1 ; all her comrades testified to her extraordinary endurance, and
without such endurance, her week of victory, crowned by the battle of
Patay, would have been impossible.
One point may be left to physiologists and physicians.
Twenty-five years after her death, her Maitre d' Hotel, d'Aulon,
declared that women who knew her well had averred that she was
free from the infirmities of her sex. Nothing to this effect was stated
by ladies in whose houses she had lodged, who had the most intimate
acquaintance with her, who had bathed with her, and shared her
coach. Her unusual, if not unprecedented, personal modesty is described
by her comrades in arms, and may explain the origin of the rumour.
Intellectually and physically, then, the Maid, like Socrates, was un
deniably robust and vigorous. Except under stress of fasting, chains,
and the torture of a prolonged trial, or after her leap from the top of
the donjon of Beaurevoir, we never hear of ill-health in Jeanne d'Arc.
All this differentiates her from the neuralgic, neurotic, or epileptic
patients of the Salpetriere, and from mystics like the contemporary
St. Colette. The vague and question-begging term " hysterical " can
only be applied to Jeanne if we argue, " All visionaries are hysterical.
Jeanne was a visionary. Therefore, Jeanne was hysterical."
In her private character, we learn from every side that she was
naturally gay and humorous. Some of her answers to her judges show
this : the most touching proof of all is that when one of the notaries
at her trial made a mistake in a date, she corrected him, laughed when
her accuracy was demonstrated, and playfully threatened " to pull his
ears if he made another blunder." Such were the natural gaiety and
high spirits of a captive who, in chains and fasting, was being tried
for her life. On the other hand, the Maid, while the best and most
industrious girl of her village, had early attracted the ridicule of other
children by her extreme devotion. She kept fast-days strictly, she
was much in prayer, from her infancy upwards. To prove that such
practices may beget hallucinations, we have (among many other cases)
the example of the American Puritan scholar, Cotton Mather. Having
noticed that, after prayer and fasting, Cotton Mather saw an angel,
who entertained him with literary conversation, I called to this fact
the attention of Pere Ayroles, S.J., an historian of the Maid. The
learned father asked me if Mather's prophecies were fulfilled, as a rule.
1 Contemporary Letter of Boulainvilliers.
200 Andrew I.ang.
I had to answer " No," whereon Pere Ayroles drew a not unnatural
distinction, unfavourable to the New England mystic.
The period when Jeanne supposed herself to see her first visions
was physiologically critical. She was either between thirteen and
fourteen, or between twelve and thirteen. M. Siméon Luce, in his
Jeanne D'Arc a Domremy, held that she was of the more advanced
age, and his date (1425) fitted in with some public events, which,
in his opinion, were probably the occasions of the experiences.
Pere Ayroles prefers the earlier period (1424) when the aforesaid
public events had not yet occurred. After examining the evidence on
both sides, I am disposed to think, or rather I am certain, that Pere
Ayroles is in the right. In either case Jeanne was at a critical age,
when, as I understand, female children are occasionally subject to
illusions. Speaking then as a non-scientific student, a mere literary
man, I submit that on the side of ordinary causes for the visions and
voices, we have :—
1. The period in Jeanne's life when they began.
2. Her habits of fasting and prayer.
3. A rumour of her abnormal physiological condition.
4. Her intense patriotic enthusiasm, which may, for all that we
know, have been her mood before St. Michael announced to her the
mission.
On the other side, as facts more or less inconsistent with hysteria
and hysterical illusions, we must reckon her unprecedented vigour of
mind and body, her humour, her lack of the customary superstitions
(such as belief in fairies), her unswerving belief in the objectivity of
what she saw and heard and the contents of the messages which she
believed herself to have received. The point which I have italicised
has been a subject of dispute. It is enough to say that Jeanne's
recantation, made in sight of the stake, is notoriously a very dubious
document, and that she most undeniably withdrew it, preferring death
and obedience to her voices to such a life as the English were leading
her. There is another informal document (written a week after her
death) concerning an examination held on the day of her martyrdom, a
document which the greffiers refused to sign and which is unsigned
(Proces I. p. 477). The testimony of this paper, such as it is, assures
us that Jeanne ceased to believe that her voices came from saints and
angels. They had promised "release with great victory;" she was being
led to the stake, therefore she had been deceived. But even now she
maintained that the voices and visions, whencesoever they came, were
objective. " Realiter habuit revelationes et apparitiones spirituum." In
the letter of Henry VI. to the nobles, prelates, and towns of France,
he (or rather Bedford) adopts this dubious confession. " Seeing her end
approach, she plainly knew and confessed that the spirits which often
The Voices of Jeanne d'Arc. 201
appeared to her were evil and lying spirits, that their promise to
deliver her was false, and so she bore witness that by these spirits she
had been mocked and deceived." (Proces I., 493. Rouen, June 28th.)
On the scaffold, at last, she understood the nature of her victory and
called upon her familiar saints. Thus Jeanne, on the most dubious
and most unfriendly evidence, never conceived that her " voices " were
merely subjective and hallucinatory. Bad spirits or good, they were
spirits ! Taking it for what it is worth (and, though it is informal,
M. Quicherat does not think that it is forged), this posthumous
testimony adds another important fact to our knowledge.
Only when within an hour of the inevitable fire, did Jeanne
dream that her voices had deceived her. Therefore, previously, they
had not deceived her, or not essentially. The intimations thus
obtained had been correct. If any external evidence for this can be
adduced, the visions of Jeanne will certainly be differentiated from
those of Cotton Mather, for example.
I.et us then, examine the evidence as to the origin and nature of
the alleged phenomena. Mr. Myers regards Jeanne's replies to her
accusers, in 1431, as " the only trustworthy source." Certainly, if
the Proces has been garbled, (as is probably the case, for in a brief
official recapitulation facts are stated which are not in the full
Report), it was not garbled in a sense favourable to the accused. But
I conceive that letters and other evidence, written in 1429, are not to
be neglected, while criticism may discern much valuable or significant
matter even in the Procss of 1452-56.
I shall begin with the letter of the Sénechal de Berry, Perceval
de Boulainvilliers, to the Duke of Milan, (Proces V., p. 115.) The
date is June 21st, 1429, six weeks after the relief of Orleans. After
a few such tales as that the cocks crowed when Jeanne was born, and
that her flock was lucky, he dates her first vision peractis aetatis suae
duodecim annis, " after she was twelve." Briefly, the tale is that, in
a rustic race for flowers, one of the other children cried, "Joanna,
video te volantem juxta terram," "Joan, I see you flying near the
ground." This is the one solitary hint of " levitation " (so common in
hagiology and witchcraft) which occurs in the career of the Maid.
This kind of story is so persistent that I knew it must have been
told in connection with the Irvingite movement in Scotland. And it
was ' There is, perhaps, just one trace that flying was believed to be an
accomplishment of Jeanne's. When Frere Richard came to her at
Troyes, he made, she says, the sign of the Cross.l She answered,
" Approchez hardiment, je ne m'envouleray pas." Now the con
temporary St. Colette was not infrequently " levitated ! "
1 Procit I., 100.
202 Andrew I.ang.
To return to the voices. After her race, Jeanne was quasi rapla
et a serisibus alienala, then juxla earn affuit juvenis quidam, who bade
her " go home, for her mother needed her."
"Thinking that it was her brother or a neighbour " (apparently she
only heard the voice, and did not see the speaker), she hurried home,
and found that she had not been sent for. Next, as she was on the
point of returning to her friends, " a very bright cloud appeared to her,
and out of the cloud came a voice," bidding her take up her mission.
She was merely puzzled, but the experiences were often renewed. This
letter, being contemporary, represents current belief, based either on
Jeanne's own statements before the clergy at Poictiers (April, 1429),
or on the gossip of Domremy. It should be observed that till Jeanne
told her own tale at Rouen (1431) we have not one word about Saints
or Angels. She merely spoke of "my voices," " my counsel," "my
Master." If she was more explicit at Poictiers, her confessions did
not find their way into surviving letters and journals, not even into
the journal of the hostile Bourgeois de Paris. We may glance at
examples.
The Journal du Siege dOrleans is in parts a late document, in
parts "evidently copied from a journal kept in presence of the actual
events." (Quicherat. In Procis IV., 95.) The Journal, in February,
1429, vaguely says that " about this time " our Lord used to appear to
a maid, as she was guarding her flock, or "cousant et filant." A St.
Victor M.S. has couranl et saillant, which curiously agrees with Bou-
lainvilliers. The Journal, after telling of the Battle of the Herrings
(February 12th, 1429), declares that Jeanne " knew of it by Grace
Divine," and that her vue a distance induced Baudricourt to send her
to the Dauphin. (Proees IV., 125.) This was attested by Baudricourt's
letters (IV., 125). All this may have been written as late as 1468,
but a vague reference to an apparition of our Lord rather suggests
contemporary hearsay, before Jeanne came to Orleans. Jeanne never
claimed any such visions of our Lord. The story of the clairvoyance as
to the Battle of the Herrings is also given in the Chronique de la Pucelle.
(Proces IV., 206.) M. Quicherat thinks that the passage is amplified
from the Journal du Siege. On the other hand, M. Vallet de Viriville
attributes with assurance the Chronique de la Pucelle to Cousinot de
Montreuil, who was the Dauphin's secretary at Poictiers, when the Maid
was examined there in April, 1429.1 If Cousinot was the author, he
certainly did not write his chronicle till long after date. However, he
avers that the story of clairvoyance was current in the spring of 1429.
The dates exactly harmonise; that is to say, between the day of the battle,
February 12th, and the setting forth of the Maid from Vaucouleurs,
1 HUtoire de Charltt VII., II., 62.
The Voices of Jeanne (CArc. 203
there is just time for the bad news from Rouvray to arrive, confirming
her statement, and for a day or two of preparation.
These and other documents, whether contemporary or written
later by contemporaries, contain none of the references to visions
of St. Margaret, St. Catherine, and St. Michael, which we find
in Jeanne's own replies at Rouen. For this omission it is not
easy to account, even if we suppose that, except when giving evidence
on oath, the Maid was extremely reticent. That she was reticent, we
shall prove from evidence of d'Aulon and Dunois. Turning to
the Maid's own evidence in court, we must remember that she was most
averse to speaking at all, that she often asked leave to wait for advice
and permission from her voices before replying, that on one point she
constantly declared that, if compelled to speak, she would not speak
the truth. This point was the King's secret. There is absolutely con
temporary evidence, from Alain Chartier, that, before she was accepted,
she told Charles something which filled him with surprise, joy, and
belief. (Proces V., 131. Letter of July, 1429.) The secret was con
nected with Charles's doubts of his own legitimacy, and Jeanne at her
trial was driven to obscure the truth in a mist of allegory, as, indeed, she
confessed. Mr. Myers does not seem to have understood this point.
All that tale of an angel and a crown was mere allegory. Jeanne's
extreme reluctance to adopt even this loyal and laudable evasion is the
measure of her truthfulness in general. Still, she did say some words
which, as they stand, it is difficult to believe, to explain, or to account for.
From any other prisoner, so unjustly menaced with a doom so dreadful,
from Mary Stuart, for example, at Fotheringay, we do not expect the
whole truth and nothing but the truth. The Maid is a witness of
another kind, and where we cannot understand her, we must say, like
herself, passez outre I
When she was " about thirteen," she had a voice from God, to aid
her in governing herself. " And the first time she was in great fear.
And it came, that voice, about noon-day, in summer, in her father's
garden " (where other girls df old France hear the birds sing, " Marry,
maidens, marry ! ") "and Jeanne had not fasted on the day before.1
She heard the voice from the right side, towards the church, and
seldom heard it without seeing a bright light. The light was not
in front, but at the side whence the voice came. If she were
in a wood " (as distinguished from the noise of the crowded and
tumultuous court) "she could well hear the voices coming to her."
Asked what sign for her soul's health the voice gave, she said it bade
her behave well, and go to church, and used to tell her to go into
France on her mission. (I do not know why the advice about going to
1 The reading is nec not et, as in Quicherai Prodi I. 52, compare. L 216.
204 Andrew I.ang.
church is generally said to have been givenfirst.) Jeanne kept object
ing that she was a poor girl who could not ride, or lead in war.
She resisted the voice with all her energy. As to her male dress,
she " varied." Obviously she was anxious not to involve her first
warrior friend, Jean de Nouvellompont, as having made the suggestion
that she should dress as a man. Her loyalty to all of her party perhaps
made her hint that her voices were her advisers ; this is obscure. She
asserted that she knew the Dauphin, on their first meeting, by aid of
her voices. (I. 56.) She declared that the Dauphin himself " multas
habuit revelationes et apparitiones pulchras." In its literal sense,
there is no evidence for this, but rather the reverse. She may mean,
" revelations " through herself, or may refer to some circumstance
unknown. " Those of my party saw and knew that voice," she said,
but later would only accept them as witnesses if they were allowed
to come and see her. (I. 57.)
This is the most puzzling point in Jeanne's confession. She had
no motive for telling an untruth, unless she hoped that these remarks
would establish the objectivity of her visions. Of course, one of her
strange experiences may have occurred in the presence of Charles and
his court, and she may have believed that they shared in it. The
point is one which French writers appear to avoid, as a rule.
She said that she heard the voice daily in prison, " and stood in sore
need of it." The voice bade her remain at St. Denis (after the repulse
from Paris, in September, 1429), but she was not allowed to remain'.
On the next day (the third of the trial) she told Beaupere that she
was fasting since yesterday afternoon. Beaupere conceived that her
experiences were mere subjective hallucinations, caused by fasting, by
the sound of church-bells, and so on. As to the noise of bells,
Coleridge writes that their music fell on his ears, "Most like articulate
sounds of things to come." Beaupere's sober common sense did not
avail to help the Maid, but at the Rehabilitation (1456) he still main
tained his old opinion. " Yesterday she had heard the voices in the
morning, at vespers, and at the late ringing for Ave Maria, and she
heard them much more frequently than she mentioned." " Yesterday
she had been asleep when the voice aroused her. She sat up and clasped
her hands, and the voice bade her answer boldly. Other words she half
heard before she was quite awake, but failed to understand." (I. 62.)
Mr. Myers says that this rousing from sleep by such a voice is "»
phenomenon often observed in our cases of veridical hallucination."
But, in the spirit of Beaupere, I may ask if the phenomenon is
unfamiliar to the insane, who are often haunted by airy voices 1
She denied that the voices ever contradicted themselves. On this
occasion, as not having received leave from her voices, she refused to
say anything as to her visions.
The Voices of Jeanne d'Arc.
At the next meeting she admitted having heard the voices in court,
bat in court she could not distinguish the words, owing to the
tumult She had now, however, leave to speak more fully. The voices
were those of St. Catherine and St. Margaret. Later she was
asked if St. Margaret " spoke English." Apparently the querist
thought that the English Margaret, wife of Malcolm of Scotland, was
intended. They were crowned with fair crowns, as she had said at
Poictiers two years before. She now appealed to the record of her
examination there, but it was not in court, nor was it used in the trial
of Rehabilitation. It has never been recovered. A witness who had
examined her at Poictiers threw no light (twenty years later) on the
saints and voices. Seven years ago (that is, when she was twelve) she
first saw the saints. On the attire of the saints she had not leave
to speak. They were preceded by St. Michael " with the angels of
Heaven." " I saw them as clearly as I see you, and I used to weep when
they departed, and would fain that they should have taken me with
them." *
As to the famous sword at Fierbois, she averred that she had been
in the church there, on her way to Chinon, that the voices later bade
her use a sword which was hidden under earth,—she thinks behind, but
possibly in front of the altar,—at Fierbois. A man unknown to her
was sent from Tours to fetch the sword, which after search was found,
and she wore it.
Asked whether she had prophesied her wound by an arrow at
Orleans, and her recovery, she said " yes."
This prediction, omitted, as to its exact details, by Mr. Myers, is
singular in that it was recorded before the event. The record was
copied into the registre of Brabant, from a letter written on April 22nd,
1429, by a Flemish diplomatist, De Rotselaer, then at Lyons.1 De
Rotselaer had the prophecy from an officer of the court of the Dauphin.
The prediction was thus noted on April 22nd, the event occurred on
May 7th. On the fifth day of the trial Jeanne announced that, before
seven years were gone, the English would lose a dearer gage than
Orleans ; " this I know by revelation, and am wroth that it is to be so
long deferred." Mr. Myers observes that " the prediction of a great
victory over the English within seven years was not fulfilled in any
exact way." The words of the Maid are " Angli demittent majus vadium
quam fecerunt coram Aurelianis," and, as prophecies go, their loss of
Paris (1436) corresponds very well to the Maid's announcement. She
went on, indeed, to say that the English " will have greater loss than ever
they had, through a great French victory," but this reads like a gloss
on her original prediction. " She knew it as well as that we were
1 Prodi, IV., 425.
s
206 Andrew I.ang.
there." (Proces I., 84). " You shall not have the exact year, but well
I wish it might be before the St. John ; " however, she had already
expressed her sorrow that this was not to be. " Perhaps some English
will fall before Martinmas," a vague and not unsafe, but rather annoy
ing remark ! Asked, on March 1st, whether her liberation was
promised, she said, "Ask me in three months, and I will tell you." In
three months exactly, her stainless soul was free.
On the appearance, garb, and so on of her saints, she declined to
answer questions.
She had once disobeyed her voices, when they forbade her to leap
from the tower of Beaurevoir. She leaped, but they forgave her, and
told her that Compi&gne (where she was captured on May 23rd, 1430)
would be relieved " before Martinmas." It was relieved on October
26th, after a siege of five months. On March 10th an effort was made to
prove that her voices had lied to her, and that she had lied about her
voices. The enemy maintained that on May 23rd, 1430, she announced
a promised victory to the people of Compiegne, vowing that St. Mar
garet and St. Catherine had revealed it to her. Two hostile priests of
Compiegne were at Rouen, and may have carried this tale, which is re
ported by two Burgundian chroniclers, but not by Monstrelet, who was
with the besieging army. I have examined the evidence in Macmillan's
Magazine for May, 1894, and, to myself, it seems inadequate. In court
she said n'exist autre commandement de yssir. She was not asked
whether she had pretended to have received such an order. She told
the touching story of how, at Melun, on April, 1430, the voices had
warned her that she would be taken prisoner before midsummer ; how
she had prayed for death, or for tidings as to the day and hour. But
no tidings were given to her, and her old belief, often expressed, that
she " should last but one year or little more " was confirmed. The Due
dAlencon had heard her say this several times ; for the prophecy at
Melun we have only her own word.
She was now led into the allegory about the Angel (herself) and the
Crown (the coronation at Rheims). This allegory was fatal, but does
not bear on her real belief about her experiences. She averred, return
ing to genuine confessions, that her voices often came spontaneously ;
if they did not, she summoned them by a simple prayer to God. She
had seen the angelic figures moving, invisible save to her, among men.
The voices had promised her the release of Charles d'Orleans, but time
had failed her. This was as near a confession of failure as she ever
made, till the day of her burning ; if she really made one then. But here,
as always, she had predicted that she would do this or that if she were
sans empeschement. She had no revelation bidding her attack Paris
when she did, and after the day at Melun, she submitted to the advice
of the other captains. By the way, if this be so, not she, but the
The Voices of Jeanne d' Arc. 207
captains, displayed the strategy admired by Captain Marin in the
Oise campaign of 1430. As to her release, she was only bidden "to
bear all cheerfully ; he not vexed with thy martyrdom, thence shalt
thou come at last into the kingdom of Paradise."
To us, this is explicit enough, but the poor child explained to her
murderers that by martire she understood the pains of prison and she
referred it to her Lord, whether there were more to bear. In this
passage the original French exists, as well as the Latin translation.
The French is better.
"Ne te chaille de ton martire, tu t'en vendras enfin en royaulme
de Paradis."
"Non cures de martyrio tuo : tu venies finaliter in regnum para-
qbL"
The word hinc is omitted in the bad Latin. Unluckily we have
only a fragment of the original French, as taken down in court.
This passage, with some others, may perhaps be taken as indicating
that the contents of the communications received by Jeanne were not
always intelligible to her. Those who believe in a kind of plurality of
personalities may put their own interpretation on this fact. Hut as
far as I have read, people who, like " Leonie," have several selves are
people in all ways very unlike Jeanne d'Arc.
That her saints could be, and were, touched physically by her, she
admitted. (I. 185.) Here I am inclined to think that she had
touched with her ring, (as the custom was), a relic of St. Catherine,
at Fierbois. Such relics, brought from the desert of Sinai, lay at
Kerbois, and we know that women loved to rub their rings on the
ring of Jeanne, in spite of her laughing remonstrances. But apart
from this conjecture, she regarded her saints as tangible by her. She
had embraced both St. Margaret and St. Catherine. (I. 186.)
For the rest, Jeanne recanted her so-called recantation, averring
that she was unaware of the contents, or full significance of the
document. Her voices recalled her to her duty, for them she went to
the stake, and, as I have shewn, if there was a moment of wavering
on the day of her doom, her belief in the objective reality of the
phenomena remained firm, and she recovered her faith in the agony
of her death.
Of external evidence as to these experiences, the best is probably
that of d'Aulon, the Maitre d'Hotel of the Maid, and hor companion
through her whole career. He and she were reposing in the same
room at Orleans, her hostess being in the chamber (May, 1429),
and dAnion had just fallen asleep, when the Maid awoke him with a
sry. Her voices bade her go against the English, but in what
direction she knew not. In fact, the French leaders had begun,
without her knowledge, an attack on St. Loup, whither she galloped
8 2
208 Andrew I.ang.
and took the fort. (III. 212.) It is, of course, very possible that
the din of onset, which presently became audible, had vaguely
reached the senses of the Maid. Her page confirms d'Aulon's
testimony.
D'Aulon states that when the Maid had any martial adventure in
prospect, she told him that her " counsel " had given her this or that
advice. He questioned her as to the nature of this " counsel." She
said "she had three councillors, of whom one was always with her, a
second went and came to her, and the third was he with whom the
others deliberated." D'Aulon "was not worthy to see this counsel."
From the moment when he heard this, dAulon asked no more ques
tions. Dunois also gave some evidence as to the " counsel." At
Loches, when Jeanne was urging the journey to Rheims, Harcourt
asked her, before the King, what the nature (modus) of the council
was ; how it communicated with her. She replied that when she was
met with incredulity, she went apart and prayed to God. Then she
heard a voice say, Fille DJ, va, va, va, je serai a ton aide, va ! u And
when she heard that voice she was right glad, and would fain be ever
in that state." " As she spoke thus, ipsa miro modo exsultabat, levando
suos oculos ad cmlum" (III., 12). Finally, that Jeanne maintained her
belief to the moment of her death, we learn from the priest, Martin
Ladvenu, who was with her to the last (III., 170). There is no sign
anywhere that at the moment of an " experience," the Maid's aspect
seemed unusual, or uncanny, or abnormal, in the eyes of those who
were in her company.
These depositions were given twenty years later, (1452-56) and, of
course, allowance must be made for weakness of memory and desire to
glorify the Maid. But there is really nothing of a suspicious character
about them. In fact the " growth of legend " was very slight, and is
mainly confined to the events of the martyrdom, the White Dove, the
Name of Christ blazoned in flame, and so forth. It should also have
been mentioned that at the taking of St. Pierre de Moustier (Novem
ber, 1429) Jeanne, when deserted by her forces, declared to d'Aulon
that she was " not alone, but surrounded by fifty thousand of her own."
The men therefore rallied and stormed the place.
This is the sum of the external evidence as to the phenomena. I
have already indicated what is known as to the mental and physical
characteristics of the Maid. Her extreme temperance should also
perhaps be remembered. M. Quicherat writes as if hysterical patients
occasionally fell from great heights "sans lesion," as Jeanne leaped
from the donjon of Beaurevoir. This may be left to the consideration
of physicians.
As to the contents of the communications to Jeanne, they were
.certainly sane, judicious and heroic. M. Quicherat, (Apercus Nou
Tfie Voices of Jeanne d'Arc. 209
veaux, p. 61) distinguishes three classes of abnormally conveyed
knowledge, all on unimpeachable evidence.
(1.) Thought-reading, as in the case of the King's secret ; she
repeated to him the words of a prayer which he had made mentally.
(2.) Clairvoyance, as exhibited in the affair of the sword of Fierbois.
(3.) Prescience, as in the prophecy of her arrow-wound at Orleans.
According to her confessor, Pasquerel, she repeated the prophecy and
indicated the spot in which she would be wounded (under the right
shoulder) on the night of May 6. But this is later evidence given in
the Trial of Rehabilitation.
To these we might add the view, from Vaucouleurs, a hundred
leagues away, of the defeat at Rouvray; the prophecy that she "would
last but a year or little more;" the prophecy, at Melun, of her capture;
the prophecy of the relief of Compiegne ; and the strange affair of the
bon conduit at the battle of Pathay.1 For several of these predictions
we have only the Maid's word, but, to be plain, we can scarcely have
more unimpeachable testimony.
Here the compiler leaves his task : the inferences may be drawn
by experts. The old theory of imposture, the Voltairean theory of a
"poor idiot," are untenable. The honesty and the genius of Jeanne
are no longer denied. If hysteria be named, it is plain that we must
argue that, because hysteria is accompanied by visionary symptoms, all
visions are proofs of hysteria. Michelet holds by hallucinations which
were unconsciously externalised by the mind of Jeanne. That mind
must have been a very peculiar intellect, and the modus is precisely the
difficulty. But " Miss X." avers that, being a strong visualiser, she
often sees her impressions objectively before her, " as a picture." I do
not gather that she also hears, touches, and smells them, as Jeanne did.
Henri Martin believes in some kind of manifestation revealed to the
individual mind by the Absolute. Many Catholics, as yet unauthorised,
I conceive, by the Church, accept the theory of Jeanne herself ; her
saints were true saints from Paradise. It is manifest that visions of a
bright light and "auditions" of voices are common enough phenomena
in madness, and in the experiences of very uninspired men and women,
collected and published by the S.P.R. From the sensations of these
people, Jeanne's phenomena are only differentiated by their number,
by their persistence through seven years of an almost abnormally
healthy life, by their importance, orderliness and veracity, as well as
by their heroic character.
Mr. Myers has justly compared the case of Jeanne with that of
Socrates. A much humbler parallel, curiously close in one respect,
may be cited from M. Janet's article, Les Actes Inconscients dans le
1 IV., 371. 372. Here the authority is Monatrelet, a Burgundian.
210 Andrew Lang.
Somnambulisme (Revue Philosophique, March, 1888). Mr. Myers
analyses and comments on this essay in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. V.,
Part XIII., p. 374.
The case is that of Madame B., a peasant woman near Cherbourg.
She has her common work-a-day personality, called, for convenience,
" Leonie." There is also her hypnotic personality, " Leontine." Now
Leontine (that is, Madame B. in a somnambulistic state,) was one day
hysterical and troublesome. Suddenly she exclaimed in terror that she
heard a voice on the left, crying, "Enough, be quiet, you are a nuisance."
She hunted in vain for the speaker, who, of course, was inaudible to
M. Janet, though he was present. The sagacious speaker, so to say, is
" brought out " by repeated passes, and when this moral and sensible
phase of her character is thus evoked, Madame B. is " Leonore."
Madame B. now sometimes assumes an expression of beatitude,
smiling and looking upwards. As Dunois said of Jeanne when she
was recalling her visions, " miro modo exsultabat levando suos oculos
ad coelum." This ecstacy Madame B. (as Lebnore) dimly remembers,
averring that " she has been dazzled by a light on the left side." Here
apparently we have the best aspect of poor Madame B. revealing
itself in a mixture of hysterics and hypnotism, and associating itself
with an audible sagacious voice and a dazzling light on the left, both
hallucinatory.
The coincidence with Jeanne's earliest experience is most curious.
Audivit vocem a dextero latere .... claritas est ab eoditn
latere in quo vox audilur, sed ibi communiler est magna claritat.
Like Madame B., Jeanne was at first alarmed by these sensations.
The parallel, so far, is perfectly complete. But in Jeanne's case, I
have found no hint of temporary unconsciousness. When strung up to
the most intense mental eagerness in court, she still heard her voices,
though, because of the tumult of the assembly, she heard them indis
tinctly. Thus her experiences are not associated with insanity, partial
unconsciousness, or any physical disturbance (as in some tales of second
sight), while the sagacity of the communications and their veracity
distinguish them from the hallucinations of mad people and of Cotton
Mather. As far as the affair of Rouvray, the prophecy of the instant
death of an insolent soldier at Chinon, (evidence of Pasquerel, her con
fessor), and such things go, we have, of course, many alleged parallels in
the predictions of Mr. Peden and other seers of the Covenant. But Mr.
Peden's political predictions are still unfulfilled, whereas concerning
the " dear gage " which the English should lose in France within seven
years, Jeanne may be called successful.
On the whole, if we explain Jeanne's experiences as the expressions
of her higher self (as Leonore is Madame B.'s higher self), we are com
pelled to ask what is the nature of that self? To one inquirer it seems
The Voices of Jeanne d'Arc. 211
like "something far more deeply interfused" than any mental con
comitant of the cerebral organism.
The evidence for knowledge acquired by no familiar natural channel
of sense sufficed to convince M. Quicherat, whom Pere Ayroles regards
as a free-thinker. Nor have I exhausted all the alleged instances,
from a dislike to drawing on the evidence given in 1452-1456.
In the whole story I am struck by the comparative lack of
miraculous undergrowth of legend. Moreover, when we remember our
current theories of collective hallucinations propagated by enthusiasm,
or feigned by enthusiasts, when we remember that the legend of the
contemporary St. Colette is a tissne of such tales as are told about
D. D. Home, it seems odd that even the later reports concerning
Jeanne are so temperate. Nobody pretends to have heard voices in
her company, to have seen lights or saints, to have beheld her elevated
in air, or even to have seen her chair snatched away, like St. Colette's,
by invisible hands ! When I say, " nobody," I should make an
exception, perhaps, for a Monsieur de Cailly. If a Grant of Arms,
now existing only in a copy made about 1610 by Charles du Lys, is
authentic, Monsieur de Cailly shared with Jeanne at Orleans, in May,
1429, a vision of Angels. The Grant of Arras, permitting him to bear
three Angels' heads, avers that Jeanne herself, in June, 1429, begged
for him this favour. The copyist, Charles du Lys, married a Mademois
elle de Cailly, and doubtless copied a document belonging to her
family. Jeanne healed no diseases, and refused credit for the
momentary recovery of a new-born child at Lagny, in April, 1430.
Thus it seems that " contagious enthusiasm in a credulous age," even
in the presence of one who was herself a miracle, does not always
generate a rich undergrowth of legend.
I began by saying that I could find no work on Jeanne d'Arc by
a psychological expert. The remarks of Brierre de Boismont are
singularly inadequate. The sun flashing on the church window caused
the first experience, and so forth. How much does the sun flash,
outside, from a medieval window of stained glass 1 A few attempts
at a pathological explanation rest on a late rumour reported at third
hand. I have not consulted the Zoist, Vol. XIII., p. 257. The Comte
de Bourbon Lignieres, while he assails the theory of hallucinations, is
hardly to be regarded as himself a scientific expert. Finally, I have
been unable to procure an essay by Captain Marin, in which,
according to M. Lanery dArc, he regards the apparitions to Jeanne as
objective, and of the same spiritualistic category as the famous Katie
King.
To state the facts, with some criticism of the evidence, has been
my sole object, nor can I add a conjecture to the many unsatisfactory
hypotheses about this mystery of the Maid. Were I compelled to
212 Andrew I.ang.
pronounce an opinion, it would be to some such effect as this : Follow
ing Brierre de Boismont as against Lelut, I should think that persons
entirely sane may be so constituted as to see and hear, as if externally,
their ideas and mental impressions.
It would be impossible for Jeanne, as it was for Socrates, to regard
these experiences as other than objective and caused by external
influences. Thus I should have no hesitation about considering her
experiences mere constitutional externalisations of her ideas. But
the evidence showing that the contents of the messages received by
her were such as she could not have learned in any normal way is so
strong that I am compelled to believe in some abnormal extension of
faculty, corresponding to her native and unparalleled genius. To a
certain extent, she was admitted within the arcana and sanctuary of
the universe.
" Come to the Salp^triere," said a man of science to an Abbe\
" and I will show you twenty Jeannes d'Arc." " Has one of them
given us back Alsace and Lorraine 1 " said the Abbe\
There is the crux.
Resolute Credulity. 2i:i
in.
RESOLUTE CREDULITY.
By Frederic W. H. Myers.
The work of the Society for Psychical Research in its own
sphere resembles in some important points that of the Charity
Organisation Society in the sphere of almsgiving. The C.O.S. has had
to deal with a widespread and worthy although often an ill-directed
and even ruinous impulse—the impulse to relieve the physical
wants of other men. In its endeavours to guide that impulse into the
best channels the C.O.S. encounters two contrasted, or rather comple
mentary, forms of evil. On the one side there is the credulity, the
indolence, the vanity of the reckless giver ; on the other side there is
the helplessness, the fraud, the vice and cruelty which the ill-judged
boons encourage or engender. We too, on our part, deal with a wide
spread and noble impulse ;—although an impulse whose misdirection
has made the saddest side of human history. Our motive power is
furnished by man's innate longing to penetrate the Realm Unseen ;—
that world-old desire which is now taking on itself a new definiteness
and intensity as science is accustoming men's minds to a standard of
more assured and verifiable certainty than contented the aspirations of
earlier men.
And we meet in this inquiry also those two complementary causes
of error which make earthly charity so hard to dispense aright. On
the one side we too often find credulity, indolence, vanity ; on the
other side the fraud and falsehood which that credulity generates
and that indolence allows. For us also, as for the C.O.S., it is needful
from time to time to utter a word of warning ; to define anew the
spirit in which we hold that high truth should be sought ; to point
out some blind pathways which as yet have led only to deceit and
disillusion.
Once more then I must repeat, (since men on the side both of
belief and of negation seem slow to understand it), that our very
raison d'etre as a Society is that we endeavour to be scientific and not
partisan ; that the persons of widely different views and experiences
who compose our group unite only in the strong desire to be careful,
thorough, dispassionate ; since we know well that in that temper only
shall we arrive at truth.
" We exist,"—to quote a letter written by Edmund Gurney and
myself to the S.P.R. Journal for January 1887,—" we exist in order to
214 Frederic W. H. Myers.
carry, if we can, the methods of recognised science into a region where no
recognised science as yet has forced its way. And we appeal with equal
sincerity to each of the groups which stand aloof from us on either
side, to help us in the task which we have undertaken. To those who
deem us credulous we say, ' Criticise our methods, and we will do our
best to improve them. Attack our evidence, and we will strengthen or
abandon it.' And to those who think us over-sceptical we say similarly,
' Offer us more and better evidence, and you will find that there is
nothing to which we oppose a mere a priori denial,—no case which we
will not set forth with candour and criticise with care.' "
Our history during the eight years since these words were written
has not, I hope, been inconsistent with their tenor. We have set forth
much fresh evidence ; and among it much evidence to phenomena for
which, when we began our labours, there was little testimony which
seemed to stand examination. My own writings, especially, are likely
to be oftener attacked as exhibiting an excessive, than an insufficient,
tendency to belief. It may therefore be useful if I here enumerate
certain theses for which we have not, in my view, received evidence
enough to give them even a primd facie claim to be regarded as true.
These unproved theses, however, are not all on the same footing.
Some of them might conceivably be established to-morrow. To believe
in others of them indicates, I think, that resolute, predetermined
credulity against which it is the purpose of this paper to protest. But
of all alike I may say that the man who alludes to any one of these
theses as true is bound, in my view, at the same time to state or refer
to the definite and provable facts which justify his conclusion. In all
cases alike, however, he will probably prefer simply to say that the
existing evidence is too voluminous to be printed on that particular
occasion.
Thesis 1.—There is such a thing as "Occult Science" or Magic ;
and supernormal powers, especially in the East, are trans
mitted by tradition, or acquired by ascetic practices, so that
the possessors of such powers can understand and control
them.
I was once disposed to believe in the truth of some parte at
least of this thesis, but the study of various books and periodicals
written to defend it has destroyed that tendency to belief.1 Dr.
Hodgson's paper on "Indian Magic" (S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. IX.,
p. 354) was not calculated to reassure me. Since that paper was
written, however, some articles by " Heinrich Hensoldt, Ph.D.,''
1 I do not of course mean to assert that there may not be tricks depending on
suggestion, or even on telepathy, which may be handed down in country places and
may enter into "folk-lore,"—a very different matter from the claim discussed above.
Resolute Credulity. 215
have appeared in the Arena (an American monthly magazine which
gives some space to these topics), which articles, if true, establish
all the occultism that could be desired. Dr. Hodgson and I examined
these papers, and concluded that they were entirely unworthy of
notice Mr. Stead printed a story of Dr. Hensoldt's in Borderland ;
bat with reserve, as "one of a series of articles which were undoubtedly
thrilling, and might be true." It is fortunate that he did so, as this
led to an interview in which Dr. Hensoldt told Mr. Stead " that
in the main he was quite sure that his facts were correct. but
that he had written them up a little." 1 In Borderland for April,
1895, p. 168, Mr. Stead prints, along with this statement of Dr.
Hensoldt's, an article from the Ceylon Observer (date not given), from
which, if no answer is forthcoming, it certainly appears that Dr.
Hensoldt's story was a tissue of deliberate falsehoods. As Dr.
Hensoldt has been lecturing in America, and "has been much pleased
by the universal interest which his discourses upon Indian occultism
have roused among the educated classes of the United States," it is to
be hoped that the Arena will presently educate those classes a little
further in his direction.
Tlusis 2.—Mahatmas exist in Thibet ; Mme. Blavatsky's occult per
formances and those of her friends were genuine,—and (this
last clause is now optional) have been continued since her
death by Mr. Judge.
I do not propose to say anything more on all this. History tells us
that Moseilana after the death of Mahomet introduced an egg into a
bottle, and by the marvel of that s'igh^ shook the prestige of the
Prophet and balanced for some months the destinies of Islam.
An egg in a bottle ! One might exhibit an apple in a dumpling to
Mr. Judge's admirers, and ask them triumphantly what they had to
say to thai.
Thesis 3.—The heavenly bodies indicate or influence in an occult
way the destinies of men.
I do not know on what evidence this belief is based.
Thesis i.—The lines in a man's hand indicate his history, character,
and destiny.
I have seen no evidence of any value for this proposition.
Thesis 5.—By the act of bathing in or drinking the water of
the spring at Lourdes, or of other sacred springs ; or by
1 We are quite familiar in the S.P.E. with the genial admission of " writing up a
little." It has put a sudden end to many correspondences.
216 Frederic W. H. Myers.
invocations of a special kind ; or by the practice of a
" Christian Science," which can be learnt from books and
lectures, therapeutic results are attained which differ in kind
from those which ordinary suggestion or self-suggestion,
without any of these adjuncts, occasionally produces.
On this point I may refer to a paper by my late brother and myself
in Proceedings, Vol. IX, p. 1 60, and to a discussion of the Holywell cures
by the Rev. A. T. Fryer in the S.P.R. Journal for May, 1895. Since
the article in Proceedings M. Zola's work on Lourdes has appeared, and
has been recognised on both sides as a serious study of the problem.
His descriptions from personal observation of the constatation or
proof of the cures—descriptions whose accuracy has not, so far as
I know, been seriously questioned—are absolutely confirmatory of the
conclusions drawn, from mere study of the literature favourable to
Lourdes, by my brother and myself.1
I will add that I am personally very anxious that some part of the
above thesis should be proved true ;—that is to say that some method
should be found by which the processes of therapeutic self-suggestion,
at present so rarely effective, should be made more certain and
more profoundly efficacious. I cannot but think that there must
be some such method ; but I see little evidence that it has yet
been found.
Thesis 6.—Some public showmen now use in their exhibitions some
form of supernormal power.
I should be very willing to believe this thesis, which would show
more regularity in the operation of telepathy or clairvoyance than we
have ever seen attained in experiments. But I see no proof that
it is true of any public performer at the present time ; and I shall
presently quote two cases where supernormal powers which audiences
have believed to exist can be shown to be in no wise needed to explain
the phenomena. On the other hand I remember that when some of
our group were learning and buying tricks from a conjurer, some twenty
years ago, she told us that it was not worth our while to buy her code-
trick, because her occasional specially good hits depended, as she be
lieved, on thought-transference from the man who went round looking
at the articles which she guessed. She said that she was obliged to
pay this man, who was not in other respects useful, because she found
that she could not get the same clear knowledge of objects from other
confederates equally trained in the code. This is no proofof super-
i A narrative given by Dr. Pierre Delbet (Revue dc Parit, 1895, p. 628) suggests
considerable doubt as to the good faith of some of the religious bodies who announce
cures.
Resolute Credulity. 217
normal powers ; but it is nearer proof than is the mere fact that many
spectators have been puzzled by many codes.1
Thetis 7. — Some public mediums now giving seances are pro
ducing genuine phenomena of movements at a distance or of
materialisation.
I do not feel by any means certain that this thesis is wholly false.
Believing as I do that genuine phenomena occur both through Eusapia
Faladino and through various private persons known to me ; and
believing also that genuine phenomena have at one time or other
occurred through more than one public medium, it would not surprise me
to receive proof that something genuine was thus occurring now. But
when I consider the great difference between the care and skill which
We been devoted to the investigation of Eusapia (I am of course not
thinking of my own minute share in that long inquiry) and the kind of
observation on which other contemporary claims are mainly based, I
feel bound to draw the line as I have done.
I shall presently give accounts of two sittings with Mr. Husk, which
illustrate the modest equipment of capacity on which a toi-disant medium
can live and prosper. But the most important source of information
on this subject is a pamphlet compiled by Mr. John Curtis, of Boston,
with a preface by the late Colonel Bundy, of Chicago, editor of the
Rdigio-PhUosophical Journal. Colonel Bundy firmly believed in the
genuineness of some of these phenomena, and the newspaper which he
edited was distinctly spiritualistic ; but with admirable courage and
disinterestedness he made it a large part of his business to expose the
lThe reader may refer to Borderland for July, 1894, p. 422, for Miss X.'s
account of the performance of Mr. Jesse Shepard, the "musical medium,''—an
account concordant with the view of other competent musical critics. There is no
reason whatever to credit Mr. Shepard with any powers more supernormal than a
high falsetto voice and a judicious use of the left elbow.
Mr. Hamilton Aidé has favoured me with the following graphic description of
one of Mr. Shepard's seances ;—charge, a guinea a head for each auditor :—
"Shepard informed me that he was an uncultured musician—a statement which
his subsequent performance fully verified ; also, that he was inspired at wiil by the
spirits of Mozart, Beethoven, Mendelssohn, etc. This was a greater demand on my
credulity. And yet I believe there are many who have swallowed the astounding
pretension without difficulty. The spirit of a young lady in the schoolroom was,
apparently, the one who descended upon S.'s shoulders, arms, and hands (and
descended heavily, too) on this occasion. As long as he played in full
lamplight his performance was beneath criticism. When the room was reduced to
total darkness and he played what he termed " The Passage of the Israehtes over
the Red Sea," a curious and clever effect to imitate the trampling of horses and
rambling of chariots was produced by—what part of his body or what mechancial
contrivance I know not, but clearly the thing was a trick. Of his vocal powers,
thich he justly considers abnormal, I can truly say that anything so terrible and
hideous I never heard issue from the human throat—varying from the roarnf a bull
to the screech of a mackaw. One felt glad there were not more vocal spirits let loose
npon the world."
218 Frederic W. H. Myers.
fraudulent materialisations which are unfortunately still too common in
the United States. The pamphlet referred to is called " Some account
of the Vampires of Onset, past and present." It is published by S.
Woodberry and Co., 105, Summer-street, Boston, Mass., price ten cents.
It should be in the hands of every inquirer. " Onset " is the name of
the " Camp " or settlement of tents, where spiritualistic gatherings
are held in the summer, and where these persons drive their trade.
Among the " Vampires " exposed in this collection of legal documents,
sworn statements, and other contemporary and first-hand evidence are
Mrs. Hannah V. Ross, Mrs. Amanda M. Cowan, Mrs. Carrie M. Sawyer,
" Dr." D. J. Stansbury, and Mrs. M. E. Williams, who has lately been
exposed in Paris.1 It is to be regretted that wider publicity had not
been given to these pages by spiritualistic papers ; for although no
actual catching of Mrs. 'Williams' rag-doll or herself is recorded in
this pamphlet, certain other facts there given would have prevented
any lady from permitting her presence.
It is in the continued patronage accorded to many of these Vampires
and Jezebels—in their rapid transits through the sliding panel and the
divorce-court—that I find the strongest instance of that resolute, that
immutable, that immoral credulity which almost makes one wish to see
some of the dupes in the dock alongside of their deceivers. I have felt a
similar wish when I have seen a man who had dined toss half-a-crowa
to a maudlin woman in the rainy street, while she pinched the hired baby-
that she was slowly murdering for the sake of those very half-crowns.-
I proceed now to some of the concrete cases of which I have spoken
1 Dr. Hodgson writes to me : " Mr. Curtis has in his possession masses of material
taken from Mrs. Hannah V. Ross, Mrs. H. B. Fay, Mrs. Bliss, Mrs. Hull, Mrs.
Amanda M. Cowan, Mrs. Fairchild, the Berry sisters, and Mrs. Holmes, at the
times when these persons were seen posing as spirits."
Dr. Hodgson also sends me much matter, published and unpublished, re the
detected frauds of several mediums, especially the Bangs sisters and one Keeler (not
the conjurer of that name). We hold all this in readiness for printing, if required ;
but after reviewing much of what has already been printed on both sides of the
controversy, I think that the evidence for widespread fraud throughout all this
group is already so strong and the evidence for genuine phenomena anywhere in the
group so weak, that few of our readers can need further caution.
- 1 am afraid that Mr. A. R. Wallace may protest against this passage ; and
I desire respectfully here to anticipate an attack from him to which I shall not wish
otherwise to reply. I regard Mr. Wallace's testimony with regard to the character of
public mediums as precisely on a par with the testimony of Marcus Aurelius
Antoninus with regard to the character of Faustina. There are natures—and, as in
the case of Marcus, such natures may belong to the wisest of men—which stand so far
removed from the meaner temptations of humanity that those thus gifted at birth can
no more enter into the true mind of a cheat than I can enter into the true mind of a
chimpanzee. Only may such spirits judge us also at the'end ! However far they may
be above us, we shall have nought to fear,—
Because the unstained, the clear, the crystalline
Have ever in them something of benign.
Resolute Credulity. 21 1I
above. Roughly speaking, we have to meet three main modes of
producing illusion. There is the skilful use of natural forces ; there is
the employment of confederates ; and, last not least, there is simple
" suggestion "—some would call it sheer effrontery—supported by
darkness and by appropriate " patter."
I quote first Professor Lodge's account of Mrs. Abbott's exhibition :—
On The Mechanical Performance of Mm. Abbott, Recently
Advertised as "The Georgia Maonbt."
My attention has been called to an article by Dr. Henri (ioudard in the
Jan.-Feb., 1895, number of the Annates des Sciences Psychiitues, wherein that
gentleman relates his experience with Miss or Mrs. Abbott in Paris, finds
himself unable to agree with the short summary quoted correctly as embody
ing my opinion by Professor Richet, and asks me to state at greater length
why I recognise nothing abnormal in the performance.
I will answer his courteously worded request briefly, but I hope definitely.
The extracts given by Dr. Goudard from the " Figaro " are not scientific
or precise in their terms. I pass at once to the experience of Dr. Goudard
himself, as described by him in the paper referred to.
/.—A man IuAdsa chairfirmly against his chest and is then puslml about
by tlu operator, irho appears to exert wry little force on the chair.
The experiment is easily repeated by anybody, and the subject of it is
usually surprised at the apparent strength of the person operating. The right
hand of the operator need exert no force at all, and it is to this hand that
intention is directed ; force is exerted by the left hand near the chest of the
patient, and in an unexpected direction, first pushing and then Ilulling, or
rice versa. It is the unexpected and sudden variation of the force which
throws the patient off his balance, especially if he has strongly braced him
self to meet and oppose a force in the wrong direction.
I do not remember having seen Experiment II., so I pass on to the next,
which is an important one.
III.—The operator stands on one foot holding a billiard-cue while a tall
strong man is then asked to push her backicards by steady pressure on the cue,
andfaHs.
To succted with this experiment the operator must be short and strong in
the arms. When a tall person is pushing against a short person he is push
ing largely downwards, and by standing on a heel the body of the short
person can become a strut almost in the direction of the force. If she can
then maintain her arms rigid there is no chance of pushing her backwards.
Untimely and unexpected pushes are not permitted, and if the cue is lowered
so that the pushing becomes more horizontal, she abandons it for a time and
rests or changes the person ; the rules of the game have to be adhered to if
the experiment is to succeed. With the cue held well up, a short strong
woman can repeat the experiment, as I have verified. When four or five
men push on the same cue they get in each other's way—the cue bends so
that the end men refrain from exerting much force, and the thing degenerates
largely into a farce.
220 Frederic W. H. Myers.
With one or two men the experiment is certainly surprising, but it is
simply and purely mechanical. A man pushing somewhat downwards can
exert singularly little propulsive force. The magnitude of it depends on the
position of his centre of gravity and the amount by which a vertical through
it outlies his toes. He stands on one leg and instinctively throws the weight
of his other leg forward to get as much moment as he can, but the fact that
the position of this free leg makes a material difference shows how slight is
the force really exerted. On the other hand a person standing on a heel and
pushing upward and forwards is in a position to sustain a very considerable
load.
The conditions are entirely reversed when the force exerted is a pull
instead of a push. A tall heavy man has then a great advantage. Tug of
war in a standing position depends upon weight and height ; and if Mrs.
Abbott had been able to engage successfully in a tug of war with me, it
would have been a direct proof of something abnormal. I spent altogether
some hours fruitlessly in trying to persuade her and her exhibitors to permit
me to try in private any form of pulling experiment. But the most
frivolous pretexts were brought forward, such as the presence of a carpet
on the floor, etc., and the test was resolutely declined.
IV.—She holds a billiard cue in a slanting, nearly vertical position, and askt
some one to force its point to the ground by sliding it along her open palms.
This experiment can be repeated by any one with strong enough arras.
It was not so invariably successful with Mrs. Abbott, and is not one of her
best tricks. If the operator can get an energetic person to push vigorously,
the friction of the open palms is sufficient to prevent the cue from sliding,
(again rather surprising, but easily verifiable), but if a languid person,
without pushing against the operator, simply exerts force in the direction
of the cue's length, it slides down with perfect ease. A practised exhibitor
is, however, prepared for this, and is able to evade the attempt, or to dis
count it in some way.
I remember the stethoscopic feat numbered V., but I was not impressed
by it. Perhaps I too ignorantly accredit the human body with the power
of purposely generating slight sounds when they are listened for
attentively.
VI.—She presents her elbows to a person standing behind her, and requests
to be lifted by them. Sometimes she can thus be lifted, sometimes the cannot.
This experiment is certainly singular. It appears that this mode of
raising a person is not far from the margin of what is possible without
overbalancing oneself. One has to stand rather vertically, and one has
very little moment adapted to support a weight placed in one's hands held
out horizontally. If the operator holds her elbows well back the lifting
can be done, but if she draws them forward even slightly, the lifting cannot
be done. I conjecture that a man with extra long feet, and stiffly soled flat
boots, and short fore-arms, would have an advantage in this mode of
lifting, and might be able to succeed in lifting the person in spite of the
awkward position of her elbows. The lifting can always be done if the
elbows are forcibly drawn back first ; but this brings the dress and body
into contact, and that is not considered fair.
Resolute C-redulity. 221
It was not pretended that there was any real increase in weight such as
a balance could show, and in fact a rough balance test, improvised by Professor
Fitzgerald, tended to disprove any such increase. It is therefore quite
different from the levitations testified to by Mr. Crookes. The effect
only pretends to be subjective, i.e., one to be tested by a human being.
A human being so arranged as a balance is a deceptive one, and his margin
of lifting is very narrow, owing to the small basis afforded by his feet. A
lever or bracket projecting from a pillar standing in a pair of human boots
would have very little lifting power, especially if the weight were applied
somewhat far out towards the free end.
VII.—She stands with her hands lightly agiiiiut a wall and then asks to be
pushed up to the wall by pressure on her back.
This is a modification of No. III. The pushing force of a man on a short
person is less than he expects, and the purchase given her by pressure mi the
wall is precisely in the right direction and is sufficient to balance all the force
necessary. The palms of her hands may indeed be tested and found not to
touch the wall, but some part of her finger-tips always touches, and these
finger-nails will be seen to go white, indicating pressure. The experiment
is easy enough for any one to do.
I did not see experiment VIII., but conjecture that it depends on the
known fact that a child willing to be lifted and holding itself properly can
easily be raised, whereas a child unwilling and limp is comparatively difficult
to sustain. The reason, doubtless, depends on the mode of holding ; a mode
which may be sufficient in the one case can be made quite inadequate in the
other.
IX.—The apparent difficidty of being lifted is transmitted to another
person.
When I saw this experiment it was performed thus :—
A loutish boy was called in, and his hands held with fore-arms horizontally
by Mrs. Abbott. Any one was then asked to raise him by the ellwws,
standing behind him in the orthodox way. My opinion is, that when she
wished him " light " she pushed his elbows a trifle back, and when she
wished him "heavy " she drew them a little forward. That so small a
motion of the elbows makes all the difference constitutes the beauty of the
trick. In one case the weight is below, in the other it is above the load
possible with the given condition of leverage. That is how I saw the perform
ance, but if I had seen it as Dr. Goudard apparently has seen it, tried with a
child of five years old, I should, I suppose, have been much more impressed.
I cannot, of course, say what other circumstances might have modified
the view one would naturally have been compelled to take if the facts were
precisely as now described by him. -
X.—A billiard cue standing vertically on the ground is to be pressed down
by fhe hands of a number ofpersons placed on the top of it, while a man who
has clambered up and perched himself there is seated upon these hands ; the
operator then easily raises the cue, grasping it anywhere with one hand.
This is a sort of psychological experiment. If the reader pictures him
self as one of those with hands on top of and pressing down the cue, he will
t
222 Frederic W. H. Myers.
realise that the consequences of a break in the cue appeal forcibly to his
imagination, and it is not improbable that without knowing it he will be
assisting to sustain the weight of the seated person, rather than doing what
he supposes every one else to be doing, viz., vigorously pressing down. Under
these conditions it is perhaps only surprising that the cue does not rise even
without the gentle upward force exerted by the operator.
XI.—Five or six persons are sitting and sprawling on a chair, which the
operator then momentarily raises or jerksfor an instant from the flwlr.
This experiment is performed with a special chair with a narrow and
uncomfortable seat. The man to be seated is selected of a suitable height
for his feet to be well on the floor, and, by the time the other men have
sprawled on his lap, most of their weight is really sustained by his legs and
feet, especially if the operator standing behind the chair begins to tilt it up.
The experiment is rather a farcical one, as the raising is only momentary and
it results in a sprawl on the floor for the bodies insecurely propped, rather
than supported, by the chair.
It is, I know, asserted that very little force is exerted by the operator's
hands ; it is also asserted that none is exerted by her knees. But in my
experience the tests for these two things are not made together, and the
tilting or jerking up can be done either way, with the help of the fore-arms.
With a suitable chair it is an experiment which any one can try, and he may
be surprised to find how readily the necessary force can be exerted. If Mrs.
Abbott does not do it by muscular exertion, why does she stand in precisely
that position which would be chosen by a person who had only muscular
exertion to rely on ?
I have now dealt, I hope sufficiently, with all the more important
statements of Dr. Goudard. I only answer for what I myself saw, but I
was not satisfied by one visit, nor did I come to a final conclusion till I had
tried experiments with other persons of suitable size. It will be observed
that I conclude that the feats are ingeniously chosen to suit a short person,
and that Mrs. Abbott, though small and in appearance frail, is probably
very muscular, at any rate in the arms. Perhaps Dr. Goudard noticed that
her fore-arms exhibited more muscle than is common in her sex.
I did not offer any public statement1 at the time she was exhibiting in
England, beyond the bare fact that in my opinion there was nothing occult in
the matter, because I had no wish to injure the exhibition, which was a
fairly good and entertaining exhibition of well chosen feats of strength and
skill. Nothing shown to me demanded the exercise of actual " fraud "; nor
was there any prominent subterfuge or pretence, beyond the name
"Magnet," which to the populace may signify anything or nothing. At any
rate, the public who paid to see Mrs. Abbott's performance obtained full
value for their money, and investigators were treated with a very fair amount
of frankness even by her exhibitors ; and that she should decline to attempt
feats impossible to do by normal physics was after all perfectly legitimate as
a matter of business, which indeed the whole show was.
Oliver J. Lodge.
March, 1895.
1 The account given in the S.P.R. Journal, Vol. V., p. 16S, was not a publication.
Resolute Credulity. 223
I have also three other first-hand, independent, and concordant
accounts of Mrs. Abbott's muscular and other tricks—(1) from James
H. Hyslop, Professor of Logic and Ethics in Columbia College, New
York City ; (2) from the Rev. Solon Laner, known to Dr. Hodgson
(account first printed in Religio-Philosophical Journal) ; (3) from Dr.
Hodgson himself.
Professor Hyslop's long and careful analysis is based upon notes
taken the day after the performance. He succeeded in himself
repeating almost all Mrs. Abbott's tricks, his agreement with Dr.
Lodge as to their modus operandi being very close. He takes, how
ever, a more serious view of the amount of actual and conscious
falsehood in Mrs. Abbott's statements, and demurs, for instance, to
accepting the same child as this lady's daughter one day and as a
disinterested stranger from among the audience the next.
Mr. Laner describes certain phenomena which Mrs. Abbott seems
to have abstained from attempting in Professor Lodge's presence :—
One of her cleverest performances was the weighing trick, which
deceived the audience and all the committee, including the man who did the
weighing (a prestidigitator), I alone claiming it to be a trick, and showing
the method of its performance after the exhibition was over. The trick was
as follows :—First, Mrs. Abbott called for me to stand on the platform of an
ordinary pair of scales to be weighed. She instructed mo to stand on the
iron portion of the platform, which was about five inches wide, running
around the platform. I stood with one foot on each side of the platform,
my weight being nearly in the middle of the platform, measuring length
wise. In this position the weight registered was my normal weight, about
140 pounds. Then I stepped off the scales, and Mrs. Abbott stepped on.
But she took a position differing from mine, as I observed. Her feet were
placed on the extreme rear of the platform, across the rear corners, her heels
being just on the rim of the platform. I asked her to place one foot forward,
but she objected that she must stand on the iron portion. I remarked that
the iron extended all the way around the scales, but she still persisted in her
position. Standing thus, she easily caused her weight to fluctuate, by
tipping up the front of the platform slightly, and then lowering it again,
and the man who was weighing her was not able to move the weight fast
enough to record the fluctuations.
It should be said before describing the second stage of this performance
that all members of the committee, save myself, were by her request seated
at the rear of the stage, where they could not observe closely her position
on the scales. I had been standing near her, and when she began this
performance, sat down opposite the scales, where I had a favourable view.
The man at the scales was too busy with the weights to observe carefully.
The audience could not see the details on account of distance.
The second stage of the weighing trick was as follows :—A small box was
handed round among the committee, and pronounced unsuspicious. It was
then placed behind the scales, and I noticed that it was just the height of
the platform, which it touched at the rear end. This box was ostensibly for
t 2
224 Frederic W. H. Myers.
a man to stand upon, in order that he might bear down on Mrs. Abbott's
shoulders, as she stood upon the platform of the scales. When this man
bore down upon her shoulders the scales registered many pounds less than
her normal weight, (which she stated to be 98 pounds, but which, I should
say, was nearly 120 pounds). The explanation of this trick was very easy to
me when I saw that her feet were so placed that her heels rested on the box
behind her, which thus relieved the scales of much of the weight of herself
and of the man who was vigorously pushing down on her shoulders.
The third stage was as follows :—A board smaller than the top of the
platform of the scales was placed on the platform, ostensibly for insulating
persons. Then Mrs. Abbott invited the man who had previously pushed
down on her shoulders to now partially lift her from the scales, and while
he was doing this her weight was reported to be several pounds more than
normal. This trick was performed by pushing the board with her foot so
that it rested partly on the box, before the man who was to lift her had
stepped upon the box. In the excitement he did not notice the board, and
thus he and Mrs. Abbott were both standing on this board, one end of
which rested upon the scales, throwing the greater part of their combined
weight upon the platform. Although the man lifted her from the platform,
he still stood on the board, and thus did not lift her weight from the scales,
but rather added part of his own weight. The scales registered 150 pounds,
if I remember rightly. This was the last performance on the programme,
and without waiting for any report from the committee, the audience rushed
out, exclaiming upon the marvellous things they had witnessed. The other
members of the committee crowded around Mrs. Abbott expressing their
profound astonishment at her gifts. My own congratulations were upon the
clever exhibition she had given, and were received with suspicion. The
man who did the weighing was, he said, a prestidigitator, but failed to
learn the modus operandi of any of her tricks, but confessed himself satisfied
when I did the scales trick, and allowed him to do the weighing as before.
Other tricks would be difficult to describe in detail, but may be briefly
mentioned. She produced a snapping noise on a tumbler, by holding it
with a handkerchief, slipping her thumb or finger along on the glass,
producing thus a noise like the crackling of electricity. I did the same
afterward. A physician was called on the stage to take her temperature
with a clinical thermometer. He reported it to be three degrees below the
normal point, indicating an abnormal condition, which in a patient would
be considered very dangerous. I did the same thing the next day with a
physician's thermometer, by slyly inhaling through the lips, and exhaling
through the nostrils, thus keeping a current of cold air playing on the tube
of the thermometer, and putting the temperature at five degrees below the
normal, yet I still live.
Dr. Hodgson himself saw Mrs. Abbott in Boston in 1889, when
she must, he thinks, have been less expert than now. He pushed her
against the wall, and forced the vertical cue to the ground, then
refused to endeavour to lift her unless allowed to stand on a chair.
This was imprudently permitted, and he then lifted her from the
ground with ease. At that date the exhibition, he thinks, was more
Resolute Citdulity. 225
definitely spiritualistic, and therefore, under the circumstances, more
definitely fraudulent, than it has been since she achieved a wider
reputf.
The next case which I shall quote depends on the use of confederates.
The stern moralist might object to some of the private deceptions
which seem to have been necessary to secure the public effect.
Mr. 6. A. Smith, from whom the account comes, is already known
to readers of these Proceedings as an acute observer.
Brighton, Dtcember, 1894.
[After describing the great recent success at Brighton of Mrs. Baldwin's
"Somnomancy," Mr. G. A. Smith continues :—]
The performance generally began with a cabiliet sealice, in which some
times the " Professor " and sometimes his wife acted aa "medium." This
kind of exhibition is now too common to arouse much interest, so, although
this part of the show was patiently endured, it excited no enthusiasm. At
its termination Professor Baldwin sent several assistants amongst the
audience to distribute slips of paper and pencils, also small squares of mill
board to serve as desks. Some forty or fifty of these conveniences would be
distributed in different parts of the hall, the recipients being told that they
might write any question upon the paper, fold it up and stow it in their
pockets—the pencils and mill-boards being then collected by the assistants
and deposited on the stage in full view of the audience. The mill-boards
were ostensibly offered to prevent the inconvenience of writing upon the
knee; the "Professor" frankly referred to the theory of preparation and
ridiculed it, stating that if any preferred to discard the mill-board they were
at liberty to do so—indeed they might use their own paper and pencils, and
might in fact write their questions at home and come to the hall with them
safely concealed in their pockets. The great thing was to keep the question
vividly in mind, and it had been found by experience that to write it down
there and then was a help towards this end. He further said that he could
only control Mrs. Baldwin's " visions " to a very limited extent himself ; and
only an uncertain proportion of those who had written questions would be
likely to receive answers.
After this business some serpentine dancing, some character songs, and a
nigger were inflicted upon the audience, and then Mrs. Baldwin was led on
with her eyes bandaged and seated in the centre of the stage.
Her method of procedure now was somewhat as follows:— "There is a
Kate Jones somewhere—in the gallery, I think—somewhere on the left—
she wants to know what became of the stone from her fancy ring—she won't
get it back—it fell in the cinders when she was over the grate—I can't
trace it further to-night." As soon as the name of Kate Jones was announced
that personage was instructed to hold up her paper, an assistant would go
and take it from her, bring it to the Professor who had taken his stand at
the foot of the steps leading up to the stage, and he would unfold it and
read out the question immediately Mrs. Baldwin's answer was given. The
question in this instance was probably, " Where shall I find the stone miss
ing from my ring ? Kate Jones." The questions were all of this type more or
226 Frederic W. H Myers.
less, and Mrs. Baldwin's answers were generally a mixture of skilful general
ities and bold dramatic detail, but never contained matter which could be
either denied or confirmed on the spot. The real cleverness of the business
however lay in the extra "visions," so to speak, which often clustered round
the bare question. For instance, Mrs. Baldwin would say, "There's a lady
sitting here—somewhere just beneath me—whose mind is fixed upon some
thing like—like—oh ! a cat. Why, yes—that cat's been lost—it's lost now,
too ! " The assistant meanwhile approached the lady (who was beamingly
holding her paper up), spoke a few words to her, took her folded paper,
carried it to the Professor, who opened and read it, saying, " Yes, Mrs. Bald
win is certainly on the right track—now we'll just see if we can't catch
this cat." Then turning to Mrs. Baldwin, "How long has it been lost ?
Can you tell us 1 " Mrs. Baldwin would make an effort and finally say, "It
has been away from home some years—one—two- why, it must be nearly four
years." "Is that so, madam?" the Professor would enquire. "Quite
true," from the delighted lady. Then the Professor would read aloud from
her paper, " What became of my favourite Persian cat ? " and he would draw
attention to the fact that no hint was given in it as to the date of the
animal's disappearance. He would then proceed, " Mrs. Baldwin seems to
be right on this cat's trail—we'll chase it home any way." Then, turning to
her, "Can you tell us what that pussy's name was now?" Here he would
hasten on the stage, go behind her and make some violent passes towards the
back of her head, the pianist meanwhile striking a loud and sustained
chord. Mrs. Baldwin would start, strain, and declare with a gasping effort
that the cat's name was "Dick." The lady having been called upon to
confirm this, Mrs. Baldwin would add some details to the effect that two
men (described) had been instrumental in getting the cat away, they sold it for
a good bit—it seemed next in a dealer's shop—and seemed now to be in a
good home—in the country—seemed well cared for. This case was one
which actually came under my own notice. I watched every phase of it,
and it affords a type of and a key to the whole performance. The date of
the cat's disappearance and its name were both communicated to the assis
tant in answer to his enquiries when he collected the lady's paper, and he in
turn communicated them to Baldwin in a passing whisper, whereupon Bald
win mounted the stage and whispered the word "Dick" to Mrs. Baldwin
under cover of the piano, but still quite loud enough for my companions
and me to hear. Sometimes the Professor would communicate with Mrs. B.
by means of a code, but I never saw this used except when dates were to be
communicated, when it seemed to be invariably used.
I saw the exhibition three times from a position in the stalls close to
Baldwin. Again and again I saw assistants bring him the folded papers and
at the same time rapidly mutter some information extracted from the
enquirer ; and I got to know two or three of the words used in the number
code between Mr. and Mrs. Baldwin.
In the case of some questions such as, " When shall I be married ? " "Shall
I pass my examination ? " and so on, the answer was easy enough to frame
without the intermediate assistance of the "Professor." Mrs. Baldwin's
replies often admitted of no proof—nor could they be disproved ; but they
excited wonder all the same, for the simple reason that an appropriate
Resolute Credulity. 227
answer to an unseen question was a marvel in itself. The ground-work of
the whole thing was the well-known pad trick.
Amongst the numerous mill-boards distributed to the audience were a
good many innocent-looking thin pads, and these probably contained a
sheet of carbon paper concealed, so that anything written would leave an
impression beneath. These pads were distributed judiciously by the assis
tants, who stood by ready to take them again at once, after use. I never
received one of these, nor did any of my friends. I never received answer*, to
any of my questions written upon the plain mill-boards, nor did any of my
friends. On the other hand, when one of the audience within my range of
observation received something to write upon which was obviously not a mill
board like mine, that person received an answer to his question. The assis
tants no doubt kept these prepared pads separate from the others, and when
the mill-boards were subsequently placed by the footlights for everybody
to see, the special ones would find their way behind the scenes, so that Mrs.
Baldwin might inspect them and commit to memory suitable answers.
I know a conjurer who is doing a " Somnomancy " entertainment (in
imitation of the Baldwins) with great success by means of this pad trick ;
butthe thing which makes the Baldwin exhibition so specially remarkable
is the skilful way in which they generally manage to give more information
than the written question conveys, and this, as I have explained, is managed
by boldly pumping the writer on the quiet, and then retailing for the edifica
tion and mystification of the entire audience the information thus gained.
Nut the least remarkable feature about the business is the fact that in
nearly every case of such pumping, the person pumped is as much surprised
as the rest of the audience when Mrs. Baldwin states the facta. This is,
no doubt, due to the fact that the assistant is not looked upon as part of
the trick. It did not seem to occur to people that if they told the
assistant, who politely came to receive their folded paper, that the lost watch
was marked with the initials "J.W." he could tell the "Professor," and
the " Professor " could tell Mrs. Baldwin. A friend of mine, a reporter,
who got hold of several of the people who had received most astonishing
answers, was much struck at finding that they had not only given to the
assistant all the information additional to that contained in the written
question, but that until closely questioned they had quite forgotten having
done so, through attaching no importance to it at the time.
It was often asserted in controversy that Mrs. Baldwin frequently
answered questions which had been privately written at home and which
were never produced from the writer's pocket until the answer was
announced at the public entertainment. Now Mr. and Mrs. Baldwin made a
large circle of acquaintances in the town, and in fact held little impromptu
receptions daily. I think that some of these " questions written at home " were
probably the outcome of these receptions, where preliminary confidences,
promptings, and pumpings doubtless occurred. Only on three occasions did
I see answers given to questions which had been written on private paper
before the entertainment. One was in the case of a lady, who had written
her question on her own note-paper at home, and she received an answer
—appropriate enough, but not open to verification for some years to come.
This lady had certainly attended Mrs. Baldwin's tea-parties, and like her
228 Frederic W. H. Myers.
husband (a press man), was one of her warmest admirers. It is quite pro
bable that Mrs. Baldwin knew enough of this lady's interests to guess
at the nature of the question ; in fact, it is not inconceivable that the
question had been privately propounded, and that Mrs. Baldwin had said :
" You had better write it in the usual way, as I can answer better when in
the trance this evening." The second case was that of a boy who wanted
to know whether he would become a chemist, his question being written,
on an old telegraph form. This may have been introduced by the mother
in Mrs. Baldwin's presence in the same manner as in the last case ; or
the boy may have taken one of the assistants into his confidence—for there
were hundreds of people who took Mrs. Baldwin quite seriously and made
every effort to get her advice upon subjects which they had close at heart.
The third case was that of a well-known Brighton clubman, who, sitting in
the front row obtained an answer to a question which he had pencilled
on his cuff. There could certainly be no confederacy here, but I do not
think it was by any means impossible for Baldwin himself or some of
the assistants to get a sight of this question during the excitement and
wild confusion which always prevailed throughout this portion of the enter
tainment. He was probably seen writing it. There were always plenty of
people at each entertainment carrying questions which had been previously
written, who received no replies ; I know, myself, of a good many such
cases amongst my own friends.
The whole business was most cleverly and successfully carried out
here ; but careful observers agreed that there was no good proof of
occult or psychic power, whilst, on the other hand, the proofs of conjuring
and trickery were abundant. GAS
I give next an account of my own of a recent sitting with Mr. Husk.
The record, taken from notes jotted down shortly after the sitting, has
been approved by "Mrs. C," who, as the holder of Mr. Husk's other
hand, was alone able to judge of its accuracy. It was also shown in
draft to two leading members of the group, who found nothing to con
tradict ; although one of them, I fancy, retains some kind of belief Ln
some of Mr. Husk's phenomena. I should add that all the members of
this group, who had been sitting for a long time with Mr. Husk, were
persons of position and intelligence ; and that " Mr. A." particularly is
an acute man of the world, and is himself the dread of impostors in a
quite different line of research which he has made especially his own.
I was recently told by a friend—whom I will call Mr. A.—that he had
had certain experiences with Mr. Husk,—notably the playing of fairy belis.
in the air,— which he was at a loss to explain. I reminded my friend of the
exposure narrated in Light for February 14th, 1891, under the heading "A
triple exposure of cheating mediums, Williams, Husk, Rita ; " where the
sudden flash of an electric pin disclosed Husk leaning over the table and
showing his own face as that of a spirit, illuminated by a card covered with
luminous paint. I reminded him also of an incident recounted in S.P.R.
Proceedings, Vol. III., p. 460, where a committee, including Mr. Crookee,
examined an iron ring which encircled Husk's arm, and was believed by his.
Resolute Credulity.
admirers to be too small to have been placed in that position by ordinary
means. The committee found that it was just not too small ;—and offered to
take it off again by ordinary means ;—guaranteeing the wearer against any
pain in the process by a few whiffs of chloroform. The offer was declined,
but the ring did not much longer figure as a standing miracle.
My friend replied that he held no brief for Husk's character, and that a
medium might be both fraudulent and genuine ; and since I agreed to this,
and had a real curiosity as to the powers which enabled Husk to maintain a
clientele in spite of the " record " above referred to, I consented to meet him
at the lodgings of Mr. B. in Eaton Terrace, S.W., only stipulating that
his hands were to be held by myself and Mrs. C, a lady whose powers of
observation I had reason to trust. This was agreed to, and a group of seven
persons awaited Mr. and Mrs. Husk in Mr. B.'s sitting-room. We were
to sit at a round table, and Mr. B. pointed out that if one sat just opposite
a leg, one could step on to the table without shaking it. From any other
point one would tilt up the table in a dangerous way.
Mr. and Mrs. Husk arrived, and Mr. Husk, left to choose his seat, sat
down just opposite the leg of the table. " Fairy bells " and various small
objects were then placed on the table, which they nearly covered, so that
they lay a few inches from each sitter's hands. The room was then very
completely darkened, and Husk offered his little fingers to Mrs. C. and
myself, in which to crook our own,—that method of hand-holding being
enjoined as least irksome. We linked hands all round in the same fashion.
Of course the only security which we thus gained was that Husk would not
actually walk away from us. His large hands were practically at liberty ;
and as he moved our hands freely about, as though with convulsive tremore,
our hold was not only no real check, but might even, as will be seen later,
become a positive advantage to him. He kept his arms well out from his
sides, and his body and legs at such a distance from us that without
deliberate effort, of a kind unlikely to be made by his ordinary sitters, no
contact was possible.
The first "phenomenon" was a general shaking of the room, which
ceased and began again at request, so as to show that it was not due to any
external cause. The value of such a phenomenon depends, of course, on
the ease with which any particular room can be shaken, and we found by
subsequent experiment that it is perfectly easy to shake Mr. B.'s room
(which is in a very ill-built house), by vigorous contractions of the muscles
of the thighs upon the chair. Of course, one can hardly keep one's hands
quite still meanwhile, but Husk's hands jerked about in such a way as to
conceal any tremor which might have been caused by muscular pushes on the
seat of his chair.
Spirit-voices then came;—that is to say, Husk leant first in one direction
and then in another, and uttered quasi-pleasantries for which I am glad not
to be obliged to hold any disembodied intelligence responsible. On one
occasion, for instance, I leant forward rather markedly over my hands on thoi
table, and Husk, who is a tall man and can move noiselessly, leant over and
behind me, and made some remark in a squeaky voice over my further
shoulder. It was so absolutely obvious how this was done that when " Uncle,"
or whatever the supposed spirit's name was, said, (from Husk's normal
230 Frederic W. H. Myers.
position, which he briskly regained,) " There ! I jumped over your shoulder
that time ! " it was hard to realise that a claim was made that the voice
had been separate from the medium's body. Some of the party, I learnt,
had taken a ventriloquist to decide whether these voices were due to
ventriloquilism or to spirits. He pronounced that neither hypothesis was
required. For the most part Husk leant well back behind Mrs. C. to
utter these voices, assuming, (although, as it happened, erroneously,) that
the lady was the less formidable of his two neighbours. He gave another
indication of this presently when more serious business began. Husk now
moved his hands more violently, raised ours from the table, and swung them
about in the air. Mrs. C, who held his right hand, extended her fingers to
discover what it was that he wished to touch. She found her hand brought
into contact with the back of his chair, so that his linked hand might have
hitched it into a position convenient for his next move. I managed to sidle a
little nearer to him on my side, and distinctly felt the movement of his thigh
and knee, aa he stepped on to his chair and then on to the table, with a corres
ponding strain on my little finger, which he now held high in air, and used to
steady himself in stepping upwards. This was so manifest that I immediately
said "Mr. Husk has stepped on to the table," to which Mrs. Husk replied,
" He has not stepped on to the table ; "—being, I suppose, aware in some
occult manner that he had been raised in some occult way. I then felt about
for Husk's chair, but that also had been lifted on to the table, probably by
his placing one foot through its back and hitching it up after him, when he
had placed one foot firmly on the table. We tried this afterwards, and Mr.
B. found that with a little practice it was not difficult, given the two hands
on each side by which to steady oneself in the process. The table was
low, and the chairs light. It is possible, however, that he drew up the
chair with his right hand, keeping it immediately beneath him, and away
from Mrs. C.1
After a minute or two we were told to light up, and saw Husk, still
holding our little fingers, sitting on the back of his chair, with his feet on
its seat, in the middle of the table,—a performance which was rendered quite
easy by the continued support of our hands.
He then descended, and the room was re-darkened. An attempt was
made by the spirits to get Mrs. Husk to sit next to the medium, but this we
declined, and Mrs. C. and I changed places, (Mrs. C. now taking Husk's
left hand with her right), so as to use fresh little-fingers, as the strain which
Husk had imposed on those members had made them almost insensible ;—a
result, by the way, which may have its value at times. We sat for a few
minutes, and the small objects on the table in front of Mr. Husk began to
move about. But almost at once the squeaky voice was heard, saying to
Mrs. C, "You're breaking the conditions !" "No," replied Mrs. C. with
truth, " I still hold my neighbour's finger, as I was told, to maintain the
chain." What Mrs. C. had in fact done was to bring her neighbour's hand
and her own left hand well on to the table, and near the objects, so that
when Husk put out his left-hand fingers to move the objects, he came in
contact with Mrs. C.'s left hand as well. There were no more move-
1 For a somewhat similar feat on the part of Mr. Eglinton, see Proeeedinai,
Vol. IX., p. 359.
Resolute Credulity.
ments, except the movement of thirty-live shillings into Mr. Husk's pocket
before he aud his wife went away. I cannot but think that there is still a
very fair opening for beginners in this trade.
The playing of the fairy bells did not occur,—but it seems only to occur
when Mrs. Husk, or some similarly devoted person, sits next to Husk. Two
hands being then free, Husk can easily stand on his chair and play (say)
with his right hand the instrument held up by Mrs. Husk with her left,
Tarring this by himself holding up the instrument and knocking it against
theceiling; a phenomenon observed, as I understand, only in low rooms. As
the whereabouts of the instrument is recognised by a piece of luminous
cardboard gummed on to it, it would, of course, be easy to enlarge its
apparent range of flight by brandishing a similar piece of luminous card
board at the end of a wire. But I must not demoralise Mr. Husk by
suggesting tricks of this kind. His actual powers are amply sufficient for all
that his sitters call upon him to perform.—F.W.H.M.
Mrs. Sidgwick, to whom I showed this account, produced for me
another record (undated) of a sitting with Husk, by the late Mr. S.
J. Davey ; interesting to me as showing in actual operation the little
artifice with luminous paper and musical box above suggested. Our
readers will remember that Mr. Davey's own skill in reproducing and
surpassing various "spiritualistic phenomena" by adroit conjuring led
many spiritualists to believe for a long time, in spite of Mr. Davey'a
disclaimers, that he was a powerful medium himself. See Proceedingt
S.P.R., VoL VIII., p. 253.
A few months ago my friend Munro and myself went to a seance given
by Messrs. Husk and Williams at 15, Southampton Row, for the benefit of
a certain Mr. Robson.
The room where the sitting was held being somewhat small, it was
decided the chairs should be placed as per diagram herewith.
Mantel-shelf
Williams "~" - -
( ( ) )
Table
°) )
r (° ) «)
-
A Husk
V
Piano
1
Window
Hands were supposed to be held all round.
232 Frederic W. H. Myers.
On taking our seats Munro selected that marked A, whilst I sat next to
him at B.
The lights being turned out the spirits rapped out that they objected
to Munro sitting at A, consequently he had to move over to C and I slipped,
into his former seat at A.
Whilst the others were loudly singing " Shall we gather at the river," I
put my head down close to the table, and in doing so I heard Husk say
something in an undertone across the table to Williams.
Immediately after this the raps proceeded from the neighbourhood of
Williams and reflected upon my adverse magnetism, and as the gentleman
next to me at G remarked that he felt very sick, I thought it prudent to
change my quarters and therefore went over to H.
I then found I had made a good exchange, for I noticed coming through
the door at L, a faint streak of light, and this I should never have seen had
I retained my seat at B.
The usual mountebank tricks were then played, such as the medium's
speaking through the paper trumpets, etc.
Aided by the streak of light I distinctly observed a form, which I have
little doubt was Husk, stalking about the room. Every time he crossed the
streak he was plainly visible, and every now and then he patted the sitters'
heads with the paper tube he carried in his hands. (N.B.—There was no
suggestion of a spirit moving about the room.)
Mr. Burns sat at F and it seems incredible he could not have seen this
as well as myself, for the figure was sometimes only a foot or two distant.
A large musical box commenced to play and was supposed to float over
the heads of the sitters. I discovered that the floating light supposed to be
the musical box was simply a small piece of luminous substance and that the
musical box was on the table most of the time. I should say that un
doubtedly either Mr. Husk or Mr. Williams employed the well known
fishing-rod apparatus to float the luminous substance about the room. I saw
what appeared to be a black cloud over the table in the neighbourhood of
the musical box, and it is possible that this was the stuff used to vary the
sounds by muffling the box. I also think that on one or two occasions the
musical box was really lifted off the table, a feat easily to be accomplished
by any one with the free use of their two hands.
Various "phenomena " tdok place, but none worthy of record. In fact,
most of the tricks were so badly worked that they were unworthy of the
name of conjuring.
S. J. Davey.
A good many unpublished M.S.S. of this type are by this time in
the possession of the S.P.R.; and there are (for instance) further
papers with regard to Messrs. Husk and Rita, which can be produced
should those gentlemen desire it.
For my part, although I had set aside some further detections to
quote, I am now weary of this uncongenial task. And I trust that in
London at any rate there is not now nearly so much of this kind of
thing going on as there was when the efforts of theS.P.R. began. Most
of the Harpies have fled from Phineus' banquet-hall ; have estab
Resolute Credulity. 233
lished elsewhere their dark rooms and their seance-tables— mmtatque
melu Hqttere priorea.
One final word,—addressed both to those who look askance on our
labours, and to those who fain would assist them. The case of our
psychological work, as compared with psychological work recognised as
orthodox, stands, if I mistake not, somewhat thus. Psychology is at last
becoming an experimental science ;—is even aspiring to become the
chief of sciences. At present, however, two groups work, with little
connection, at the two ends of Experimental Psychology. First come
the many new Professors and Lecturers in Germany, France, America,
and elsewhere who are making accurate experiments on everything in
man which they can manage to get at ;—the nervous system in general,
vision, audition, orientation, tactile sensibility, reaction-times, fatigue,
attention, memory, mental imagery,—with a host of cognate inquiries.
Much of this is delicate quantitative work, and is performed with
instruments of precision. The drawback is that such methods and such
apparatus are better adapted to give accuracy to facts already roughly
known than to carry the inquirer much farther into the depths of our
being. It is work preparatory to discovery, rather than discovery
itself.
At the other end of the range a group still small, although it
spreads yearly somewhat wider in each civilised land, is attacking
psychological problems of the highest importance, but which admit as
yet of only approximate and tentative methods of inquiry. This is
work of discovery indeed ; but it is rough pioneer's work—preparatory
also in its own way to the ultimate science to which we all aspire. And
for a new and complex task like this you must needs prepare In both
these ways. If men want to make a map of India they may begin by
accurate measurements of a small tract of populous plain ;—but at the
same time by attempting a first and half-conjectural survey of the un
sealed Himalayas. If you choose the former task as your own you can
progress without mistakes ; if the second, you needs must make many
mistakes, since no man who dares not be often baffled can reach the
secret of the snows.
It is our duty then to remember that we are no isolated hunters,
tut the scouts and avant-couriers of the scientific host. Our work, to
be of permanent value, must lie in the preparation of data for
organised science. However bizarre our facts may be, we must treat
them with as distinct a sense of responsibility to the ultimate judgment
of the learned world as though they were merely fresh facts of an old
type; as though, for instance, we were computing from scanty observa
tions the path of a new comet.
I disclaim altogether that spirit of exclusiveness which has some
times—almost grotesquely as it seems to me—been alleged against the
234 Frederic W. H. Myers.
group with which I work. I believe that in no way has our standard
been held too high ; and though we may thus have missed many
adherents, I believe that we have not lost one collaborator whose work
would have been of serious value. We need, of course, informants and
helpers in every country and in every position in life. 'We welcome
and respect every informant, be he Spiritualist or Agnostic, or an un
lettered rustic or a child of ten, who comes to us in that straightforward
temper which is as natural to child as to savant, because it is the temper
not of Science only, but of Conscience herself. On the other hand tht
hinderers of our cause—the " back-friends," as the old English term
would exactly name them—are merely such men as sciences of older
status than ours have long been able to rule out of court. Our foes
are the crank and the charlatan ; the intellectual parasite who exists
at second-hand ; the fanatic who ignores damning evidence and takes
fraud for marvel ; the self-seeker who would reserve from the common
fund of truth a peculinm or perquisite of his own.
But I would not speak as though men like these were growing in
number. On the contrary, it says much that we should even have
begun to dream of expelling them from a region so long the chosen
sanctuary of outlaws from the scientific camp. And the dominant
feeling, I venture to say, of all those who have taken an active part in
this movement is one of surprise and gratitude at the amount of
generous and competent help which we have received from men and
women previously unknown to us ;—at the rapid extension of those
habits of thought and action which our research requires. For my own
part, such share as I have taken in the work would have been manifestly
impossible without the help literally of hundreds of careful, intelligent,
disinterested correspondents. Such contributions, indeed, have formed
so integral a part of all that I have published that I have rarely been
able to speak of the contributors as I would, lest I should seem to
bespeak favour for myself also. Personal matters, however, are of
little moment in a quest like ours. Res enim humani generis agitur,
non nostra ; and it is not for the sake of one group, or of one age, that
we may desire that the helpers of our work shall be many, and the
hinderers few.
Telepathic Dream* Experimentally Induced. 235
IV.
TELEPATHIC DREAMS EXPERIMENTALLY INDUCED.
By Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
[Dr. Ermacora, of Padua, is already known to readers of these
Proceedings by an experiment numbered M. 41 and printed in the
Proceedings, Vol. IX., p. 68. Since the publication of that case Dr.
Ermacora, in conjunction with Dr. Finzi of Milan, has become the
Editor of the Rivista di Studi rsichici.—Ed.]
Introduction.
During part of the months of September and October, 1892, I had
left Padua and was at Milan, in order to be present at some experi
ments which were being made there with the aid of the well-known
medium, Eusapia Paladino. I was obliged in consequence to interrupt
the psychical experiments which I had for some time been making in
Padua with Signa Maria Manzini, who possesses automatic powers of
various kinds, both motor and sensory, with occasional indications of
supernormal faculty, shown especially in her susceptibility to telepathy
and, more doubtfully, in her apparent power of foreseeing the future
and of producing physical phenomena. Her motor automatism takes
the form of writing in the waking state ; and the form of speech
and mimicry with changes of personality in special conditions of
somnambulism ; her sensory automatism consists in auditory hallucina
tions of articulate and occasionally of musical sounds, and visual
hallucinations, fully developed only during somnambulism. All these
phenomena, whether motor or sensory, are not the result of suggestion,
in the common acceptation of the word, but are connected with the
assumption of the existence of certain mediumistic personalities, which
assert, without however having been able as yet to adduce sufficiently
convincing proofs of it, that they are the disembodied spirits of human
beings.
Shortly after my departure for Milan, there came to live with
Signa Maria her little cousin Angelina Cavazzoni, of Venice. Angelina
was born on July 16th, 1888. Thus, during the experiments here
recounted, and in which this child played so important a part, her age
varied from 4 years and 3 months to 4 years and 10 months.
Although the experiments which I shall describe have not yet
reached the point I could have wished to attain before publishing
236 Dr. J. B. Ermacora.
them, still I think them worthy of note, both because I have not yet
seen a systematic series of researches in this direction published, and
because I believe that some of the results already obtained are of
sufficient importance to arrest the attention of modern psychical
researchers, and to encourage them to further investigations in this
direction.
Origin of the Experiments.
While I was at Milan, I received from Signa Maria a letter dated
September 23rd, of which I give a part. I ought first, however, to
mention that the name JMvira refers to a mediumistic personality
which habitually manifests itself through the automatism of Signa Maria.
It has the characteristics of a child, and professes the greatest affection
for Signa Maria. Here is a part of the letter :—
. . . . Yesterday Angelina arrived and slept with me. Last night I
was sleepless and crying The child was, I am sure, wide awake.
and all at once I saw her put out her hands as if to catch something. I said to
her, " Be quiet and go to sleep." Then she said, " Do you not see, Aunt/'
.(Angelina calls Signa Maria aunt, although really she is her cousin, but not of
the same generation) " that beautiful child?" I looked at the pictures in
the room,1 for at that particular moment I was not thinking of spirits. And
she added, " Are you deaf ; don't you hear her speaking 1 And she says t"
me that you should not weep, hut that you should sleep." Then I bethought
myself of the little Elvira, and I asked Angelina, " How is she dressed 1 "
She replied, " She has a beautiful blue pinafore, Aunt ; make one like it for
me to-morrow." Then nothing more passed. But this morning, the first
thing for which she asked me, before I had spoken to her, was the pinafore
like that of the little girl. It may be nothing, but to-day I shall try to make
her write (automatically),2 and shall watch whether she hears herself
spoken to.
This incident was quite sufficient to lead one to suppose a probable
susceptibility in Angelina to telepathic perception, for the blue
garment and the eagerness to comfort Signa Maria in her sad moments
were precisely the characteristics of the mediumistic personality Elvira,
whom Signa Maria saw in dreams and in somnambulism, and with
whom she communicated in automatic writing. Moreover, Angelina,
who had only arrived that day, had no knowledge of the experiments
of Signa Maria, nor did she ever hear of them later on. Sign" Maria is
not in the habit of speaking of them to others, and has never men
tioned them even to her mother, her sole companion, with whom she
lives in perfect harmony.
1 Signorina Maria explained to me afterwards, that at first she thought that
Angelina alluded to one of the pictures of women in the room. The light was
burning.
5 Angelina showed no particular aptitude either for automatic writing or for
hallucinatory audition.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 237
The following extract is from another letter of Signa Maria's, dated
September 26th :—
On Saturday night (Sept. 24th) I dreamt that Elvira brought Adrian*1
to me as usual. Angelina says she saw her in the night, but she cannot
explain herself as well as the first time ; she says that she also sees her
own mother, and she asks incessantly for an apron like that of the
child,1 so much so that I was obliged to make her one with some stuff I
had ; but she does not care for it, because, she aays, it is not " like the
other. "
It will be understood that Adriatic is a personality of the same kind
as Elvira. He showed at this period a childish character, and Elvira
calls him her brother.
The visual hallucination of her own mother was not new to Angelina,
for a similar thing had happened to her at the end of July of the same
year, 1892, when, shortly after the death of her mother, she had come
to spend some days at Padua with Signa Maria. But in this case it is
uncertain whether it was a hallucination or simply a dream, for
Angelina only spoke of it in the morning.
In a letter dated September 28th, Signa Maria wrote to me as
follows :—
The little Elvira comes seldom. Angelina said yesterday morning that
she had seen her (in a dream), and she drives me mad because she wants to
go with the child ; she says she cannot go because she has not got a pinafore
like hers.
In another letter dated October 2nd, Sig,la Maria tells me that on
September 24th, when she was receiving communications from Elvira
by means of automatic writing, she asked her, " Was it really you who
showed yourself to Angelina?" To which Elvira replied, " Yes, it was
I, because I like the child."
Although frequently communications of this kind are rather irrele
vant and characterised by the incoherence of ordinary dreams, yet in
this instance, the personality Elvira having already shown a certain
coherence, and, moreover, some signs of supernormal activity,2 I felt
justified in hoping that on my return to Padua I should perhaps be
able to evoke, with the co-operation of the child and of Elvira, pheno
mena of the nature already described, but more distinct, and under
more conclusive conditions.
1 Angelina never knew even afterwards that this child seen by her in sleep, or in
hypnagogic hallucinations, was already known to us, and bore the name of Elvira,
and she always alluded to her as the "blue child." This proves that Angelina had
not been in the least degree influenced by anything she had heard.
! I speak purposely in vague terms, and shall continue to do so, so as to leave
unprejudiced the question,—in my opinion yet unsolved,—whether Elvira and the other
analogous personalities which manifest themselves by means of Signorina Maria are
creations of her subliminal consciousness, or possess independent individualities.
U
238 Dr. 0. B. Ermacora.
Part I.
Preliminary Experiments.
On October 18th, 1892, I returned to Padua, and on the same
evening I recommenced experimenting with Sig"" Maria with auto
matic writing.
The personality Elvira manifested itself and at once asked after
Angelina, and, without being questioned, told us that with her help
and that of Adriano she hoped to be able to show us something fi-ne
soon. She said, however, that we must not ask her for explanations
now, because " Adriano, who will be the principal author of all,
does not wish to give us other explanations," and she " fears to
spoil everything by disobeying him." Afterwards, however—so far,
at least, as I could judge—the personality Adriano did not seem
to be concerned in any interesting fact connected with the little
Angelina.
But before proceeding further, I wish to justify what might be
condemned by some as an error in the system of exposition which I
have adopted.
The idea still exists amongst many people that in psychical phe
nomena there are only two things worthy of note—( 1 ) the definite result
of the phenomenon expressed in terms which do not involve ideas as to
the nature of the process, and (2) the subject considered from a physio
logical or pathological point of view. This mode of procedure
resembles that of a person who, wishing to study a clock, considers
only the movement of the hands and the outside case, leaving out the
mechanism on which that movement depends. Now, the motor
mechanism of every psychical phenomenon is naturally the personality
which produces it, and therefore this should be studied with the
greatest care,—as well as the subject,—not only in the case (supposing
it to be possible) when the acting personality is extraneous to the
subject, but also when it is merely a psychical isomer of the normal
personality of the subject himself; for in both cases,—as we are treating
of conscious and volitional acts,—if we neglect to study the personality
which knowingly and willingly acts, we neglect the study of the true
mechanism of the phenomenon.
Many experimenters, while maintaining a correspondence with
these acting personalities, feel some repugnance to mentioning their
relations to them, or do not do so frankly, except when they are of the
officially recognised type of somnambulic personalities. This seems to
me an unwarrantable suppression of facts ; accordingly, I feel bound
to follow quite an opposite method, although it may be distasteful to
some readers.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 239
Naturally I shall condense the communications somewhat, modify
ing them where the style or personal considerations may make it
necessary, without of course altering the sense so far as the present
argument is concerned.
To return to the experiments.
Experiment 1.—On the evening of October 19th, I put myself as
usual in communication with Elvira. Sign* Maria and I were alone
with Angelina, who appeared to be sleeping profoundly. As I was
thinking more of the vague promise of experiments with Angelina
which Elvira had made the evening before than of my own plans, I
first asked Elvira whether she would be able to try something with the
child this evening, and whether we ought to wake her. She replied (in
automatic writing) that Adriano was again absent and therefore she
could do nothing, and that when she was coming with him, she would
warn us. But, as I have already remarked, nothing interesting ever
occurred to Angelina with the apparent assistance of Adriano.
Then I asked Elvira if she could appear to Angelina, as she said
she had done on the night of September 22nd to 23rd. She replied :—
" Certainly I can, but the child must be sleeping, and if I can I
will appear to her in a dream. You must ask her afterwards what she
has seen, and so discover whether I have succeeded."
Question. " But why do you doubt your power to make her see you
in a dream, if you have already been able to show yourself to her when
awake ? "
Aiuwer. " Yes, that is a reasonable question ; but you must know
that on that evening, seeing Maria very unhappy, I made a great effort,
which can only be made for a person extraordinarily dear, and so I
succeeded. However, I will try this evening in a dream ; moreover the
child will see me, when she is awake, when I come with Adriano."
Q. " How must we try 1 Will you show yourself to Angelina after
Maria has been sent to sleep, or before ? "
A. "I warn you first that this is not a proper evening to send Maria
to sleep. I will appear to Angelina in the form of a child with a beauti
ful doll in my arms, and if I can I will come in another colour " (i.e.,
not dressed in her favourite blue).
Q. " Then we are to experiment at once ? "
A. " Yes ; I wish to try at once, but mind you ask the child what
she has seen. I may very likely be dressed in pink, and if I succeed I
shall be content. I warn you that I shall not communicate again this
evening, and so I wish you good evening, but remember that if I fail it
is not my fault, not being accustomed to do this. If Adriano were
here he would certainly succeed."
O 2
240 Dr. 0. B. Ermacora.
Naturally these communications were read in silence, and no word
was spoken about the doll and the pink dress, lest Angelina should be
influenced, although asleep. Not knowing when the supposed action
of Elvira would end, I thought it better to wait till the child had been
questioned the next morning.
The evening of the following day (October 20th) Signa Maria told
me that by means of persistent, but not suggestive, questions she had
been able to elicit from Angelina that she had dreamt of Elvira with
a doll in her arms, but she was dressed in blue and not in pink as had
been settled. In order to make sure that the child was not making a
mistake as to the name of the colour, Signa Maria showed her various
patterns of coloured stuffs from which to choose the colour she meant,
and she chose the blue.
So the dream was not in complete accordance with the programme,
and, what is more important, the conditions under which it occurred
were not conclusive ; because the child slept with Signa Maria, and it
is possible that the latter while asleep may have suggested the dream
to Angelina verbally.
In the next communication from Elvira (by automatic writing,
October 21st), she justified the partial failure in her own way, saying
that "she had not had time to make another colour" (i.e., different
from the usual one). She did not seem disposed to repeat the experi
ment that evening.
On October 22nd Elvira (in automatic writing) told us that not
even the next night would it be possible to act. Nevertheless, next
day, Signa Maria told me that in the morning the child had told her
spontaneously that she had again dreamt of Elvira with the doll in
her arms, but that this time she had on a pink dress. Thus the dream
proposed on October 19th was completely realised on the night of the
21st-22nd ; but this seems not in harmony with the hypothesis that
the dreams were really called forth by the personality Elvira, since she
had said she could not act. Asked for an explanation, she gave it (in
automatic writing) in the following terms :—
" Yesterday evening Angelina took her doll to bed, and therefore
dreamt that she saw me, but I assure you it was not the case, but all
the effect of fancy. I have already told you many times when we
really originated the dreams, and I am sincere and tell you the truth
when they are the effect of fancy. So I think there is no need for so
many doubts, because I am the first to warn you what dreams are true
and what imaginary."
Although the communication may only have been an excuse
invented on the spur of the moment, still I must note that on the
evening of October 21st, when I asked Elvira why in the preceding
dream she had not appeared to Angelina in the pink dress, Angelina
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 241
was present,1 and it is likely that on the night of the 22nd, at the
moment of falling asleep, the idea of the doll at hand may have been
associated with the idea of Elvira dressed in pink and with a doll in
her arms, and may have produced the dream.
It will be seen that in the course of the experiments the explana
tions given by Elvira proved trustworthy, at least as far as they
concerned things accessible to her intelligence and verifiable by ours.
Seeing some probability of success, I wished at once to try the
experiments under better conditions, determining to exercise stricter
control by degrees as success followed on the less rigorous. So all I
did at first was to have Angelina put to sleep alone in a little room
close to that in which Sign* Maria and her mother slept. The two
rooms communicate by the landing of the staircase on which their
doors open.
Experiment 2.—October 2ith. Evening.—I found Sign* Maria in
bed with a bad headache, an ailment to which she has been subject
from infancy. I put her into the somnambulic state to cure it by
suggestion. I took this opportunity to evoke a communication from
Elvira, who manifested to Signa Maria through a sensory hallucination.*
She proposed to cause Angelina to dream of her dressed in pink,
with a white parasol in one hand, and a fan, also white, in the other,
and with bare feet, according to her custom.
After waking Signa Maria (whose somnambulism is always followed
by amnesia), I forgot to warn her that Angelina would probably have
some dream in the night, and that she must question her in the
morning. Leaving Bigna Maria's room, I found her mother issuing from
the next room, where she had just put Angelina to bed ; the child had
already been asleep for some time on the ground-floor, so that she
could not have heard Sigm Maria's voice when she related to me the
dream planned by Elvira.
October 2oth.—In the evening, when I went to Signa Maria's house,
she told me that Angelina kept saying to her all day that she wanted a
1 This does not contradict what I said at first about the child's ignorance of the
nature of these experiments, for at an age when a child does not know what writing
ia, it is unlikely to know what automatic writing is, and the little one could not
suspect the presence of any personality other than our normal selves from my
behaviour.
! Neither during Signorina Maria's somnambulism nor in other conditions does
mT suggestion alone suffice to evoke the personality Elvira. I do not exclude
the possibility of producing in the trance a hallucination of the presence of Elvira,
just as I could produce the hallucinatory presence of a real person ; but probably in
this case the Elvira so suggested would not be coherent with the other. I deduce
this from the fact that Elvira often flatly denies strong convictions of Signorina
Maria's with regard to her ; hence I infer that she would equally repudiate the falsa
Elvira suggested by me.
242 Dr. 0. B. Ermacora.
white parasol and a white fan. Signa Maria did not guess the origin of
the child's wish. The latter had not told her of the dream, nor did
Signa Maria, who was not aware of the experiment, think of question
ing her. She assured me that after my departure on the evening before
she did not move from her own bed, nor in any way communicate with
the child during the night. Siga Annetta, who slept with her
daughter, confirmed this.
These conditions, however, were far from being conclusive, both
because Angelina's desire for a white parasol and a white fan was not
sufficient to prove that the dream predicted by Elvira took place, and
because the possibility of verbal suggestion during the night on the
part of Signa Maria, to whom Elvira might have returned in the trance
state, was not excluded. I say Elvira might have returned, because
not only does Elvira in motor manifestation1 leave no traces in
the somnambulic memory (much less in the normal memory) of
Signa Maria ; but, as I discovered later, the period of somnambulism
during which Elvira manifests sensorially2 to Signa Maria, although it
differs in no other point from her ordinary somnambulism, is followed
by amnesia directly Elvira's sensorial manifestation ceases, although
the somnambulic state remains apparently unaltered.3 Consequently
the spontaneous appearance of the normal somnambulism does not
suffice to recall the ideas expressed by Elvira while manifesting sen
sorially in a previous somnambulistic state of Signa Maria. Therefore
if the somnambulism and the personality of Elvira happen to present
themselves when Signa Maria's mother is asleep, the former might
possibly go to the child's room and act on her by verbal suggestion.
Although during several years of hypnotic experiment I have only
observed two or three cases of spontaneous somnambulism in Signa
Maria, it will be better to keep its possible occurrence in mind,
because we continued our experiments in this way for some time before
introducing stricter conditions. On the other hand, there is no need to
exaggerate this danger, or to make the gratuitous hypothesis that it
would be easy to produce a series of exact and complicated dreams, like
those I shall relate, by mere verbal suggestion, in a person who had never
been hypnotised. In any case, when precautions were taken later on,
the dreams occurred in spite of them.
Experiment 3.—On the same evening (October 25th), wishing to
advance a step, I asked Elvira if it would be possible to make
Angelina dream according to a programme pre-arranged. She replied
1 That is, when Signorina Maria speaks as Elvira.—El1.
2 That is, through a sensory hallucination.—En.
* Sometimes the moment of the internal change is marked by a slight sigh or &
yawn.
Telepathic Urewms Experimentally Induced. 243
(by automatic writing) that it could be done, or that at least she hoped
50. I then proposed that Angelina should dream of Elvira with a light
in one hand and a cross in the other.
Answer. " The light if you like, but not the cross : choose some
thing else."
I proposed Signs Maria's portrait instead of the cross. Elvira
accepted the idea of a portrait, but preferred that of Angelina's mother,
recently dead. Kind feeling on Elvira's part, no doubt, prompted this
suggestion as it had prompted the rejection of the cross. For when
asked if she had rejected it on account of a religious scruple, she
replied, " Not at all ; only it would have made too strong an impression
on the child."
October 26<A.—Signa Maria told me that she had not seen Angelina
again the evening before, after I had proposed the dream and departed.
The child was then in her room and asleep, and Signa Maria went at
once to bed in her mother's room.
Directly Angelina awoke in the morning, she came to Signa Maria's
bed, and the latter, after waiting to see if the child would relate a
dream, followed my instructions, and tried to draw her attention to a
light. No effect. She then talked to her of a box Angelina knows,
which has the picture of a little girl on its lid. Upon which Angelina
said she had seen the blue child in a dream, and added that this time
she had no parasol or fan, but a light in one hand, and a portrait
(unrecognised) in the other, and was dressed in white. The non-
recognition of the portrait is interesting, for it begins to make us sec
that the perception probably takes place by means of sensorial images,
and not by any process of direct ideation independent of these images.
It is a point of great importance in the present experiments, because it
is the first indication that the child is directly impressed by the images
of the things represented in the dream, and not by verbal suggestion.
October 27th.—Sig^ Maria told me that last night Angelina had
dreamed of Elvira with a book and a candlestick in her hands. As no
dream had been arranged the evening before, this counts as a failure.
It is instructive, however, as showing, as did that of October 22nd-23rd,
the child's tendency to spontaneous reproduction of dreams on the
same theme. I had no time to ask Elvira, as I did on the 23rd, if
this dream had been induced by her.
Experiment 4.—I wished to assure myself of the success of this simple
type of dreams, and proposed that this night Elvira should appear in a
dream with a violin in one hand and a bottle in the other. When
asked if she would find this easy, she replied (by automatic writing),
" Yes, it is very easy for me, but you must ask the child directly she
.wakes, or she may forget and make a mistake."
244 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
Asked if she required time for her action, or if she produced the
dreams instantaneously, she answered :—
" Oh, no, indeed ; I must have at least ten minutes."
Elvira appears to appreciate time with sufficient exactness.1
October 28lh. Evening.—Complete failure. The child had been
indisposed, and had slept in Signa Maria's bed. She had not dreamed.
I asked Elvira the reason of this. She replied, through motor som
nambulism, that it had been impossible to act, on account of the child's
disturbed sleep. Signa Maria had been obliged to wake her often, thus
interrupting Elvira's action. Sign* Maria confirmed this when she
woke.
Experiment 5.—During the trance, and while Elvira was present,
I asked her to make Angelina dream as follows : she was to be at
Venice in a two-oared gondola with Signa Maria and me, and go to the
Lido. Elvira justly observed that the child on waking would not be
able to explain the object of our excursion, and that, therefore, to make
sure of the place she must be made to see the horses, the baths, and
the sea with its waves, Elvira making the sound " vuuh " to imitate
the noise of the waves.
When Elvira was gone, I did not mention the proposed dream to
Signa Maria either in her trance or in her normal state after waking,
in order that she might remain ignorant of it in both conditions. It
is needless to say that Angelina on the ground floor had heard nothing.
When I left, some time after Signa Maria had woke, I saw Angelina
already in bed and asleep.
October 29th.—I found Signa Maria in bed and indisposed this
evening. She told me she had gone to bed directly after I left, with
out seeing the child ; said that Angelina had risen at seven a.m., and
come to her room about eight, but when questioned had said she had
not dreamed. When Sig1"i Maria got up, about 9.30, the child asked
for a story, and on being told that Signa Maria did not know any,
said, " Then I will tell you one, only I have forgotten—that little
girl has told me so many pretty ones ! " Sign" Maria asked, " What
little girl 1 " " The one I know, the one who always comes. She was
dressed in blue, and we were in a boat with two oars, and we went to
the Gardens. There were lots of horses, and the sea said ' vuuh ! ' "
(imitating the sound which Elvira had produced motorially the evening
before). " We played on the grass, and she ran more than I did ; she
told me so many stories, but I have forgotten them." She made no
mention of other persons being in the boat, and, as only Elvira and not
Maria knew the programme, she, of course, could not question the
child on the point.
I have experimented on this subject with other secondary personalities.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 245
The following night, as I had proposed no dream, Angelina's mind
was free, and she told the last dream again on the next day, adding
that in those gardens (the Lido) there was also a tramway, anil that
the blue child had made her ride, and had then told her stories to
prevent her being frightened.1
It is to be observed that the word " vuuh " by which Elvira
imitated the roar of the sea before the dream, and Angelina after it,
is commonly, and one may say almost inevitably, used by any one who
wishes to imitate this sound.
[In this case, as in others], the dreams do not always follow the
programme with exactitude. The points of identity are, however,
such as to begin to produce a conviction that they cannot be mere
chance coincidences. It must be remembered that at first Elvira did
not understand the aim of these experiments, and, as she herself after
wards told me, she omitted some things as of no importance, and added
others to make the dream prettier. When this was clear to me, I asked
Elvira to aim first of all at precision, upon which the successes sensibly
improved. This again demonstrates the necessity of considering the
active personality, as otherwise its idiosyncrasies may be taken for
general laws.
October 30lh.—Signa Maria was again ill in bed. She told me that
to-day Angelina had asked her to make a frock and buy a pair of
shoes for the blue child, who must be cold in her blue chemise and
with bare feet. I mention this to show that the child's dreams were
vivid enough for her to confound them with reality.
Dreams of Various Objects.
Experiment 6.—October 3lsl, 1892.—Elvira manifested in the
trance motorially, and promised to make another dream experiment that
night. Seeing that I could not think of a subject, she proposed as
follows. She would take the child to Venice and show her the regatta
from the Rialto ; red will win.
I wished again to study the manner in which imitative sounds are
perceived (see dream of October 28th-29th), so I told Elvira that I
wished the child to hear thefru-fru which the prows of the boats
make in cutting the water, and I asked her to make the sound so that
I might know what characteristic it acquired when reproduced by
Signa Maria, in the character of Elvira. She emitted the prolonged
sound ff,jf, which is really a better imitation of the real sound.
To my question whether she needed a longer time to act to produce
a dream apparently long, she replied, " One or two minutes longer. We
can produce dreams which seem to you to last for hours in a short time."
' As Venetian children are not Used to horsea, they are generally afraid of them.
246 Dr. 0. B. Ermacora.
I left Siglla Maria ignorant of all that had happened during her
trance.
November 1st.—I wished to hear this dream directly from Angelina,
.who was usually sleeping or dozing in the evening, so I called on
Jgigna Maria during the day. As she knew nothing, she had not
questioned Angelina, who had said nothing spontaneously. But as she
was shy, instead of telling me anything she began to cry. I therefore
left her, asking Signa Maria, who was still in ignorance, to question her
patiently. When I went back in the evening, Signa Maria told me all
she had been able to extract from the child. She had thought last
night that she was at Venice on the Hiva del Vino, close to the
Rialto, in the company of the usual blue child. The small steamboats
for passenger service had stopped running, and the boats were not
about as usual. Instead there were some boats which went very fast,
rowed by men dressed in different colours. The water dividing before
their prows made the sound gro, gro. The boat in front carried two
men dressed in red. Elvira and Angelina fanned themselves with a
large fan.
This time the child made use of an imitative sound unlike Elvira's;
gjgna Maria said she could not reproduce it, as Angelina accompanied
it by a breathing, which, however, did not make it the more resembleff.
We have also in this case a slight variation, for the point of view was the
Riva del Vino and not the Rialto ; and the fan was an addition. But
these particulars are chiefly of use to weaken the hypothesis that the
dream was produced by a verbal suggestion from the personality of
Elvira.
This evening Elvira refused to make Angelina dream,1 saying that
she would be occupied elsewhere.2
1 It may be worth noting that ou this night Angelina had a dream which was
possibly of telepathic origin, but which took place without any voluntary actios on
the part of Signorina Maria and apparently without the agency of the Elvira
personality. The following are Dr. Ermacora's notes of the incident :.—" November
2nd, 1892.—Maria tells me that last night (November 1—2) Angelina—who should
not have been influenced by Elvira—dreamt that she was in a room where there was
a table in the middle, a piano, a buffet having no cupboard with glass doors above
it, and a sofa. Several persons were there, including Signorina Maria and Dr.
Ermacora." He states that this description exactly fits a room to which he used to
go with Signorina Maria and other persons to carry on experiments, except that
there was a small harmonium instead of a piano in it. There was reason to think
that Angelina had never heard of this place. Dr. Ermacora observes that if the
dream was telepathic, it was the only case of the kind that occurred during the course
of these experiments spontaneously and without the action of Elvira.—Ed.
2 Even those who do not admit the possibility of the independence of a secondary
or mediumistic intelligence must take count of this form of expression, although they
often a priori consider it meaningless. We must remember that nothing is meaning
less, and to say a thing has no meaning simply implies that as yet it has none for us.
In this case, the phrase "Elvira occupied elsewhere" may be supposed to mean the
activity personifying itself as Elvira operating telepathieally elsewhere.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 247
Experiment 7.—November 2nd.—I asked Elvira if she would
induce a dream this night. She answered (automatic script), " We
have always succeeded till now ; we will try again this evening."
I had arranged the dream beforehand. I proposed that Elvira,
dressed in red and with a large straw hat on, should accompany
Angelina to the Piazza San Marco at Venice, and should find it
turned into a garden with grass and many flowers. The campanile
should have vanished, and there should be a very large tree in its
place. Many children, dressed in white, should be running and
playing with young goats. A peasant on the great tree should saw
off a branch, and Angelina should heaf the saw make the sound zin-zin.
It will be seen that this experiment was again arranged in order
to discover if the child had a direct perception of images in the
dreams, or if they were replaced by words. The programme was too
complicated. But Professor William James, of Cambridge University,
U.S., had honoured me by his presence, and I was so imprudent as to
venture among difficulties not yet overcome, with the hope of showing
him a more interesting result, forgetting that any small disturbance,
such as the introduction of a stranger, has a tendency to diminish, or
even entirely prevent, success.
When I asked Elvira if she hoped to succeed, in spite of the
unusual complexity of the dream, she answered (by automatic
writing), " It is rather long. It is possible for me, but I don't know
if the child will remember all that. However, we will try."
Question. " Could you not induce dreams with persons better able
to remember and relate them 1 "
Answer. " But. you see, it answers so well with her that if you will
have patience you will succeed. I am not certain, but still I think
that the one at Venice (Angelina's sister) would answer the purpose
as well."
It is quite natural that I should be dissatisfied at having for a
subject a child of an age which prevented her lending intelligent
assistance, and who was shy with me, which prevented my studying
her closely. Therefore I tried occasionally to propose a different
percipient to Elvira ; but my efforts were vain, and it is easy to
suppose that it would be difficult to find a person who was a good
percipient in rapport with Elvira, and who could besides be made use
of as a subject of study. Then we must consider that the child's
innocence offered me opportunities of making interesting observations
which might have been impossible with an adult.
November 3rd.—When I called on Signa Maria in the morning the
child had not yet told her anything, and she had not thought of
questioning her. This showed Sig1ni Maria's want of interest, which
was rather an advantage than not, as it prevented her curiosity or
248 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
untimely zeal from disturbing the results. And though she had no-
initiative, she was careful and punctual in executing my instruc
tions. She and I questioned the child together, but her replies were
vague and often contradictory. She seemed only ' to remember that
she had been in the company of Elvira, who was dressed in red, in a
place surrounded by a wall where there was grass, and many little
girls dressed in various colours, who were playing with toys. She did
not appear to have recognised the Piazza S. Marco ; on the contrary,
she said the wall was smooth and that there were no shops ; she had
not even had the impression that the scene was in Venice. This can
not be called more than a partial success ; but it is worth observing
that if the dream had been produced by verbal suggestion, the words
Piazza San Marco must have been used, and would have aroused the
corresponding idea clearly in the child.
The partial failure was, as I understood later, no doubt partly
caused by our having made Angelina relate her dream in my presence,
which disturbed her ; she appeared so uncertain, contradictory, and
suggestible that I soon learned to place most faith in the second-hand
accounts of Sig,la Maria or her mother.
Experiment 8. — November 4th. — Elvira manifested motorially
during Sign" Maria's trance, after having manifested sensorially as usual.
When questioned as to the preceding incomplete success, she replied
that she had evoked the pre-arranged dream exactly, but that the child
had not remembered it. I proposed the following dream for the next
night :—.
Elvira would come to Angelina, accompanied by the latter's dead
mother, who would bring her a pretty blue hood. Elvira asked that
the dream should be modified, not wishing to cause too great an
impression on the child through her mother's presence, and proposed
to substitute a greatraunt, who was just then at Milan. She thought
the dream simple and easy to induce, and again recommended that the
child should be questioned directly she woke.
November 5th.—Signor Carlo Vanzetti and Dr. E. T. (who are
interested in psychical phenomena) and myself, called on Sig1n1 Maria
about 2.30 p.m. I had forgotten to repeat Elvira's advice to Sign*
Maria the preceding evening, and the latter had not questioned the
child. So we interrogated her ourselves. Fortunately she was in an
expansive humour, and told us that the blue child had come to see her
with the great-aunt from Milan, who had a blue hood, but she could
not explain if it was on her head or in her hand, and contradicted
herself. There were many ribbons on the hood, as well as the plaits o£
Angelina's hair, which had been cut off. She did not know if her aunt,
meant it for a present to her. She added that the blue child w&s
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 249
not really dressed in blue, but in white. I only mention this unim
portant point, which was outside the programme, to remark afresh
now much the effect of these dreams on the child resembles that of
real waking events ; thus Maria told us that to-day Angelina had
wanted to wear her white frock, to he like Elvira.
We put ourselves in rapport with Elvira, and asked her why the aunt
had not given the hood to Angelina as pre-arranged. Elvira replied
(by automatic writing), " No ; her aunt put it down and I took it up to
show it to her (Angelina)." This may be true, and the child may have
forgotten it. It was a mistake on my part not to ask for an explana
tion about the locks of hair, which were not in the programme ; all
the more that they had some connection with the aunt. Bign* Maria told
us that this aunt had been much vexed when Angelina's hair was cut
off after her mother's death, because there was no one to arrange it.
Experiment 9.—The child was sent away, and Signor Vanzetti
proposed the following dream to Elvira. She should appear in
company with Signa Maria's mother, who should present Angelina
with a large cake, which she should open. A little bird should come
out and fly away, laughing.
November 6th.—I went to see Signa Maria about 2.30 p.m., and
found Signor Vanzetti already there. We had arranged that he should
eall to see if the attempt were a success or not. The child was present
and had already told her dream as follows :—The blue child had come
to her with Sig1ni Maria's mother 1 who brought her a cake. From a
hole in the cake came out (Angelina failed to find the word).
Vanzetti. "A mouse?" Angelina. " No." V. "A cat?" A. "No."
V. "Then it must have been a dog." A. " Yes." V. " Was it like a
hen?" A. "No; like a pigeon, but smaller."
This dialogue shows that the child probably saw a small bird, but
it also shows how easy it is to lead her astray by suggestive or even
non-suggestive questions made by persons who do not possess her full
confidence.
We sent her away and placed ourselves in communication with
Elvira, who manifested through automatic writing, and then in the
trance sensorially, and at last motorially.
1 1 cannot say with certaintythat the success was complete, as regards the presence
of Signora. Annetta in the dream, for Dr. E.T.,whom I met in the course of the day, said
be did not remember the introduction of Signorina M. 's mother into the programme.
I am obliged to report this circumstance, but I find the point recorded in my notes of
the 5th, or at most of the 6th November ; and besides the arbitrary introduction of
another person into the dream would have caused me to question Elvira about it, or
atleast I should have made notes after the success; and I find I did neither the one
tot the other. As Signor C. Vanzetti had left at once, I could not trust entirely to
las memory. The point besides is of little importance.
250 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
Experiment 10.—Signor Vanzetti proposed the following dream :—
While the child was aware of being in her own bed, Elvira should come
and kiss her forehead, then put her hands underneath her body and
carry her to her father in Venice. Then she should bring her back to
her own bed.
November 7th.—Doctor E. T. and I visited Signa Maria, who was
ignorant of the dream, which had been planned while she was in the
trance. However she had followed her instructions and questioned the
child in the morning ; but the latter would tell nothing, and had said
she was bored by always dreaming of Elvira. She was sufficiently
docile to relate her dream to us, notwithstanding. She said that last
night the blue child came to her and kissed her on the chin. She took
her to Venice in a carriage drawn by a horse, went with her to her
father, who kissed her on her forehead, and then flew home with her
through the air.
As we see, the variations from the programme are not great. The
following day (November 8th) I asked Elvira, " Did you make the
slight changes in the dream of the 6th-7th, or did she forget ? " She
replied (by automatic writing), " No ; you know it is I who make
these little changes. I do not think there is any harm, but if so tell
me, and I will not do it any more." I naturally recommended exact
ness, and the results seemed to me to improve.
November 8th.—No dream had been pre-arranged, and Angelina
had a spontaneous one, which is not odd. But it is curious that,
though she was used to pleasant dreams, this night she dreamt of a.
man with horns, in whom she believed she recognised the devil ; and
she remarked that she would rather see the blue child again than
dream such things. So that this dream would seem to have been a.
reaction, either spontaneous or imposed from outside, against the
protests she had made against the too persistent dreams about
Elvira.
Experiment 11.—While Elvira manifested in automatic writing, I
proposed a dream which it is useless to relate, because it was a
complete failure, in spite of Elvira's acceptance of it.
Experiment 12.—November 9th.—I proposed the following dream
for the next night :—Angelina, with Sigl^ Maria, would be at the-
window of her own room, and would look towards the river. A
lamb would be grazing on the bank. A boat loaded with apples would
pass, conducted by one boatman. He would stop close to the iroa
bridge, and get out to drink at the inn. While the boat was.
unguarded the lamb would jump in and begin to eat the apples, whicl*
would make Angelina laugh very much.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 251
I will explain my aim with regard to the detail of the inn. [It
exemplifies a method of control which] has the advantage of passing
entirely unperceived by the personalities to which it is applied, or at
least by their supraliminal selves. This consists in introducing into
the programme of the dream some idea which, when perceived
sensorially and objectively, would produce a different effect on the
subject than if it had been expressed verbally ; or in introducing
sensorial images, which, with regard to the percipient, should not
be in perfect correspondence with his verbal images. It is evident
that if the dream were originated by verbal suggestion, the
percipient, in most cases, will mention even the circumstances which he
has not seen, or will describe his experience in proper terms ; while,
on the other hand, if the scene were perceived by means of direct
images of the things, we must expect that he will be ignorant of every
accessory circumstance mentioned in the programme, but not present
in the scene ; he will form mistaken judgments about the things,
perceived, and will give them inappropriate names. The dream of the
Piazza S. Marco transformed into a garden is a good example of this.
(November 2rvl-3rd, 1892). Thus, in the present case, if Signa Maria
suggests the dream verbally to Angelina, it is improbable that she will
omit the particular about the inn, and it is besides probable that the
child, knowing the reason for the boatman's absence, will have some
sensorial image of it, and will mention it in her account. Whereas if
she perceives the scene directly, she will see the boatman go away, but
will not be able to say why or where—the inn not being visible from
the window at which she will be.
Angelina was in bed and asleep, with the door shut, while I
explained this programme to Elvira. When I left I asked Siga
Annetta1 to take care that her daughter and the child should not meet
daring the night, and as she and Angelina generally wake before Signa
Maria, I asked her to get the child to relate her dream before
Sign" Maria awoke, or at least before they met.
This intervention of Siga Annetta was of great advantage, although
it did not do away with the inconvenience of my getting the story at
second-hand. It allowed of the child being questioned by a person
who was not only ignorant of what dreams were expected, but who
also did not know what interest Angelina's dreams could have for me,
and who did not trouble herself about it. She could not, therefore,
alter them by involuntary suggestion. I may add that she fulfilled my
1 It is well to keep in mind that during the communications with Elvira, only
Signorioa Maria and I were present, except in the few cases always mentioned,when I
went withsome person not of Signorina Maria's family. Signora Annetta wasunaware
of the existence of the Elvira personality, and of that of others resembling her, and
Angelina knows Elvira only through her dreams.
252 Dr. 0. B. Ermacora.
.charge with so much patience that the child ended by being unwilling
to tell her dreams to anybody else.
November 10th.—About 4 p.m. I called to discover the results. I
saw Siga Annetta first, and she was convinced that no communica
tion had been possible between the child and Signa Maria till the
morning. Angelina told her the dream before Signa Maria was awake.
It is useless to repeat it, as it corresponds almost exactly to the pro
gramme. I say almost, because there are two points of difference
which are precisely what render the result most interesting. One is
that Angelina called the animal which ate the apples a " light-coloured
dog," instead of a "lamb." Now the child, being a Venetian, had not
seen any lambs, and when she saw one, she naturally baptised it in her
own fashion. The other point of difference is that she did not say
where the boatman had gone, and, when questioned on the point on
my arrival, she could not explain it, though she remembered the dream
perfectly. According to what was said above, these two particulars
favour the hypothesis that the child sees the scene, instead of simply
hearing it described.
Experiment 13.—The usual communication with Elvira having
been established, she declared herself ready for a fresh experiment the
following night.
I read the programme I had written down a few moments before:—
Angelina is in the Piazza dei Signori (Padua) with Siga Annetta. It
snows, and the Piazza is white. Angelina is amused at the sight, but
stops suddenly to look with astonishment at a spot in front of the
Caffe' Mio, where the snow is black instead of white, because just before
Angelina's arrival a man had passed with a sack of coal dust ; the sa^k
had burst and the coal d%ist was spilt on the snow. I underline the
last words in order to emphasise the fact that they relate to a circum
stance extraneous to the dream, and are designed to put the form of
perception to the proof. While I was reading the programme in the
usual room on the first floor, the child was playing outside the street
door with other little girls, and could have heard nothing.
November Wth. Evening.—Siga Annetta assured me that neither
last evening after I left nor during the night had her daughter and
the child had any communication relating to the dream ; they had
never been out of her sight. The evening before they had all gone
together to call on another son of Sig* Annetta's, who is married
and does not live with them. There Angelina fell asleep, and was
carried home, and put to bed in her own room by Sigi Annetta.
without having awoke. Signa Maria and her mother slept together as
usual. The child told her dream to Sig Annetta in the morning
before Signa Maria was awake. The account was as follows :
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 253
Angelina had been in the Piazza dei Signori with Siga Annetta.
There was much hail on the ground, and outside the Caffe Tuo (as
the child was accustomed to call it) the ground was black like coal.
Sig"a Maria in her turn told me that she had gone out later with the
child, who, passing through the Piazza before-mentioned, related the
story over again, repeating that the ground had been white with hail.
Sig01 Maria asked her if the white stuff might not have been snow, to
which the child replied, " No ! what is snow? It was hail ; the ground
was white, but near the Caffe Tuo it was black instead—all coal ;
and I ran on the white. It was such fun." She wanted to accompany
Sig0* Maria to the side of the Piazza, where she had seen the coal ; and
to explain better, showed her the black colour which formed the back
ground of the glass windows, and said that at that part of the ground it
was blacker even than that. I at first thought it odd that the child
should call the white stuff on the ground hail. But later Sign" Maria
discovered that the child had never seen snow. This ambiguity about
a name could not have happened under better conditions for excluding
the hypothesis of verbal suggestion, because, as Signa Maria could not
know that the child called snow hail, she would naturally have used the
term snow, which would not have been understood by Angelina, and
therefore would not have produced the image of the whiteness on the
ground.
Experiment 14.—November 12th. Evening.—I went to see Signa
Maria, with the programme of the next dream ready written. During
the communication with Elvira (by automatic writing) I read this
programme to Maria, word for word: "Angelina is with me in the
church of S. Marco at Venice. Elvira, dressed in pink and with a
white handkerchief round her head, comes to meet us, and all three go
to the Riva degli Schiavoni, and go into a tent, where we are shown a
fine tiger."
As I saw that the results, if telepathically produced, were
becoming more and more important, I desired to increase the rigour of
the conditions. I therefore asked Siga Annetta to lock the child's
room directly she was asleep, to hide the key, to unlock the room in
the morning, and to induce Angelina to relate the dream before any
communication with Sig"a Maria was possible.
November 13<A. Evening.—Siga Annetta told me that Angelina
was already asleep when I left last evening. She found her daughter
in bed, and followed her, tying the key round her neck. She herself
woke with the key still tied round her neck, and when the child called
she ran to open the door. Angelina at once, while Sign Maria still
slept, told the following dream :—She was with me at Venice in the
church of S. Marco. A little girl entered dressed in pink, with a
x
254 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
white handkerchief on her head. We all went together to a little
house, where there was an animal like a cat, but larger, and not really
a cat.
Here, again, the visual, and not the verbal, image of a tiger was
probably perceived. i We have besides the circumstance that Elvira
was seen, because Angelina mentioned the pre-arranged details of the
pink dress and white handkerchief, but she was not recognised. [These
points, again, tell against the hypothesis that] the dream was induced
by verbal suggestion.
Experiment 15. —While Elvira was manifesting sensorially she, in
reply to my questions, caused Maria in the trance, to tell me she could
make the child see in dreams even things unknown to Signa Maria, but
known to herself and to me.
I wished to try the experiment at once, and proposed that she
should make Angelina see the interior of a house I had examined a
short time ago, and which was entirely unknown to Signa Maria, being
in a village some kilometres from Padua, where she had never been.
Elvira had said on a previous occasion that she knew this house ; thus
her proposed conditions were realised. Our programme was that
Angelina should find herself in this house with her little sister.
Signor C, who lived there, would give them sweetmeats, and would
either show them over the house or round the neighbourhood of it.
November 14<A. 3 p.m.—-Siga Annetta was alone in the house.
She told me that from the moment I left on the previous evening she
had taken the same precautions as on the night before, including the
locking up of Angelina. Directly the child awoke she related the
following dream :—
Enrichetta (her little sister) had taken her to a garden where there
was much grass, and in the midst a large house. They played, and an
old gentleman gave them two boxes of sweetmeats and took them in to
see the house, which was large, and neither pretty nor ugly.
Although all this is correct, I cannot consider the dream a success,
so far as the representation of a place unknown to Signa Maria is
concerned, because the description is too indefinite.
Experiment 16.—November 1bth.—I was at Signa Maria's house at
2 p.m. Elvira said she hoped to show the child places unknown both
to Signa Maria and me, but known to herself. As T could not invent
a dream of this kind on the spot (up to the present time I have not
seen one such realised), I proposed the following which I had prepared
in writing for the day before :—
" Angelina will still be in the country house of the preceding
dream, and will be eating boiled potatoes with Professor B. Then 1
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 255
shall come and bring her some Indian figs. (As Elvira said she did not
know what Indian figs were, I substituted common figs.) Afterwards
I shall take her and Professor B. to see the neighbourhood ; I shall tell
Angelina to be very fond of me, and to let herself be sent to sleep
by me."
This programme had among other aims : ( 1 ) To refresh the vision
of the surroundings of the house, which should furnish characteristic
points for recognition, if the representation should prove exact ; (J)
. to see if a sufficiently exact visual perception of a person wholly
unknown to Angelina, but known to 8igna Maria (as is Professor B.),
is possible ; and (3) having used visual images exclusively until now, to
see if auditory images would be perceived equally well, and if verbal
images could lle used for making suggestions ; as, if that were the case,
they could tie utilised to forward our present researches.
The most simple method of proving the telepathic origin of these
dreams would naturally be to ask Elvira to induce a certain dream in
the child on the spot ; then, when Elvira had given us notice that her
own action was completed, to wake the little one and make her recount
the dream. But in this way we should have encountered two
difficulties. The first is, that Elvira says she can only act when the
child is in deep and tranquil sleep, which does not easily happen in the
evening ; the second is that to wake her would put her out of temper,
so that it would be difficult to get any coherent account from her.
Being thus doubtful of results, I put off this experiment till the time
when I should have succeeded in putting her into the somnambulic
state, when I could control her sleep and her temper. This is why I
wished Elvira's suggestion to come to my aid. However, up to the
present time my efforts have been unsuccessful, and I have been
satisfied with the proofs which I have succeeded in obtaining later, so
that I dropped this method for the time being, always intending to try
it again when circumstances were propitious.
November 1§th, 2 p.m.—I found only Signa Maria and the child at
home. Angelina told me as follows :—She had dreamed of being in
a large house in the country, but could not explain if it was the same
she had seen in the preceding dream. She was with a handsome, tall,
and rather stout gentleman, with beautiful long moustaches. Then I
arrived and brought her some figs which she found sweet. I told her
to be good, and to let me put her to sleep. Questioned about the
neighbourhood of the house, she could say nothing to prove that she
had seen it as it really is. Besides which, she did not remember
eating with the gentleman before I came.
I took out of my pocket 17 photographs which I had prepared.
That of Professor B. was among them. The others also were portraits
of men of middle-age, and offered a certain resemblance to him ; such a
x 2
256 Dr. G. B. Ermaeora.
resemblance as would make it difficult for an adult, and impossible for
a child, to distinguish that of Professor B. from the others, after a
mere verbal description.
I promised the child some sweetmeat if she could find her dream
gentleman among the 17 portraits. Meantime I watched Signa Maria,
to see if she influenced Angelina by any unconscious sign. The latter
seemed very tired, or perhaps confused by the novelty of the thing,
and could not decide. I stopped her when I found she was looking
about, instead of at the photographs.
Meanwhile Sign Annetta had returned and I instructed her to
induce the child to 3earch for the portrait when her daughter was not
present, lest the latter should unconsciously influence her. Siga Annetta
herself could not influence the results, for she does not know Professor
B., and is also ignorant that the gentleman Angelina saw in her dream
is so named.
When I returned in the evening, Sig1 Annetta assured me that
her daughter had not seen the photographs since I left, and that the
child had made her choice while Signa Maria was out of the house.
She then showed me two photographs that the child had selected,
adding that she had preferred one of the two. Now, the portrait
preferred as most resembling the gentleman in the dream is precisely
that of Professor B., and the other is sufficiently like to be taken for
his portrait, even by an adult who had only glanced at the original.
The resemblance fails in one point. Professor B.'s moustaches are very
long, and those in the second photograph are rather short.
I should add that the choice was made among 27 portraits1 instead
of 17 ; I added 10 more when I left.
Experiment 17.—I read the programme I had prepared for the
coming night to Elvira this same evening.
Angelina is at Desenzano upon the lake of Garda with Elvira and
me. I am dressed in white linen and have a straw hat. Elvira has a
red dress and a wreath of blue flowers. We look for a boat to take
us to Sirmione, but cannot find one. Then we go the whole way on
foot. When we reach Sirmione, Elvira and I recommend Angelina to
remember the dreams well and to relate them with exactness.
This programme had a special aim. Some time ago Elvira had said
she knew the lake of Garda and its neighbourhood. I also know them a
little, while Signa Maria and Angelina have never been there. There
fore, I wished the dream to give Elvira a new opportunity to show the
1 Dr. Ermaeora has sent me all the photographs in question for comparison. I
concur in what he says as to the difficulty of recognising any one outof them by verbal
description.—Ed.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 257
child in a dream something known to us, and unknown to Signa Maria
and the percipient.
November X7th.—About 4 p.m. I called on Sigoa Maria. I was
told that Angelina had not had any dream, and that she had been
rather restless during the night.1
Experiment 18.—Elvira communicated in automatic writing. I
asked her if she could try the same dream again the next night, and if
she would like me to repeat it. She replied, "Yes, if I can make her
dream, I will. You need not repeat it ; I know it quite well."
A result which I had aimed at from the beginning, because it would
have offered me a most simple and certain proof of the telepathic origin
of these dreams, was their realisation at a distance which would have
made any communication between Maria and Angelina impossible.
This wish had remained unfulfilled. Such experiments were [for various
reasons] not easy, and I accordingly deferred trying the plan till I had
exhausted the easier methods of control.
Just then Angelina's father desired to see her and keep her at
home for a few days. Signil Maria was to take her, and as Angelina's
father had not room for her also, she would be obliged to pass the night
at a distance from the child. This was a propitious circumstance, and
I decided to go to Venice on the same day as Sign* Maria, November
18th.
November 18th.— I went to Venice and met Sign* Maria about noon.
She had arrived an hour sooner than I. She told me that her mother
had unlocked Angelina's room that morning and found her already
awake. Sign" Maria entered the room while Angelina was telling the
dream to Siga Annetta, and thus it was she who related it to me.
Angelina had dreamt she was in the country with me and the
blue child. I was dressed in white, and my hands were very much
larger than was natural. Elvira had blue flowers on her head. We
all went to look for a boat, but not being able to find one, I went on
foot, while Angelina and the blue child were transported through
space. Angelina, when she awoke, thought she was still in the air.
In reply to Sign" Maria's questions she replied that there were many
houses and banks like those in the Gardens, but larger.2 She did not
remember the colour of Elvira's dress, nor what hat I wore, but when
closely questioned said that the dress was red ; she would not admit
that my hat was of straw, but said it was of soft brown felt, like my
1 As Angelina's little room was next to that occupied by Signorina Maria and her
mother, they could easily hear if she woke, because she became alarmed at finding
herself alone, and called to them.
1 Angelina has never been in a hilly country, so she could only express the idea of
mountains by amplifying that of the banks or hills of the public garden at Venice.
258 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
usual one. She did not remember that Elvira and I had said anything
to her. She added that there was a great deal of water, but that it
seemed less than in the lagoon at Venice.
The dream was therefore successful in its general outlines, but
there was no point in it which did not probably pre-exist in the mind
of Signa Maria.
Experiment 19.—In the evening I called on Sig'la Maria and tried
to communicate with Elvira. But instead of Elvira, Adriano mani
fested in automatic writing. Does the non-appearance of Elvira, con
sidered from the point of view that these personalities are mere
dramatisations of more complex subliminal phenomena,1 signify a
refusal to attempt the experiment 1 This is the interpretation which
suddenly occurred to me as the most natural one, but Adriano
explained that he was sent by Elvira, who was much vexed at not
being able to come. In the end I told Adriano the programme.
November 19<A.—Towards midday Signa Maria and I went to the
home of Angelina, who could barely remember that she had dreamt
of the blue child and nothing more. The failure is complete, because
Elvira did not figure in the programme I had communicated to Adriano
overnight. Later, in another place, I questioned Elvira about the
cause of the failure. She replied in automatic writing, and attributed
it to the too light and agitated sleep of the child.
Experiment 20.—I proposed to Elvira to try again, and gave her
another programme for the following night. Naturally I took care
that Signa Maria and Angelina should meet no more that evening.
November 20th.—I went in the morning with Signa Maria to see
the child, who told us she had had two dreams, neither of which had
the least connection with my programme. '
I had here another opportunity of remarking how easy it was, by
means of suggestive questions, to make Angelina relate any story I
wished. However, to-day she was particularly pre-oecupied with the
return to Padua,—not because she regretted it, but because she feared
her cousin would go without her. This pre-occupation, which drove
the dream from her mind, no doubt augmented her suggestibility, or
rather her inclination to give heedless answers in order to put an end
to a subject that did not interest her. This susceptibility, however,
1 This hypothesis does not affect the utility of the study of these personalities, upon
which I have insisted from the first. On the contrary, it is clear that if they are
nothing more than the translation into supraliminal terms of subliminal operations
inaccessible to our intelligence, they would constitute the real keys which yield
access to the study of the transcendental man. To neglect studying them would be
like the neglect of the study of hieroglyphics by a person who wished to penetrate the
mysteries of ancienf Egypt.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 259
by no means weakens the telepathic interpretation of the successful
cases. In the various cases concerning which I myself interrogated
her, I certainly could not mistake my suggestions for her dreams.
When Sign" Maria questioned the child, I could trust to her good
sense and to her exactness in following my indications, which was
also evidenced by the care she showed in bringing forward the
points of discrepancy. But in the greater number of cases, and
those the most interesting, the child related the dream to 8igt
Annetta, who knew absolutely nothing of the programme fixed.
On the evening of the same day (November 20th) we had all
returned to Padua. By no means discouraged at the negative result
of this little telepathic expedition, I called on Sig" Maria again in the
evening. Elvira manifested in automatic writing, [and—after explain
ing that the child's susceptibility to her influence had l«.-en disturbed
by the presence of strangers—said finally,] " I warn you there will be
no dream to-night, because the child is too excited with her journey ;
another night perhaps ; to-night I can promise nothing."
November 21st.—[No dream proposed.]
Experiment 21.—November 23rd.—I proposed the following dream
for the next night:—Angelina was to be among the hills with a peasant
of the mountains, who had a basket on her back. They were to climb
a rough path, and Angelina would be tired. Then the peasant would
put her in the basket and carry her. This peasant was to be Angelina's
grandmother, who was then at Milan. I chose a mountainous scene
ou purpose, because the child had never seen one, and thus we should
be able to discover traces of verbal suggestion or of direct perception.
It was still day when I left, so the experiment was not protected
by the usual blockade.1
November 24<A, 4 p.m.—Signa Maria told nlfe that the dream had
taken place with precision. Angelina had told her that her grand
mother at Milan looked ugly dressed up like that with a handkerchief
on her head. The basket in which she had been carried was like those
used at Venice for carrying coals.
It is evident that Angelina perceived the scene with more details
than were mentioned in my programme, as she saw her grandmother's
headkerchief as it is worn by our mountaineers. It is not rare to see,
Wh at Venice aud Padua, mountaineers with basket and kerchief.
However, as we have seen, the waking Angelina associates the basket
with the coal vendors of Venice, instead of with women with kerchiefs
on their heads.2
1 1 mean by thia word any precaution taken to prevent normal communication
brtween the subjects.
- My notes taken at the time do not make it clear that the child saw the mountain
scenery. But I believe I remember that she spoke of a fatiguing path and many stones.
260 Dr. 0. B. Ermacora.
Experiment 22.—The dream I proposed for the next night need not
be stated, as it did not take place, possibly for the following reasons.
gjgna Maria's father, who was old and ill, was at this time in
Venice. On the evening of this day, November 24th, she received
notice that he was very ill, and she and her mother decided to go to
Venice next day. During the night Signa Maria dreamt that she
saw her father, as thin as a skeleton, as she had never seen him in life,
rise slowly from his bed into the air. She woke suddenly with the im
pression that he was dead and found (she does not remember how) that
it was a little past 4 in the morning. The child also woke just then,
and said that now it would be useless to go to Venice, for that her
grandfather was already chad.
When they arrived at Venice they heard, in fact, that he had died
shortly after 4 a.m. Signa Maria's grief prevented my attempting to
procure other information about the case. However, a short time after
she told me that she had heard from those about him that he had
become exceptionally thin, as the dream had shown him.
For other reasons the dream experiments were interrupted for some
days. In the meantime, on the nights of November 28th, 29th, and
30th, the child, who slept alone in her little room, awoke frightened
about 4.15 or 4.30, saying that she felt the bed shake, and heard
scratching on the floor mat. It is curious that this should have
happened at the particular hour of Maria's dream.
During this period I busied myself, without success, in preparing
the ground for the production of dreams under my direct control. I
tried to habituate the child to the hypnotic sleep, but I only succeeded
once, and the one success was followed by several failures ; her want of
attention makes her at present a bad hypnotic subject. [I also failed
to persuade Elvira to help me in inducing sleep in the child.]
Experiment 23.—December 1Sth.—Evening. I proposed the follow
ing dream to Elvira, who manifested in automatic writing :—Angelina
was to be in a box at the theatre with Signa Maria and Signor G. M.
(who is known to Signa Maria and also to the Elvira personality,
but is entirely unknown to the child). The spectacle was to be an
equestrian circus, and Angelina was to be particularly pleased with a
little white ass (somarello).
This dream had two aims. As Angelina had never been in a box
at the theatre, this might give occasion for some discrepancy between
the visual images perceived and the terms which she might use in
her account ; thus the hypothesis of verbal suggestion would be put
to the proof. Further, I wished to repeat the experiment of the
recognition of the portrait of an unknown person seen for the first
time in a dream.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 26I
Before I left, and before Signa Maria had seen the child, the latter
was locked into her room, and I asked Siga Anne.tta to hide the key
instead of tying it round her neck, so that Elvira, if she should
possibly manifest motorially during the night, should be unable to get
possession of it and proceed to make verbal suggestions. (I have said
that Sig-i Annetta and her daughter slept in the same bed.)
December 19th.—4 p.m. Signa Maria was in bed with a headache.
Sig" Annetta (as usual ignorant of the programme) told me the dream
which Angelina had related to her that morning ; it had nothing in
common with the programme.
Experiment 24.—As I did not think it probable that the sus
pected verbal suggestion (which I judge to be impossible without
the trance) could take place in spite of Siga Annetta's vigilance
during the day, I charged the latter to renew the nightly blockade
and bide the key, in the hope that the dream would occur on the
succeeding night.
No communication with Elvira to-day.
December '20th, 4 p.m.—Sign" Maria was better, and I found her up.
This night the dream had taken place, and the child had related it in
the morning to Siga Annetta, whom she had seen before anybody else,
and then to Signa Maria and the latter's brother.
She had thought she was in the theatre, in a tiny room which had
no windows towards the street, but which had them towards the
inside of the theatre. Signa Maria was there too, and also a very tall
gentleman with a fair moustache. There were only a few people in
the middle of the theatre, but running horses instead. There was
besides an animal, a little donkey, white and small, which she liked so
much that she wished to have it at home.
I caused the child to tell me the story over again, and again
I proved how easy it was to make her alter her story by suggestion.
Naturally this detracts nothing from the value of the first spontaneous
account made to people who knew nothing of the programme.
It must be noticed that in this dream the verbal image box was
entirely excluded, while Angelina translated the visual image into
words with childlike ingenuousness, which favours the hypothesis of
direct perception. The child did not recognise the portrait of Signor
Gl. M, which I gave to her among twenty others, and which she had
first looked for in the presence of Sign- Annetta and her daughter-in-
law, and then before me and Signa Maria ; on the contrary, on the
latter occasion she put it aside without hesitation.
From time to time as the child told her story she turned towards
Signa Maria for approbation, as if she were convinced that Signa Maria
262 Dr. G. B. Ermacora,
*
had been present at the scene ; and this shows how easily she confounds
her dreams with reality.1
I trust that the successive nocturnal blockades, although separated
by the intervening day, need not be put down as inefficacious, since
Signa Maria was in bed all day, and Sigi Annetta assured me that the
-child only once entered her room for a few moments. Signa Maria
assured me also that on account of the intense pain she suffered, she
only exchanged a few words with the child, and that no allusion was
made to the dream.
Experiment 25.—I proposed the following dream to Elvira for the
next night:—Angelina is in a boat on the neighbouring canal with
Siga Annetta and me. I am not rowing, but the boat is drawn by a
pair of swans, and I am seated at the prow guiding them with reins.
The other two are seated behind me. We go up the canal as far as
the astronomical observatory.
When I went away, I left the twenty portraits, including that of
Signor G. M., with Siga Annetta, to see if the child would recognise
him when she was left in quiet. Siga Annetta watched her all the
evening, then locked her into her room and hid the key.
December 2lst, 4 p.m.—The first thing I heard when I entered the
house was that Angelina had recognised the portrait of Signor G. M.
Siga Annetta assured me she had found it when alone with her (she
herself does not know Signor G. M., and did not know which portrait
was to be looked for). Angelina justified her first failure by explain
ing that that gentleman at the theatre was smiling, and that in the
portrait he was very serious.2
Angelina told me that she had dreamed last night that there was
a boat in the neighbouring canal and that I was in it. She could give
me no other particulars, not even if she had also been in the boat : but
when I re-visited Signa Maria in the evening she, upon being questioned,
assured me that when Angelina told her dream in the morning, she
had said spontaneously that she was in the boat with me.
This success is evidently very incomplete, but it cannot be regarded
as a chance coincidence if we consider it as a whole.
Experiment 26.—I asked Elvira if she was aware of people, places,
actions, or other things unknown to Signa Maria, out of which I could
1 I believe myself in a position to reject as an absurdity the hypothesis that the
child's story is a comedy taught her by Signorina Maria, and that consequently she
turns ingenuously to the latter for suggestions ; and it is besides disproved by the
later successes under stricter conditions.
s This photograph also has been sent to me by Dr. Ermacora.—Ed.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 263
make dreams for Angelina. She replied, " Yes ; I will even tell you
the dream for tonight, but I will only tell you this evening."
I accepted the proposal, stipulating that I might add something
myself, to make sure that the nocturnal blockade should not be frus
trated by a previous communication with Angelina.
Ia the evening I asked Elvira for her programme, and she replied
in automatic writing :—." I think it would be fine to make Angelina
dream that she was on the Lake of Garda with me, but then I will
make her see things which no traveller sees, but which exist notwith
standing, I assure you. Now tell me what you want to add to it." I
accepted Elvira's programme, requesting as addition only that the
water of the lake should be as white as milk. Elvira replied, " I must
make her see everything under water, but I can easily make it the
colour you want.:'
When I left I saw Angelina already asleep on the ground floor. I
made the usual recommendations to Siga Annetta, though I knew there
was no need.
December 2'2nd, 4.30 p.m.—Angelina told me she had dreamt as
follows :—She was with the blue child, who was dressed like a boy, in
trousers, with a large hat on her head. They went to a very large
mm!, without bridges, and with trees on its banks. At first they
walked on the water without bathing themselves in it, and then they
went under it. There Angelina saw many broken houses, of which she
could distinguish the doors and windows ; there was also a church,
broken too, but not so much as the houses. She also heard bells ring,
but without seeing either bells or bell-tower. Then they both came
out quite dry, and the blue child kissed her, and said, " I am going to
Paradise, and you must take care to remember the dream." The water
was the colour of water and anise.
Sign* Maria and Siga Annetta assured me that the dream had been
told the same way in the morning, and first, as usual, to Siga Annetta,
when her daughter was not present. The night before, Angelina had
been put to bed directly I left by Siga Annetta, who allowed no com
munication with her daughter, and locked the door and hid the key.
A dream like this did not, of course, represent things unknown to
Sign" ilaria and known to others, because the existence of ruins under
the Lake of Garda is not demonstrated nor demonstrable. There is a
legend to that effect, but Signa Maria may have once known and
forgotten it. When she was asked if she had read anything about the
Lake of Garda, she replied in the negative, and told me that her scanty
reading consisted chiefly of translations from French novels, in which
the Champs Elysees, etc., and not the Lake of Garda, played a part.
But such a declaration is, of course, insufficient to prove that she
might not in some way have heard the legend, and this is rendered
264 Dr. 0. B. Ermacora.
more probable by a discovery I made later, that when, in the case
of Maria, a conscious idea has been telepathically transferred, it
acquires in consequence a tendency to pass out of the field of conscious
memory.
It is to be noted that Angelina showed from her description that
she had really seen a lake, but she called it a very large canal with
trees on its banks ; simply because the idea of a canal was familiar to
her. Besides, the water was seen of a milky white colour, but this
perception was not associated with the colour of milk, but with the
colour of aniseed and water. This is another fact unfavourable to the
idea of verbal suggestion.
Experiment 27.—When Elvira manifested in automatic writing, she
first asked me :—" Are you pleased with the child's dream 1 Tell me
the truth." I replied :—"The dream was amusing to her, but of very
little use to me, because it was about things which I cannot possibly
verify."
Answer. " Leave me to show her something that Maria cannot
possibly have seen. I see that the child understands me and remembers
quite well what I say to her. I will tell her in her dream the name of
the city, and the name of the exact point she has seen."
I thought it best to accept the proposal, though it was not what I
was aiming at, but I asked Elvira to show Angelina a little cart,
with a small barrel in it, drawn by a large dog. Elvira accepted the
addition.
Experiment 28.—December 23f-C?.— 4 p.m. Angelina had had no
dream the preceding night, or at least when she woke she did not
remember it. I was told that she had been restless, probably from
worms, and this would account for the failure.
Elvira said instead that the dream had not taken place because she
had been unable to come, and promised to act the next night.
December 2ith.—4 p.m. Signa Maria told me that Angelina had
related the following dream that morning :—
She was with the blue child in a place full of stones ; there were
very large horses with long thin necks, and some had one hump, and
some two. The men wore white cloaks. The road was all up and
down hill. She saw a great stone with many holes, and a little cart
drawn by a large dog, with a barrel full of wine which was trickling
out. The blue child had told her at the end of the dream that this
place was Cario (i.e., Cairo). I called the child and made her give an.
account, which coincided almost perfectly with that of Sig^ Maria.
She only left out some small details which she afterwards added in.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 265
reply to my non-suggestive questions. She added that the men were
not all in white cloaks,—some had jackets ; they had also white hats
(turbans ? )
Siga Annetta, who, as usual, had heard the child's story directly
she woke, confirmed all this.
In this case also the ideas might have been easily drawn from the
mind of Sign" Maria, who might have acquired them from illustrated
books, pictures, or more likely panoramas, and the control, of course,
was not perfectly rigorous. Angelina described the camels as large
horses with long thin necks and one or two humps. Such a description
renders it probable that she really saw them without knowing what
they were. I could not understand what the child meant to describe
in talking of the large stone with holes.1
Experiment 29.—In the evening I visited Signa Maria again, and,
putting myself into communication with Elvira, I proposed a dream of
aerial ascension for the same night ; but first, of course, I asked her if
she knew anything about it. Elvira replied (automatic script), " Yes,
we can try that too; I am not used to it, but I know a little, however."
I then explained my dream : Angelina should be with me and with
the servant who lived at her own home in Venice, in the enclosure of
the Prat© della Valle (in Padua). We should all get into the car of a
balloon and ascend from the middle of the enclosure, descending at
Venice, on the Rialto bridge. The balloon was to be green.
December 25th. Evening.—Siga Annetta told me that, when I left
the evening before, Angelina was already asleep, and that her daughter
had gone to bed directly after without seeing the child. Siga Annetta
had put the latter to bed without waking her, had locked her into her
room and hidden the key. In the morning the child told her dream
before seeing Sign* Maria. Her story was as follows :—
She seemed to be with me and the servant from Venice in the Prato
ikl\a Yatte, where there was a great ball, the colour of salad, furnished
with many ropes. We all went up into the air and descended at
Venice upon the Rialto bridge.
Afterwards Signa Maria told me that in the morning, as soon as she
saw the child, the latter had told her the same story, with the difference
that she had said " the colour of grass " instead of the colour of salad ;
and she had added that we had climbed in by the cords.
It should be remarked again that the expressions " colour of grass,
colour of salad," bear witness for the direct impression of colour
rather than for verbal impression ; but I need not insist upon this
1 About nine months later I asked Elvira for an explanation of this. She replied
that Angelina had meant to describe certain Egyptian houses.
266 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
further in cases of complete success with the blockade, especially as it
will be seen that my methods became more and more stringent.
Experiment 30.—I then proposed to Elvira to carry out a dream she
had proposed on December 20th—viz., to make Angelina dream that
she was at sea and sea-sick in a storm, and that she heard the orders
of the captain. She accepted the unexpected proposition. The aim of
this dream was, as I have said, to discover if it were possible to induce
in the child emotions and sensations hitherto entirely unknown to her.
I asked Elvira, " Do you know enough of nautical matters, or must I
help you 1 "
Answer. " No, don't tell me anything ; I know a little."
To obtain a proof that the dream was a result of impressions
received that night, and in no way prepared beforehand, I asked Elvira
to add a red flag, with a green cross in the middle, to the boat.
December 26th.—Signor C. Vanzetti and I called on Signa Maria
about 3 p.m. Signa Maria was present, but not Angelina, when
Siga Annetta assured us that she had applied the blockade rigorously
the preceding night, so that Signa Maria could not possibly have
communicated with Angelina, whose door had been locked and the key
hidden. About 4 a.m. Angelina had called for Siga Annetta, who
went to see what she wanted. When the child saw her she said,
" Grandmother, so bad ! " ; complained of having been sick, and
pointed to signs of the sickness on the floor, but Siga Annetta could
see nothing. Then the child said she had dreamt of being in a very
large boat, with flags above, one of which had a s«Zad-coloured cross,
and that a man with a great beard had said, " Cut the ropes, cut
tlie sails."
Sig1ni Maria, who, as usual, only heard the child's story later on,
added the following particulars :—Angelina had told her that the flag
with the salad-coloured cross was red ; that the men had black trousers
and were in their shirt-sleeves ; that they were all upon a very large
tramway. It should be noted that at Venice the small steamboats
which carry passengers from one point of the city to another are called
tramtvays, and thus Angelina, when speaking of great tramways, meant
steamboats.
The absent child was now called, and repeated the account herself.
She said she had been in a steamboat with many men, none of whom
she knew. One of them had a long beard. There was a red flag with
a salad-coloured crown. When asked what she meant by crown, she
traced a cross with her finger. The confusion of names results from
the fact that devotional crowns generally carry a cross hanging from
the end. Angelina went on to relate that there was much water,
which even came inside ; and it thundered and lightened besides. The
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 267
man with the beard said, " Bend the sail* .' cut the ropes ! " She said
her legs ti-embled, that she could not stand, and then was sick.
We asked her if the steamboat was like those which go from Padua
to Venice (i.e., the trains) or like those on the Lagoon. She answered
that it was like those on the Lagoon. Sig* Annetta asked her if the
ropes she had talked about in the morning were stretched (horizontally)
or upright. "Upright," replied the child. Sigt Annetta told us that
the child habitually woke early, but never at 4 a.m., which at this
season is the middle of the night.
Setting aside the unseamanlike orders of the captain, which can be
explained by Elvira's ignorance of things nautical, this dream is
interesting from the fact that a new sensation is implicated in it,—a
visceral sensation. The child said she felt so ill ; she must even have
felt really sea-sick, as she believed she had vomited ; and this was all
the more remarkable as she had never been to sea, and does not come
of a seafaring family. She was therefore ignorant of the pathological
results of the oscillation of the body, and therefore the mere idea
of going to sea in bad weather was insufficient to set in action a-
pre-existing mechanism of associations based on memory only, and
producing the sensation of sea-sickness.
Part II.
Study of Visual Images.
I now proposed another method of control in order to test the
hypothesis of verbal suggestion. This was to show Signa Maria while
Elvira was present a previously unseen drawing, representing nothing
that she could describe in words, and then ask Elvira to make Angelina
see it in a dream. Afterwards I would show Angelina the real drawing,
mixed with others of the same type [which Signa Maria had not seen],
to see if she would recognise it after having dreamt of it.
On December 25th I asked Elvira, " If I showed you the design of
some architectural ornament chosen at hazard amongst many, could
you show it to Angelina in a dream, so that after she awoke she would
be able to recognise it amongst many others ? " Elvira replied (by
automatic writing), " Oh, yes, indeed, it will please me very much to
do it." Q. " Even if I used drawings unknown to you and Angelina
and Maria, such as machines, etc. 1 " A. " Yes, yes ; whatever you
please."
December 26</t. Evening.—I took with me Fig. V. of the first
number of Professor Romolo Trevisani's Corso (VOmalo, meaning to
begin with something easy. I left the five other pictures which the
268 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
number contains at home. As the picture is not mounted for safely
carrying in the pocket, I enclosed it between two very stiff pieces of
paper, so that it should not crease or tear, and thus be distinguishable
from the others, which are quite new.
However, this evening I could make no experiments, because
Adriano manifested instead of Elvira, and said, in automatic writing,
that he could not yet replace Elvira in such experiments.
December 27th. Evening.—The experiment with the drawing had
to be put off for the same reason as yesterday.
Experiment 31.—December 28lh. Evening.—Elvira manifested,
and said she was ready for the experiment. She said, however, that
she was much afraid she could not see the drawing without making
use of Signa Maria's eyes. Therefore, to prevent the latter from
looking at the drawing either more or less than was necessary, I
arranged with Elvira that she should make a sign with Signa Maria's
hand when she had seen enough, upon which I would cover the
picture again.
I then drew from my pocket the picture, which neither SigM
Maria nor any one else in the house had seen, and put it before her. In
about half a minute her hand moved, and I covered the picture and
pocketed it quickly so that no one else should see it. Elvira wrote at
once, " That is enough for me."
When I was leaving, I went to the room on the ground floor where
Angelina had only just awoke from her usual nap on the sofa. She
was very tiresome, as she usually is when sleepy. I thought she was
not at all in a state to receive any information from Signa Maria about
the drawing the latter had seen.
As it would be interesting to know if our normal personalities are
able to induce telepathic dreams in Angelina, as Elvira does, I had
tried at my house on several nights to suggest some dream to her, but
had had no results. Supposing that Signa Maria was in better con
ditions for such action, I begged her, on leaving, to will strongly and
frequently during the night, while Angelina was presumably a,sleep,
that she should dream she had a hen in her arms. And to induce
Signa Maria to do her best, I told her that what Elvira did she should
be able to do, which aroused her emulation.
December 29th. 7.15 a.m.—Siga Annetta, whom I saw first, told
me that yesterday evening, with the usual precautions, she had locked
the child into her room and hid the key, but that shortly before my
arrival she had heard calls, and knowing that Angelina was not well,
she had opened the door, and not having time to stop with her, had
been obliged to carry her to her own bed, where her daughter still was..
On going up I found Sig^ Maria still in bed and awake, and Angelina
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 269
asleep again ; however she soon awoke. Signa Maria assured me that
during the short time Angelina had been there, she had not spoken to
her about the drawing or anything.
Sig" Annetta then took the child downstairs. I gave her the
pictures, asking her to show them to Angelina and ask her if she had
dreamt of anything she saw among them. Of the six pictures, three
represented simple or composite leaves, and the other three are large
roses. Angelina selected Fig. V., saying she was sure she had dreamt
of that and not of the others.
I had, however, forgotten to hide the inscription, " Fig. V.," in the
corner when I showed the picture to Signa Maria the evening before,
and although Angelina does not know her alphabet or numbers, this
might have offered a point de repere sufficiently describable by words cr
drawing.
After the child had found the picture, I went upstairs to Signa
Maria's room carrying the pamphlet, and—avoiding any indication—
asked her to find the picture she had seen last evening. To my surprise
she rejected Fig. V., and hesitated between the other two roses. I
should add that directly after I had shown the rose to Signa Maria the
evening before, she could not tell me how many leaves it had.
This fact, which was repeated constantly during the experiments,
is probably of great importance in psychology, and particularly in
telepathy. Indeed, as may be already seen from this first example, it
was not that Signa Maria had forgotten the figure ; on the contrary,
she recognised it, but sub-consciously, otherwise she could not have
rejected it at once ; and besides, she always justifies such an action (as
will be seen later) by the most unlikely reasons, exactly as happens,
with a subject acting under a hypnotic suggestion intended to alter
his judgment. Consequently the telepathic transference of a sensory
image to another percipient is to Signa Maria practically the same
thing as the suggestion that she shall not be able to recognise the
image, and thus is the same thing as the disappearance of the image
from hf.r supraliminal consciousness. Naturally we must guard against
concluding genera] psychological laws from the psychical idiosyncrasies
of particular subjects ; but in any case the fact remains that such
illusions of memory present themselves in some subjects. And if
it finally becomes recognised that in all telepathic agents there exists
an inclination more or less strong to present such phenomena, this
would make a new point of view from which to explain the frequent
unconsciousness of the agent in spontaneous telepathy.
As to Signa Maria's attempt consciously to suggest a dream, she
told me she had tried to do what I told her, both overnight and in the
morning when Angelina fell asleep in her bed. But the latter said she
had had no other dream, and when a possible dream about a hen was
y
270 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
mentioned to her, she did not admit the suggestion, but positively
denied having had such a dream.
After dinner, when Signor C. Vanzetti was present, Elvira began
to write automatically, asking at once, "Are you pleased with me?"
I expressed my satisfaction at the success, but asked her if much time
and pains had been needed to induce the visual image in the little girl.
She replied, " No, on the contrary, it was very easy, only I thought the
child had not looked at it enough, and instead it was the grown-up one
(Maria) who should have been ashamed ; for I was here this morning,
and I was much amused to see that she chose any but the right (i.e., any
picture but the right), and she was so sure and so obstinate ! "
Experiment 32.—December 31s<. Evening.—Elvira manifested
through automatic writing, and I proposed a new experiment for that
night. T had brought J. Carpentier's Illustrated Catalogue of Electrical
Apparatus, Ed. July, 1887, Paris, and had decided to transfer to
Angelina Fig. 11,—a Weber's galvanometer. To avoid possible verbal
indications from the number of the figure, or its place, or the number
of the page, I placed the book (unseen by Signa Maria) on the sideboard,
open at the right page, covering up the page with four perfectly opaque
quires of white paper, so as to show the figure in the smallest possible
square. I then covered the figure with another piece of paper. When
Elvira said she was ready to look, I brought Sign" Maria close, and
directed her glance to the covered figure. I uncovered it quickly, and
looked at the time. After 52 seconds Sig1ni Maria said that Elvira had
moved her hand to show she had finished. I covered up the figure
again at once, and Signa Maria returned to the table. The communica
tion with Elvira was hardly finished, when I put the pamphlet in my
pocket, so that Signa Maria did not see it again. I determined in future
to follow the same method, also hiding the initials of the artist if they
exist, and to avoid as much as possible pictures with letters around
them, especially when the letters could easily be utilised for verbal
indications. In the present case I chose Fig. 11, because it has several
points in common with some others among the 34 in the catalogue, such
as the lower part consisting of a disc on three feet, a vertical rod in
the middle, etc., and because it would be very difficult (for anyone not
familiar with such instruments) to distinguish it by means of a verbal
description from Fig. 10, which is also a Weber's galvanometer.1
1 All the pamphlets containing diagrams used in this and the following experi
ments have been sent tc us by Dr. Ermacora. From a study of these, it seems to as
clear that it would be extremely difficult—if not impossible—for an unscientific
person with no knowledge of drawing, who had only seen one of the diagrams m emcA
case, either to describe it to another person in such a way as to enable him to pick
it out of the set, or to reproduce it from memory with sufficient accuracy to enable
him to recogniee it.—Ed.
Telepathic Dreams ElcperimenUdly Induced. 271
Elvira, in automatic writing, approved of this evening's methods,
and without making absolute promises of success, undertook to try.
I determined that if these experiments in the transference of
pictures should succeed, I would try either the rotation of the picture
in its own plane, or specular inversion, in order to render verbal trans
ference more difficult. I therefore asked Elvira if she could show the
child the picture, not as she herself saw it, but turned through some
ingle, or upside down in its own plane, or symmetrically inverted.
Of course I explained these terms in detail. She replied, " I think it
will be very easy ; we will try."
January 1st, 1893. 7 a.m.—I found Bigna Maria and Angelina
already risen, as the former's sister-in-law was ill. I asked Angelina if
she had dreamt of anything ; she said she had dreamt of playing with
a paper with a picture on it. I showed her Carpcntier's catalogue, but
she could not find the picture she had dreamt of, nor could she descritle
the figure of her dream. She only said it was like a horizontal pole.
Elvira did not manifest this evening.
January '2nd. Evening.—I asked Elvira the reason of yesterday's
non-success, and she replied, in automatic writing, " It was not the
child's fault. Because T tried to make her see the picture from another
side, as you told me, she did not see it well. It is my fault for doing
it too soon." This explanation is in agreement with Angelina's
impression, if we suppose that this " other side " of the picture meant
a rotation through 90 deg. in one direction or the other, because in
that position the glass tube which encloses the suspension thread
becomes a horizontal pole. In that case Angelina, holding the picture
straight, would not recognise it.
Experiment 33.—This evening I took the catalogue of J. Duboscq's
spectroscopes (Ed. 1876), and chose figure 4 beforehand. (See Plate
I., Fig. I.) It represents an Amici's spectroscope on a column with
three feet, which looks like a table with a central pillar. But two
other figures out of the eight in the catalogue have this three footed
column, and this would make verbal description of No. 4 insufficient.
Elvira was ready and pleased to experiment. The precautions
described above were repeated, and SigDa Maria looked at the picture
for 30 seconds. I need not say that nobody in the house had ever seen
the catalogue, and that I had shown it to no one beforehand. I must
here remark that this was always the case, and that I used a fresh
book each time.
This evening the conditions were more strict. The child was put to
bed and the door locked. I sealed a piece of paper over the keyhole
with four seals. Of course I left the key with Sig-'i Annetta in case of
necessity.
y 2
272 Dr. 0. B. Ermacora.
January 3rd. 6.30 a.m.—Siga Annetta was up, and said she had
been obliged to open the door, as Angelina wanted something, but that
she was asleep again. Signa Maria was still in bed in the other room,
and her mother assured me she had had no communication with the
child. Angelina woke and called Siga Annetta to dress her. I gave Sig*
Annetta the Duboscq's catalogue to show to Angelina, and remained
in Signa Maria's room. Siga Annetta then came to say that Angelina
had dreamt of playing with a paper on which was a picture, and that
on looking at the catalogue she recognised the picture, which she said
was like a table. As there are two spectroscopes of Kirchoff and
Bunsen in the book which are much more like tables, T told
Siga Annetta to warn Angelina to be sure which she had seen, or she
would not have her usual reward,—a sweetmeat. Siga Annetta
returned, and showed me Fig. 4, saying the child was sure that was it.
Thus the success was complete. I gave the book to Signa Maria to
identify the figure she had seen yesterday, but she rejected Fig. 4 and
chose Fig. 3, a spectroscope of Kirchoff and Bunsen, very unlike the
other. When asked her reason, she said that she had not chosen
Fig. 4 because the one she had seen had not that long piece (the body
of the spectroscope in Fig. 4), and that there were no little separate
pictures (sections of the prisms). Thus, Maria forgets precisely
those characteristics which are the most striking in the figure seen the
evening before.
Two days after, Signa Maria told me she had asked Angelina to
relate her dream, and that the child had said she would not talk about
it any more ; that she had given the picture she had played with back
to Uncle Giovanni (as she calls me), and that it was all done with.
This shows how vivid Angelina's dreams must be, since she confounds
them with objective events.
Elvira did not manifest in the evening. I charged Signa Maria to
make Angelina dream of a vine loaded with ripe black grapes, and of
eating them.
January 1th. Evening.—Sign6 Maria told me she had tried hard
and' often during the night to suggest the proposed dream to
Angelina, but that when she was asked about it, she replied that she
had dreamt of playing with other children outside the door, and when
asked if she had eaten any fruit in her dream, she said, no.
Experiment 34.—That evening I had taken with me No. 19 of the
Revue Genirale des Sciences, October 15th, 1892, and had chosen for
experiment Fig. 16, p. 668. (See Plate I., Fig. II.) This was a rather
daring choice, because out of the 18 figures in the book, 9 were of the
same type and none were easily describable in words. The 9 pictures
are reproductions of photographs by C. V. Boys, representing projectiles
Telepathic Dreams Expertmentally Induced. 273
in motion. All have a grey background, a more or less formless block
spot (the projectile), curves representing the waves of displacement of
the air, and irregular lines representing the electric conductors used to
produce the illuminating spark. Two others, besides the selected
figure, have a thick vertical line representing the surface of a plate of
glass traversed by the projectile, and in the other five, as in the chosen
picture, the outline of the projectile is partly hidden in a sort of fog.
Fig. 16, which I selected, has no very special characteristics ; it is
however the smallest.
As it was probable that Angelina's room would be opened again the
following night, I proposed that a neighbour should sleep with her to
attend to her, if Elvira approved. The two would naturally be locked
up together. When the picture had been placed as usual and com-
mnnication with Elvira established, I asked her if she was disposed for
a new experiment. She replied, " Yes ; but no promises " (of success).
Dr. E. " Would it disturb you if Nannella slept with Angelina to
avoid the opening of the door ? "
Elv. "Is she big or little?"
Dr. E. "She is 14. She is downstairs. Perhaps you can go and
look at her and see if her presence will suit you."
Elv. (after a pause) " Well, do it, but on one condition ; that she
does not disturb the child. We can try, but I cannot understand
everything by just looking at her."
Signa Maria then looked at the picture for 18 seconds, with the
usual precautions The time seemed short, and I asked Elvira,
" Did you see well ? " She replied (by automatic writing), " Yes, very
welL"
I put the book in my pocket, and, allowing no communication
between Sign* Maria and Angelina, proceeded to blockade the latter
and Nannella. When they were in bed and quiet, Siga Annetta
locked the door, and I examined it and sealed paper over the lock as
before. I had written a sentence on the paper, and of course carried
away my seal.
January 5th. 6.45 a.m.—Found Siga Annetta up, all the others in
bed. Siga Annetta said she had heard the child, but had not opened
the door. I went up and carefully examined the form and position of
the seals, which I recognised as those I had made. I told Siga Annetta
to open, while I went to wait in her daughter's room, who was awake.
I waited till the neighbour had gone, as I wished her to knew nothing
of the experiments. Then I bade Siga Annetta ask the child simply
'hat she had dreamt. She said, " Of playing with pieces of paper."
Sig" Annetta then took the Revue to her, and I waited. I heard that
Angelina was cross and noisy, and had small hope. Soon after,
Sig" Annetta came back with the book open at page 668, and showed
I
274 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
me a figure which Angelina said she had dreamt of. It was Fig. 16,
and Angelina had said that was the one, because it had a little snake
in it (the curved conductor).
The word snake has a close verbal association with this figure, but
any one who discovers in this a sign of verbal suggestion should
notice, first, that nine of the figures in the book have one or more
curved lines, and secondly that Fig. 16 is not the one that most recalls
a snake; Fig. 14 does so much more. The real point of difference
between Fig. 16 and the others, i.e., its smallness, would have served
Signa Maria much better for verbal suggestion. And besides, how could
verbal suggestion have taken place 1 Signa Maria would have been
obliged to shout a description of the figure outside Angelina's closed
door. Now no hypnotist will believe that a child of four years, in
natural sleep, could be made to distinguish Fig. 16 from the others by
such means. Or can any one believe that such an exact idea could
be conveyed to a child awakened in the night, when she would
naturally be sleepy and cross 1 And then, why should her companion
and Siga Annetta in the next room have heard nothing 1 It may be
said that SigIla Maria reproduced the drawing, unconsciously or not,
and passed it beneath the door. But Signa Maria cannot draw,
automatically or otherwise. How could a child, ignorant that she
was being experimented upon, have eluded her companion, got a light,
and studied the drawing given her by such means 1 I believe all this
not only impossible for Signa Maria in somnambulism, but also if she
had consciously and artfully used her senses. I will not raise the idle
question of the good faith of the persons concerned, for which I can
answer, but it seems to me that the conditions stated put fraud out of
the question. Naturally, I do not base conclusions on one success ;
my experiments were carried further, as will be seen.
From Signa Maria's position she could not see what picture her
mother had pointed out to me. I gave her the closed book, that she
might find the picture she had seen last evening. After some hesita
tion, she thought she recognised Fig. 15, but was not sure, because
they were all so much alike and she only remembered the dusky
oolour. As Fig. 15 was 103mm by 135mm, while Fig. 16 was only
5gmm \yy 91mm; j asked her if last night's picture was not smaller.
She said she thought it was, but that she might not have seen all of
it ; part might have been hidden.
Rotation of Figures.
Experiment 35.—January 5th. 3 p.m.—I took a number of the
Revue Generale des Sciences, dated March 30th, 1892 (No. 6), to Sig,l*
Maria.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 275
I placed Fig. 11, p. 206, in the usual way for Sign* Maria, but,
without her knowledge, turned it upside down. It represented a section
of a pump for spraying antiseptic liquids, and would be meaningless to
any one unacquainted with machines (see Plate I., Fig. III). The
number contains 26 figures, most of them very unlike Fig. 11.
There are only three others representing sections of disinfecting
apparatus, which, however, do not resemble Fig. 11.
When communication with Elvira was established (automatic
writing), she said, " Tell me only what you want for to-night, because
I cannot stop so long as I did yesterday."
I showed her the picture as usual for 17 seconds, and then the con
versation continued.
Dr. E " I should like you to show Angelina the picture turned
half-way round in its own plane ; that is, upside down."
Elv. " I will not promise, but will try."
Dr. E. " Did Nannella's presence interfere with the success ? "
Elv. "For my part, she does not disturb me at all."
January Qlh. 7.30 a.m.—As the picture had been looked at in
the afternoon, I had been unable to lock up Angelina at night. Signa
Maria and her mother had risen when I arrived. The child had left
her own room a little before, and was in Signa Maria's bed. I
remained in the latter's room while Siga Annetta carried off the child
to dress her. Before leaving the room she said she had dreamt of
playing with papers. I asked her if there were pictures on them, and
she said, yes. Angelina was carried to her own bed, and I sent her
the book. Soon after, Siga Annetta came back to say that Angelina
was puzzled and had put the book into disorder (it had come unsewn).
In a short time she returned, and giving me the book upside down,
pointed to Fig. 11, and said that Angelina had recognised it decidedly
and at once, exclaiming, " That's it." Yesterday I had shown the
picture to Elvira reversed, but had asked her to show it to Angelina
upside down in relation to the position in which Elvira had seen it—
that is to say, right side up. Now, as AngeUna had been obliged to
put the book into confusion to find the picture, and Siga Annetta had
given it to me upside down, it seemed that a vision of the figure
upside down had been produced. I kept Signa Maria as usual in igno
rance of the figure Angelina had indicated, and gave her the closed
book that she might search for herself. After a short examination of
the book right side up, she chose the right half of Fig. 5, which half
is the very picture least unlike the one she had seen the day be/ore. I
told her she was wrong, and that she must turn the book upside down.
But she persisted in choosing the same half of Fig. 5. I did not con
tinue to tell her she was wrong, and decided not to do so in future, for
fear of interfering with results.
276 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
About 4 p.m. I want back to Sig'la Maria, and put myself into
communication with Elvira.
Elv. ' ' Tell me if you are content."
Dr. E. " Yes, I am pleased, although last night the conditions were
not strict enough. Have you any observation to make about the
experiment 1 " (Alluding to the failure, as I supposed, in turning the
picture.)
Elv. " I made her see it right side up, as you told me she ought to
see it turned."
Dr. E. " Explain how you knew that the picture you saw yesterday
evening was upside down."
Elv. " Who is talking of yesterday evening 1 I knew it this
morning when I was present while the child was searching."
Dr. E. " But since you saw Angelina examining the book, you must
have seen that it was upside down, so that the turning did not take
place in the dream."
Elv. "But what are you driving at? The child looked for it this
morning with the book right side up ; I know that. When Angelina
gave the book to her grandmother, it was by its proper side."
Now, from Elvira's coherent explanation, it will be seen that she
maintains that the figure she saw yesterday was shown right side
up in the dream, and that, in spite of appearances to the contrary,
Angelina found it with the volume right side up. Siga Annetta was
absent, so I could not ask her on which side Angelina had recognised
the figure ; but I called the latter from the ground floor, where she
could not have overheard the preceding dialogue, and asked her to find
the picture she had seen in her dream again, putting the book right
side up before her. Of course I took care that Sign" Maria should not
be able to influence her involuntarily. I turned over the pages, and
before reaching the right one, she showed me with her finger that the
picture was at the top and to the left [which is correct]. When she
reached p. 206, she pointed out Fig. 11 at once without hesitation.
Not content with this, I turned the book upside down, and asked her
if by chance she had seen it in this position, but in spite of the
suggestive question, she gave a decided No. As the figure is in a
corner, it is inadmissible that Angelina should have been mistaken
after her prompt and spontaneous declaration.
Next morning I took back the book and asked Siga Annetta to
show me again, if she remembered, the picture Angelina had chosen
the previous morning. I held the book right side up, and turned the
pages ; at p. 206 she showed me Fig. 11. I also asked her if the child
had not selected the picture with the book upside down, but she said,
No. Thus it is plain that Elvira was right.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 277
Experiment 36. — On January 6th I showed Elvira, for a fresh
dream, Fig. 3, p. 269, of the Revue Generale det Sciences for April
30th, 1892 (No. 8). It has 14 pictures, but 4 only are of the same
type as Fig. 3, which represents Carpentier's declinometer. The other
3 which are like it represent magnetic instruments, all with tripods,
which would suggest tables to non-scientific persons, and Fig. 1 has
also a vertical tube like Fig. 3.1 The usual precautions were taken,
and Elvira looked at the figure upside down for 35 seconds. Unfor
tunately, this figure was lettered, which may have shown SigM Maria
that it was upside down.
Jamiary 7th. 7.30 a.m.—Angelina told Sign Annetta that she
had no dream.
Experiment 37. Evening.—I asked Elvira if she had anything
to say. She replied (automatic writing), " Yes ; excuse me for having
tailed last night ; it was not the difficulty, but because I could not
come. If you like, we will have the same figure again ; if not,
change it."
1 agreed to Elvira's proposal, wishing to see if she would remember
the picture after 24 hours. I asked her again to turn it upside
down.
In order to prevent future confusion in counting successes and
failures, I asked Elvira to tell me in automatic writing, when I came
to verify results, if she had tried to act or not ;—of course before any one
questioned the child. For evidently if, before I broke the blockade,
Elvira wrote, " To-night I could not act," this might be counted, not as
a failure, but as an experiment not carried out. Elvira accepted my
proposal.
January 8th. 7.45 a.m.—Yesterday Angelina's sister and a servant
had arrived from Venice, and Angelina's room had been given to
them, so that she had slept with Sigin1 Maria and her mother. I
found the two girls in bed, but awake. Signa Maria told me that
Angelina had already said she had dreamt, but that she would only
tell her dream to her grandmother. Sig* Annetta carried her out of
the room, and after an interval returned and told me that the child
had dreamt of the usual papers. She took the closed number of the
Rente dss Sciences to the child, and I told her to make Angelina look
at the pictures from all sides, and to bring back the book exactly in
the position the child pointed out. After a few moments, she brought
back the book open at p. 269, and showed me Fig. 3 right side up.
Consequently Angelina must have dreamt of the figure seen by
1 Perhaps the most conspicuous feature in this diagram is that the tube is opened
to show the internal mechanism, so that it might be described as a round cupboard
with anopen door. No other figures in the book have this feature.—Ed.
278 Dr. 0. B. Ermacora.
Elvira the evening before last, and have dreamt of it right side upr
which was intended.1
Experiment 38.—In the evening, I had chosen and prepared in
the usual way Fig. 11, p. 40, of the Lumiere Electrique for
January 13th, 1883, representing a vertical section of a turbine,
without letters or figures. The number contained twenty-six figures
or groups of figures. Two of them represent landscapes, and must not
be counted. The others are chiefly sections of scientific instruments,
very unlike No. 11 for any one who can compare them, while Figs. 7,
13, and 17, which also represent vertical sections of turbines, are
sufficiently like No. 11 to prevent Signa Maria from describing the
latter to Angelina in terms which would enable the child to distin
guish it from them. And her powers of drawing, either in a conscious
or an automatic state, are too low to allow of her making a sketch of
it from memory. Elvira looked at the picture for 28 seconds, and
was requested to turn it. She replied, " I understand, and I hope
there will be no difficulty."
January 9th. 7.45 a.m.—Signa Maria slept with Angelina and the
servant this night. They were in bed when I arrived. Signa Maria
and the servant assured me that they had not talked about dreams
since waking. Angelina was carried off as usual, and Elvira wrote,
" I have not tried, because the child was too excited. I will try
to night without fail."
Angelina's father had arrived the evening before and wished to
take her back with him, which had greatly vexed her, on account of
her love for Sigmi Maria, and though he had yielded to me and agreed
to leave her, she was still alarmed.
I went downstairs, and Angelina told me at once that she had hat!
no dream ; she had previously told Sig* Annetta the same thing.
In the evening Signa Maria was not well, and we had no com
munication with Elvira.
January 10th. 7A5 a.m.—Sign" Maria and Angelina were still in
bed, where they had slept together. Angelina told me she had a
dream to relate, but would only tell it to her grandmother. She
was carried off, and Elvira wrote, " I have not been able to do
anything."
Siga Annetta came back to say that Angelina had dreamt of
playing with her sister Enrichetta. This dream was natural after the
sister's visit, but the case shows that Elvira's predictions of success or
non-success were dependable.
1 It may be noted that Angelina found the figure the first time she looked for it ;
but see note on p. 277.—Ed.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 279
Experiment 39.—In the evening, I showed Elvira the same picture
again. This time it was turned 90 deg. in the opposite direction to
the hands of a clock, consequently on its side, instead of in the position
of the day before yesterday. This transforms it into quite another
figure for Sign* Maria. The observation lasted 1 7 seconds, and I then
charged Elvira to turn it 90 deg. more in the opposite direction to the
clock hands. This rotation of the sensorial image, added to the
rotation already really made, should have made Angelina drenm of it
upside down.
January llth. 6.45 a.m.—I found only Biga Annetta risen. Her
daughter and the child were awake, but in their respective rooms.
Sign* Maria said she had not yet spoken to Angelina. Later on in the
evening, Sig* Annetta told me she had locked Angelina alone into her
room immediately after I had gone, and that she had only opened the
door a quarter of an hour before my coming. In the meantime
Angelina had not left her bed, nor spoken of dreams. While Signa
Maria was still in bed, we communicated with Elvira, who wrote
automatically, " I have tried, and hope I have succeeded."
I gave the book to Sig1 Annetta, warning her that Angelina might
not find the picture with the book right side up, but might be obliged
to turn it. I gave no indication as to the direction or degree of the
rotation. She soon returned and showed me the figure in the position
in which the child had recognised it. It was Fig. 11, p. 40, but
upside down, not as had been pre-arranged, but from Elvira's point of
view of yesterday. Siga Annetta assured me that the child had
recognised it thus, and again in the evening she added that Angelina
had turned the book spontaneously, Siga Annetta having said nothing
about my instructions. Signa Maria was unable from her place to see
the picture pointed out by her mother or the position of the lxlok, and I
gave it to her closed, warning her to look at the pictures from all sides.
She said at once that she recognised Fig. 7, p. 309, as the picture she
had seen. She was holding it turned 90 deg. in the contrary direction
to the hands of the clock. This was the position of yesterday, and
Fig. 7 is the most like Fig. 11 in this position ; therefore this first
judgment follows the law I have pointed out of the substitution of
another idea wilh the least possible error.
I asked Angelina if she had recognised the picture by any par
ticular sign, or by its whole. As far as I could judge, she had recog
nised the whole.
On the following evening (January 12th) I asked Elvira, "How
do you know if you have made Angelina dream or not 1 " She
replied, " I know from the child's more or less quiet sleep. If she
moves a little afterwards, the result is doubtful ; if she is quiet, I
am sure,"
280 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
For various reasons, no more experiments of this kind were made
until March 1st. I tried meanwhile to utilise the time in new experi
ments in transferring telepathic dreams by Sig,,a Maria's voluntary
efforts. But after repeated trials I was forced to acquiesce in failure.
The total number of such experiments, including those of December
28th and 29th, 1892, and of January 3rd and 4th, 1893, is 14. Of
these, 10 were suggested while the agent and supposed percipient were
in the same bed. On one other occasion the agent went close to the
percipient's bed ; it is not stated in my notes if she did so on the three
remaining occasions. All tlie dreams which she tried to suggest were
of ideas familiar to the child. As there was only one very doubtful
and partial success (a vision of Signor Vanzetti) among 1 4 attempts,
it appears that,—admitting the possibility that Sign* Maria's normal
personality might produce telepathic dreams in Angelina,—we may
yet regard this personality as absolutely unfit for such an office (at
least during this period) in comparison with Elvira. Moreover, the
fact that on one occasion (February 1 lth-1 2th) Signa Maria enforced
her mental suggestion by humming the music to the child,—without
succeeding any more than in the other cases,—shows that the latter
does not possess the great sensorial suggestibility which would have
been necessary if Elvira had produced the dream by such means. This
is, therefore, another argument in favour of the telepathic explanation.
It may be objected that Sign2- Maria's conviction that only Elvira
could succeed may have been the cause of her failures. But the
oontrary was the case, as I had explained to Signa Maria that
the thing could be done, and that she ought not to show herself
inferior to Elvira. I do not know how these assertions were received
by Signa Maria's subliminal consciousness, and it is idle to discuss
the point, but the personality of Maria accepted them as reasonable,
and acted with zeal and the hope of success. Otherwise she would not
have risen—as she once did—half-dressed in the cold to enforce her
suggestions.
Experiment 40. —March 1st. 4 p.m.—I chose Fig. 3 of the
Eleclricien (October 29th, 1892) for this night's dream. It is
without letters, and represents a complicated machine used in the
manufacture of submarine cables. There are six figures in the
number, without reckoning advertisements on coloured paper. Two
of these are absolutely unlike Fig. 3 ; three others represent machines
of the same kind as it. The distinguishing characteristics of Fig. 3
for an ignorant person would be its numerous toothed and untoothed
wheels, also some discs with pegs perpendicular to their planes ; [but
these features are also found in all the other three similar figures.]
My choice of the two positions of the figure, at the time of observation
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 2b1
and in the dream, was made by lot. I distinguish four positions
corresponding to the four sides of the volume. No. 1 is the proper
position for reading, No. 2 with the book on its right side, No. 3 upside-
down, and No. 4 with its left side to the observer. I threw the dice,
and position No. 2 turned up. The picture was arranged in the usual
vaj. During the communication with Elvira, Signa Maria looked at
the figure for 25 seconds. Position 1 was chosen by lot for the dream.
This would bring the book right side up, but not the figure, which
was placed lengthwise down the page.
March 2nd. 9 a.m.—Sign" Maria said she had not yet asked the
child about the dream. Before questioning her we communicated
with Elvira, who wrote, " I have tried, and hope I have succeeded ;
hut if not, do not be too tired to try again."
Angelina, interrogated in another room by Siga Annetta, said she
had dreamt of holding a book with a picture. I sent the number of
the Eltclricien to her, telling her to look at the pictures from all sides.
Sig5 Annetta returned with the book open at p. 290, Fig. 3, and said
that the child had recognised the little pot. When Angelina was
made to seek again in my presence, she again chose Fig. 3, in
Position 1, and said she had really seen it so. Siga Annetta also
assured me the child had found it thus, and only thus do the parts
she called a little jwt resemble one. Therefore my programme had
been carried out.
This time Sig1ni Maria was placet! so that it was just possible she
might have seen the picture her mother pointed out. However, she
believed she recognised Fig. 2 in Position 1 [the one most like Fig. 3].
As Angelina had said she knew the picture again from the little pot
(an insignificant detail) T showed the pot to Signa Maria, asking her if
she had seen it in yesterday's picture. She said she did not remember
it at all. This case leads me to suspect that I may be right in suppos-
lng that the points most impressed upon the percipient are exactly
those which most easily disappear from the consciousness of the agent,
or perhaps never enter it.
No control or blockade had been possible in this last experiment.
Angelina had slept in her own room, but at 4 a.m. had waked and
called, so that Siga Annetta and Sig"a Maria had taken her into their
Led.1
ExjKriment 41.—4 p.m. (about).—This time I had chosen the picture
of a microscopic preparation, looking like a mere scrawl (Fig. 10, p. 634,
r,f the Revue Generate dee Sciences, for September 30th, 1892). There
are twelve pictures in the number, all of microscopic preparations,
1 The figure used in this experiment is so extremely complicated that it is
specially difficult to believe that any verbal description of it could have sufficed for
recognition.—Ed.
282 Dr G. B. Ermacora.
and all more or less like irregular blotches. Fig. 2 is much like 10,
both having marble-like markings on a spotted ground.
I chose Position 2 by lot. The picture was placed as usual, and
the engraver's name (appearing on the margin of Figs. 2 and 8 also)
was carefully hidden. Elvira looked at it for 30 seconds. I then, by
means of the dice, selected position 1 for the dream.
March 3rd. 8.30 a.m. —Everybody was up. I had not been able
to lock up Angelina, and she had left her bed in the night to go to
8igna Maria's. The latter had not yet asked the child about her
dream. Elvira wrote, " I have tried, and hope I have succeeded."
Siga Annetta then questioned the child, who said she had dreamt of
a book with a picture, but not like the last. The book was taken
to her on the ground-floor, and when Sig" Annetta called me I found
her with it before her in position 2. She pointed out Fig. 10. I
asked her if she had seen it in this position. She said first " No," and
then " Yes." It is natural to think, however, that she had seen the
figure in the position in which she held it, and that therefore the
rotation of 90 deg. had been effected. I asked her how she recognised
the figure, but she was already confused by my previous question, and
pointed to its extreme left, where there was nothing particular.
I carried the book to Signa Maria, who had remained upstairs.
After examination she rejected the most unlike figures. Then holding
the book in Position 2, as it had been during the observation, she
hesitated between Figs. 2 and 10 ; but finally chose Fig. 2.
March ith.—I went to Signa Maria's house, but forgot to take a
book. As I know that the child has a tolerably good ear for music, I
suggested to Elvira to make Angelina dream of a musical phrase. She
replied, " We must first have done with the figure dreams, or the child
will be confused and I shall have more difficulty in returning to them."
This advice, not to mix impressions of diverse kinds, should be
noted by students of experimental telepathy.
Experiment 42.—March 5th. Evening.—I selected Fig. 19, p. 41 1,
of the I.umiere Electriquc for June 14th, 1884, for this night's dream. It
has minute letters and numbers, but so have many of the others in the
book. Fig. 19 is a diagram of an electric light station, and includes
besides the dynamo a number of accessory pieces of apparatus. It is
on a small scale, which makes it still more complicated and confused.
Of the 37 pictures in the book, 19 are of the same type,— diagram*
drawn in black lines on a white ground, without shading, and having
minute details marked by letters and figures.
I put the picture into position 4, taking care to hide its upper
portion, which represents a circuit, with lamps depending from it, and
looks like a ladder, so that it could be easily described.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 283
The observation lasted 65 seconds. I asked Elvira to make
Angelina see it in Position 1.
Before leaving, and without Signa Maria's having been able to com
municate with the child (she went downstairs for an instant to fetch
something, but Angelina was asleep), I locked her into the little room,
sealing a piece of paper by one end to the door near the handle, and by
the other to the doorpost. The piece of paper was half of a larger
piece, on which I had written. It was cut across the words. This
was to prevent the paper being changed, and I took the other half
home. I had left my seal at home, and used one belonging to Sign*
Maria, which, of course, I took away with me. I took notes of the
position, form, and colour of the drops of sealing-wax. Naturally, if
there had been any suspicion of fraud, these precautions would have
been illusory, because Signa Maria could have described the figure
through door or window, or have passed a picture'out through chinks
or window. But as in this case there could be no fear of fraud,
but only of possible somnambulic action, this locking up was of
great importance, since it made such action impracticable. In fact, if
Signa Maria had tried to describe the figure under the conditions
mentioned, the only effect would have been to alarm her mother, and to
make her inform me that her daughter had gone mad.
When I left that evening, Angelina was still asleep on the sofa.
8iga Annetta and another person present told me that she had been
asleep when Signa Maria had come down for a moment, and that the
latter had said nothing about dreams.
March 6th. 8 a.m.—From the street I saw Signa Maria waiting to
be liberated, and Angelina was at the door. Siga Annetta said that
they had not exchanged a word. I found the seals1 in every minutest
detail identical with those made the evening before ; the paper was a
little stretched. But I remembered having dried the writing at a
petroleum lamp. This must have shrunk the paper, and the dampness
of the night had restored its original length. The two halves corres
ponded.
After letting Signa Maria out, I asked Elvira if she had acted, and
if she hoped for success. She wrote, " I have tried, and hope I have
succeeded." Then Siga Annetta went as usual to question Angelina
on the ground floor, and returned saying the child had had the usual
dream about a piece of paper with a picture on it. I sent her the
book to search, and she soon sent word she had found the picture. I
found her with the book in Position 1, and she showed me Fig. 19,2
1 Every evening after fixing the seals, I write a very minute description of them,
to assist my recollection.
2 The figure is an extremely complicated one.—Ed.
284 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
so that she had seen the right figure turned as proposed. Then I took
the book to Big"* Maria. She hesitated between Fig. 20 and Fig. 23.
As usual, the figures mistakenly recognised are those which most.
nearly resemble the right one.
Experiment 43.—T took the number of La I.umiere Electrique for
April 4th, 1885, with me when I went back in the evening. The
figure I had chosen was No. 13, p. 16. The book contains 45
figures, of which 12 are of the same type and about the same size as.
No. 13; they are diagrams of electrical apparatus in black lines on &
white ground. Eight of them, including Fig. 13, are very much alike.
They are diagrams of an Edison dynamo with circuits and accessory
apparatus. Figs. 12, 13, and 14 only differ from one another by very
small details. Fig. 13 is lettered, but so are 12 and 14, in analogous,
parts.
With the dice I chose Position 4 for the figure. When Elvira had
communicated, Signa Maria looked at it for 40 seconds with one eye only.
Position 2 was selected by means of the dice for the dream, so I asked
Elvira to turn the picture upside down. I told her to make Angelina
see it well, as it was to be distinguished from others much like it.
Before going to bed, Signa Maria went downstairs twice to fetch
something, but I accompanied her on both occasions to see that she had
no communication with the others. The child was asleep, and Signa
Maria uttered no word and made no gesture relative to the experi
ments. I then sealed her up in her room as I had done on the previous
evening.
March 1th. 7.40 a.m.—Angelina was up and at the front door.
Siga Annetta said she had waked half an hour ago, that Signa Maria
had not yet risen, and that no communication between them had been
possible. I went up and examined the seals, which were intact ; the
pieces of paper corresponded exactly. Signa Maria was still asleep. I
woke her, and she said her head had ached during the night, and did
so still.
I gave her the writing-book and pencil, and Elvira wrote directly,
" I have tried and have good hope, but excuse me if there is no
success."
Siga Annetta now came to say that the child had dreamt of play
ing with many papers. The book was taken to her by Sig* Annetta
as usual, and I stayed upstairs. Soon after, Siga Annetta called me
and showed me Fig. 13 (see Plate II. Fig. IV.), which Angelina had
chosen. But the rotation had not been effected ; the picture was in
Position 1 instead of 2, and the child said she had seen it so.
Signa Maria then looked at the book in Position 4., as Elvira had
seen it the previous evening, and standing behind her T saw ihat when
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 285
she came to p. 16, she looked fixedly at Figs. 13 and 14 ; she passed
them over in the hope of perhaps finding something better, but went
back and chose Fig 14 (see Plate II., Fig. V.) When asked why she
preferred 14 to 13, she said she recognised Fig. 14 by two small rods
(the two limbs of the field magnets of the dynamo). Besides, Fig. 1 3
was excluded on account of the lines being diagonal, and because the
npper arc (in Position 4) had swellings (the spirals representing the
resistance diagrammatically), which she had not seen yesterday. Again,
the figure seemed taller (regarding it in Position 4). However, she
confessed that during yesterday's observation, she had not remarked
the arcs at the top of Fig. 14 (Position 4). She did not remember
having seen letters or numbers.
Specular Inversion of Figures.
Experiment 44.—March 8lh. 6 p.m.—It seemed to me that success
with simple rotation of the figures was sufficiently established, and
that I might now try specular inversion. I thought of using some
fignre symmetrical on either side of its axis, making Sign* Maria look
at one half only, while the other half should be shown in the dreanu
and recognised by the child. I therefore took with me Vol. II. of
Professor Romolo Trevisani's Corso cTOrnato, which contains five-
ornamental designs very nearly symmetrical. These I had cut into
symmetrical halves, making ten pieces, and the left half of Fig. IX was
chosen for observation. I showed the figure to Signa Maria with the
inscription Fig. IX. directly before her in the left-hand upper corner
of the paper. I did this expressly to see if the inscription would be
used as a point de repere. Signa Maria looked at the picture for 40
seconds, and I asked Elvira to execute a specular inversion of it.
March 9</t. 8.30 a.m.—I first asked Elvira if she had acted. She-
replied (automatic writing), "Yes, I have tried, and hope I have
succeeded." [Angelina, however, could not find the right . picture,
though the one she chose resembled it more than any of the others,
and had Fig. XI. engraved in the corner instead of Fig. IX.]
It is to be noted that if the specular image of the observed
picture was seen in the dream, the Fig. IX. must also have been
inverted ; and if it attracted the child's attention, she must necessarily
have rejected the other half of Fig. IX. because this sign was missing
from it, and have preferred the half bearing the inscription Fig. XI.
because it was the most like the dream picture [of all those that bore
numbers].
Experiment 45. March 10th.—I had chosen Fig. 2, p. 387, of the
Lumiert Electrique, for September 6th, 1884, for this day's experiment,
z
286 Dr. 0. B. Ermaeora.
[representing an elaborate apparatus for electric lighting.] Its two
halves were almost symmetrical on each side of a central vertical axis,
and I intended to show one half to Signa Maria, covering the other
with the usual folds of paper, to see if, after Elvira had inverted the
figure, the child would recognise the other half as her dream picture.
[The result of this experiment was doubtful : the figure selected was
not the right one, but was more like it than any other figure in the
book.]
Experiment 46. March Wth.—About 4 p m., I went back to
Signa Maria with the picture for the next experiment. I had planned
to make Elvira see the picture inverted in a mirror, and that she
should invert it again in the dream, so that the child might see it in
its original position. A screen was to be used, to prevent Signa Maria
first seeing the picture directly, and she was to look at it with one eye
through a hole in the screen. She was already accustomed to use one
eye only in these experiments (see ante, p. 284), and the change had
caused no new difficulty.
The picture I had selected was a group formed of Figs. 30 and 31,
p. 221, of the Lumiere Electrique, for August 9th, 1884 (see Plate II.,
Fig. VI.) The number contains 39 figures, or groups of figures forming
a whole. The figure chosen was a section of a gas-burner for soldering
electric lamps ; there were a few small letters on it, and the words air
and gaz, which I only perceived later. The figure would be unintel
ligible to unscientific persons, and had nothing striking about it but
the detached part (Fig. 31), which was like the claw of a cray-fish.
But this shape, detached or otherwise, was to be found in 5 other
figures.
Position 2 was selected by means of dice, and the edges of the
diagram were covered with sheets of paper as usual. I then arranged
the vertical screen with its opening, and the inclined mirror intended
to reflect and invert the horizontal figure.
When Signa Maria had put her eye to the hole, I uncovered the
picture, and then covered it again at the usual signal. The observa
tion lasted 25 seconds. The figure was so disposed that nothing could
be seen through the hole in the screen but its inverted reflection.
Elvira now wrote, " Have you anything to say 1 I am quite satisfied.''
I asked her to invert the figure, and she answered, " Very well, I will
try."
March 12th. 8 a.m.—As usual Sig"a Maria had said nothing about
the dream, nor had Angelina. We asked Elvira if she had tried and
succeeded. She said, " Yes, I have tried as usual, and hope I have
succeeded; but if I have not quite done so, excuse me." Siga Annetta
then questioned the child, who said she had dreamt of a picture with
Telepathic Dream-i Experimentally Induced. 287
a round thing and a long thing. Siga Annctta took her the book, and
returned in a few minutes with it open at p. 221, Figs. 30 and 31, the
right ones, but in Position 1 —that is, right side up. I went down to
question Angelina, and she said she had seen it so.
It will be seen that, besides the specular inversion, the figure had
been turned 90 degrees on its own axis.
I caused Sigoa Maria, when searching for her yesterday's picture, to
look at the book as reflected in the mirror, and in Position 2. She chose
Fig. 29,1 excluding the small Fig. 28 close to it. When asked why
Figs. 30 and 31 (the right ones) would not do, she replied that they were
not like, because of the long thing, and the separate part (Fig. 31).
Thus it is evident that the two points which enabled the percipient
to recognise the pictures were exactly those which faded first from the
empirical consciousness of the person who transmitted them.
Experiment 47.—[Evening.]—As I had seen that Signa Mariu
did not see the picture easily when the mirror was used, I aban
doned the plan for the time, and used pairs of symmetrical figures
made on the spot. This was easily done by dropping ink on a piece
of paper, doubling the paper, and rubbing it over, so as to obtain
complicated and outlined marks. I used an ink made of an
aniline colour dissolved in a mixture of water and glycerine. When
the paper was cut in two along the crease, one half was a specular
image of the other. One half was then used for the observa
tion, and afterwards, mixed with the others, was to be recognised,
—or rather not recognised,—by Signa Maria, while the second half,
also mixed up with the others, was to be recognised by the child. Such
figures would naturally be difficult to describe in words, or to copy,
unless the copyist could draw. I took five pieces of paper, twice
as long as they were broad, making, when folded and torn in two, ten
square pieces ; I then shuffled them carefully, and taking them as
they came, numbered them from 1 to 10, so that no one could divine
from the numbers which figure was the half of which other. I kept
them in their case, and chose Fig. 9 by means of the dice. I got
Position 4 (always regarding the side where the ordinal numbers were
written as the top) and put it before Signa Maria, who looked at it for
50 seconds. It was then quickly replaced in my pocket with the
others. I asked Elvira to execute its specular inversion, and myself
remained ignorant of the number and position of the figure which
would correspond to it after the operation.
Sig™ Maria went down to say good-night to her mother while
Angelina was sleeping. I then sealed her into her room as before,
1 Fig. 29 closely resembles part of Fig. 30.—Eu.
z 2
288 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
taking the additional precaution of noting on paper the exact size of
the seals, and even of the drops of sealing-wax, as well as of the
inevitable creases in the paper.
March 13th. 7.30 a.m.—I found Angelina and Siga Annetta
already up, but the fonner had only been awake since 7, and had but
just risen. I went upstairs, and, unseen by any one, examined the
seals, which I found intact. I tore the paper and entered, finding
Signa Maria still asleep. Meanwhile Siga Annetta questioned the
child, who had dreamt of a picture on a paper. I then sent the ten
pictures to the child, the pairs being thoroughly mixed, telling her she
must look at them from all sides.
Elvira wrote, " I have tried, but am afraid I did not quite succeed
in inverting the figure."
Sig" Annetta soon called me down, and Angelina showed me Fig. 6
in Position 3. Now, the inversion of the figure as I had directed
would really have given Fig. 6, but in Position 1 instead of 3.
When Angelina was asked how she recognised the figure, and if
she had seen it all in her dream, she replied that she had seen it all,
but that she had particularly noticed the pigeon, which was a small
detached spot, like a flying bird. Now the pigeon is very much more
apparent in Angelina's Fig. 6 than in its corresponding half which
gjgna Maria had looked at the day before, because the ink had not
stuck so well on the latter, and this left it doubtful whether the child
might not have picked out 6 instead of 9, not because the inversion
had really taken place, but because the pigeon on Fig. 6 chiefly
attracted her attention.1
After fresh shuffling, the pictures were taken to Sig"a Maria, who
chose Fig. 7, Position 4, which was the one most like the Fig. 9,
which she had really seen. She rejected Figs. 6 and 9 because of
the separate spots, which were just the pigeons on which Angelina
founded her recognition.
Experiment 48.—March loth. Evening.—During the present
sitting, the child was asleep in the room with me and Signa Maria. I
had prepared another set of 10 figures for to-night's experiment in
symmetrical pairs in the way already described, and chose No. 4
by lot.
[This experiment was a failure ; Angelina chose the wrong picture
next day. Signa Maria hesitated between Figs. 4 and 10, and finally
chose 10,]
1 It must also be observed that the number 9, written on the diagram, closely
resembles a 0 upside down, which might have made recognition through verbal
description possible in this case. —Ed.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 2S9
Experiment 49.—March 18th. 4.30 p.m.—For this night's experi
ment I had prepared 10 more figures in symmetrical pairs like the
others. They were numbered at random, and this time the number
was lightly traced in pencil on their backs. I found this change
necessary, because when I had gone downstairs the morning before to
discover Angelina's choice, I had found that she, impelled by a very
inopportune desire for symmetry, had arranged the pictures in order
before her, so as to bring the number in each into its right hand upper
corner, and this would not only embarrass the search for the true
position in case of success, but also interfere with the recognition ;
indeed this may well have been the cause of the last failure.
Fig. 10, Position 2 (with regard to the number on the back) was
chosen by hazard. The observation lasted 45 seconds. I asked Elvira
to invert the figure, making the top the bottom. To which she replied,
" All right, I understand perfectly. I have seen better this time, and
hope to succeed."
March 19th. 7.36 a.m.—Angelina had only just got up. Sig"a
Maria was still in bed ; she said she had not talked of the dream to
any one. Elvira communicated, said she had tried, and hoped, as
usual Angelina told Sig" Annetta that she had dreamt of a paper
with a blot upon it. I took the ten figures downstairs to her and
left her with Sig* Annetta. Five minutes after (I have since kept
account of the time the child spends in searching), Biga Annetta
called me. I found that Angelina had chosen Fig. 10, Position 4 (see
Plate EEL, Fig. VII.); the one observed [by Signt Maria], but turned
180 deg. instead of being specularly inverted as had been arranged.
The figure representing this inversion was Fig. 5 in Position 1, and
Sig* Annetta told me that Angelina had looked at and rejected it.
The latter said she recognised the figure by its whole appearance ; she
seemed disgusted and weary.
Sigo* Maria chose Fig. 2, Position 3 (see Plate III., Fig. VIII.),
which is the most like 10, except 5, its corresponding pair.
Experiment 50.—March 12th. Evening.—Elvira advised me not
to give the figure which had been observed to Angelina among the
others, but merely its corresponding half, till the child had had some
exercise. This method renders the success of the inversion rather
illusory, but it appeared worth while to adopt it provisionally.
After the observation of the picture, Signa Maria was shut into her
room with the same precautions as before.
March 20th. 7.55 a.m.—Sifp Annetta, whom I saw first, told me
her daughter had been indisposed in the night, and that therefore the
door had been opened. Angelina had also been restless and coughing.
Before the child was questioned, Elvira communicated as follows :—
290 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
"It is not my fault at all. I came three times in the night, and could
never succeed. The first time the child was furious, and I tried to
quiet her. When I came again she was awake with a cough, and
Maria was obliged to give her some medicine. The third time Maria
was ill, and I tried to help her, and so I let the dream go ; but it was
not my fault."
Experiment 51.—March 2lst. 4 p.m.—Elvira wrote that she had
no engagements for the coming night, and asked to be shown the new
picture. I had divided the pictures into two groups, in order to be
able to follow the advice Elvira had given me the day before yester
day. The five original figures, so to speak, from which the one to be
observed was to be selected, were in one group, and the corresponding
five inverted ones in the other. The latter were to be given to
Angelina to select from after the dream, and were not to be seen by
Maria ; the original five were to be shown to Maria for recognition, or
rather for non-recognition.
In view of the fact, so carefully studied by Binet,1 that distraction
of the attention of the normal personality increases the perceptive
powers of the sub-conscious personality [and considering that], even if
the diversion of the medium's attention during observation should not
improve the results, it would be a new obstacle for the partisans of the
fraud theory to overcome, I determined to adopt the plan.
I chose one of the original figures and its position (2) by lot. (The
numbers in this case and for the future are on the back of the drawing).
I talked to Signa Maria during the 40 seconds' observation. Directly
after, she said she did not know what she had been looking at. I
forgot to tell Elvira to invert the picture.
March llnd. 4 p.m.—I was not able to go in the morning, and
had little hope that the child would remember the picture, even if she
had dreamt of it.
Signa Maria told me that the child had been vexed at my non
appearance in the morning, because she had dreamt of the picture so
plainly, and now would not be rewarded as usual by a sweetmeat.
She was fetched from school, and Sig* Annetta gave her the five
inverted pictures, while I gave the five originals to Sign" Maria.
Angelina was alone ; Signa Maria and I together in the next room.
The latter said it was no use looking, for she remembered nothing.
However, she selected a figure, which was not only the wrong one, but
also bore the least resemblance to the right.
1 Binet. Let alterations de la pertonnaliti. International Scientific Library,
Paris, 1892.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 291
After a short time, Siga Annetta called me, and Angelina showed
me Fig. 2, Position 3, which is the inverted impression of the picture
that had been observed, but turned through 90 degrees.
Experiment 52.—I went back in the evening with a new series of
pictures. Till now I had separated the symmetrical pairs of pictures
with a paper-knife. This time, after doubling them together, I cut off
a narrow strip, including the crease, with a ruler and pocket-knife,
thus making it impossible to discover on which side the crease—i.e.,
the axis of symmetry—had been. I took care to allow for the loss of
the narrow strip, and to leave the halves exactly square. I did this
on the three following occasions also.
This time Angelina was in bed and asleep in the room where
Sig"4 Maria and I communicated with Elvira and the observation took
place ; but from her position she could not have seen the figure even if
she had been awake.
No. 5 of the primary figures was chosen by lot The observation
lasted 35 seconds, and I diverted Sig"a Maria's attention by talking
and by singing a favourite air of hers. When it was over I again
noticed that the picture was No. 5, Position 1.
I asked Elvira if she had seen enough, and if she would turn the
figure upside-down. I also asked her to explain why the last picture
had been rotated 90 deg. She replied, " I have seen quite well ; and
you told me nothing about last night's picture, so I turned it in that
way."
Signa Maria went to her room without having uttered a word with
regard to the experiments, and I sealed her in with all the previously
described precautions.
March 23rd. 8 a.m.—Sig,la Maria was still in her room, and
Angelina had only just risen, having waked at 7.30. I went up to
Sig"a Maria's room, and found all intact. Elvira wrote as usual, " I
have tried," etc.
While I was upstairs I heard Siga Annetta questioning Angelina
about her dreams, and the latter replied that she had dreamt of
blotted paper. I then carried down the five inverted pictures to the
child, and returning gave the five original ones to Signa Maria. Sign*
Maria first said she remembered none of them, but on further examina
tion chose Fig. 2, Position 2 (see Plate III. Fig. X), which was not the
one observed, but perhaps the most like it. I must remark that this
time I had taken pains to make the figures much alike in type and
size. Signa Maria's reason for rejecting Fig. 5 was that it had a dark
round spot on a clearer background, low down towards the left (with
regard to its position when observed), and that as a whole it was too
much rounded.
292 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
In 10 minutes Siga Annetta called me down. Angelina showed
me Fig. 1, Position 1 (see Plate TII., Fig. IX), which corresponded
exactly to the observed figure and was inverted as pre-arranged.
Experiment 53.—About 4 p.m., I returned to the house. Elvira
having consented to another trial, Fig. 2, Position 4, were chosen by lot
from a new batch of five original figures. The revolution was to be
from right to left this time, and Elvira did not promise success, as it
was the first time she had turned a picture in this direction.
[On account of the time of day, no blockade was possible, bet
Angelina was watched by Siga Annetta. This experiment failed,
though Elvira wrote that she " had tried."]
Experiment 54.—March 25th, 4 p.m.—Angelina had for several
days had a slight ailment in her eyes, enough to cause painful
inflammation. I asked Elvira if we should defer the experiment, as
deep sleep was necessary, but she replied that, in her opinion, we
should try all the same. So the observation was made while I
conversed with Signa Maria.
March 26th. 7.43 a.m.—Siga Annetta told me that Angelina had
been crying in the night from the pain in her eyes. Signa Maria was
still in bed. On communicating with Elvira, she wrote, " I fear a com
plete failure, not through my fault, but on account of the child. Ask
her, however, but I promise nothing good." She added, " It would be
well to rest two or three days, till she is better."
'When the child was questioned, she said she had not dreamt of
anything.
As circumstances continued unfavourable, I was unable to go on
with this series of dream pictures. From the little I have been able
to do, it results that dreams of figures without alteration, and also
rotated in their own plane, may be said to have succeeded ; while
specular inversion has given inconclusive results.
Resumption op Scenic Dreams.
On April 1st, when Angelina was better, Elvira announced (by
automatic writing) that in three or four days we should be able to
recommence the dreams.
Experiment 55. April 5th.—I asked her if she believed we could
again try the transference of images from Angelina to Signa Maria
in the waking state, which had been interrupted. She replied that
on the contrary we had better return to the dreams, adding that it
would be necessary to begin over again, i.e., with the dreams of
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 293
animated scenes. I therefore proposed a scene for the next night
which Elvira accepted with pleasure, because, said she, "It amuses the
child." But when 1 went next day, at 2.30 p.m., to sec Sig1"i Maria,
she told me she had forgotten to question the child who was now at
school. Elvira said she had tried in vain in the night, l«ecause a
stranger had slept with Angelina,—a circumstance unknown to me,
and which Sigoa Maria had not meant to tell me. A neighbour had
been prevented from sleeping in her own house.
Experiment 56. April 6th.—I proposed that Elvira should make
Angelina dream that she and Signa Maria were on the Campanile of
fs. Marco at Venice, and that she should notice that the pigeons usually
flying round were green. (This at least is what is written in my
journal.)
Elvira answered, " Very well, but there must be no strangers ;
then I promise to succeed."
From Experiment 56 [to the end of the present series], Angelina
slept with Sig* Annetta, and Signa Maria slept alone in another room.
Angelina related the dreams to Siga Annetta directly after waking,
and before communicating with Signa Maria. Sign Annetta has since
told me that, unless some one was ill, she always locked herself in
with Angelina.
April 1th. Evening.—Signa Maria said that Angelina had dreamt
of being on a high Campanile with her ; she did not mention that of
S. Marco. She saw beautiful large birds (she did not say pigeons),
with feathers of lovely blue.
On my remarking that the blue colour was a mistake, because I
had arranged that the birds should be green, Signa Maria said I was
wrong, and that she remembered I had said blue. Elvira wrote
that Signa Maria was right. As I could not remember very clearly,
and as I know that Elvira's memory is far better than mine, I
yielded.
In the present dream there are two points which tend to show that
it was not produced by verbal suggestion. The first is the non-recog
nition of the Campanile of S. Marco, a thing compatible with the real
vision of the scene, on the part of a child who had seen it only from
below ; all the more that in her dream she was not looking at the
panorama below (in which case she might easily have recognised
Venice), but at the coloured pigeons. The second point is that she
did not grasp the idea of pigeons, but perceived rather a strangely
transformed image of them, which she did not recognise as pigeons.
Experiment 57.—I proposed the following dream for the next
night :—Angelina goes to a cellar with Siga Annetta, who draws some
294 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
wine, and going away forgets to turn the tap. Angelina remains in
the cellar while the wine runs out, and amuses herself with paddling
in it.
Elvira added, " If you like, I will prolong the dream, and add
something." To which I consented.
April 8th. 2.15 p.m.—Signa Maria told me that Angelina had
dreamt of going with Siga Annetta down some steps into a dark
place (she did not say cellar), where she saw the keg that stood in the
yard. Siga Annetta drew some wine, and did not close the tap
properly. A quantity of wine ran out over the ground, and Angelina
said she had bathed her hands and feet in it, but saw she had spotted
her blue frock, and became frightened lest Sign8, Maria should scold
her. In fact, she dreamt that the latter not only scolded, but
whipped her. This dream, which Siga Annetta also recounted without
the least difference, was, therefore, carried out with precision, with the
little tragi-comic introduction of the whipping, which was the addition
Elvira had promised. But it must not be said that Elvira had
departed from her rule of never producing impressions injurious to the
child, because, if one reflects, this was a little educative lesson.
Berillon could not have given a better, considering the age of the
subject.
This dream bears no trace of verbal suggestion, but it does bear
traces of a direct sensorial perception of the scene. There being no
underground cellars in Venice, and none in Signa Maria's house at
Padua, nor in any other house known to Angelina, the latter has no
idea of them, though she may have of cellars above ground. Now I
had simply said cellar, and Angelina would naturally have pictured
what she knew. Instead, we find in the dream an image of new
surroundings, for which she had not even a name. Angelina's assertion
that the keg was the one in the yard is evidently the result of an
association of ideas.
Elvira asked me if I objected to additions to the dreams. I said,
no, provided she omitted nothing.
Experiment 58.—I wished to examine the effect on Angelina of
dreams involving the use of powers she did not yet possess, so I
proposed that Elvira should make her dream she could read, and that
she actually read in a book a little story which I invented on the spot.
I asked Elvira if this were possible; she replied that she could
promise nothing, but would try.
April 9th. Evening.—Sig^ Maria told me that Angelina (who
continued to sleep with Siga Annetta) had on waking told the latter
that she could read, and that she had read something in a book, but
could not remember what. She was so convinced that she could read,
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 295
that directly she had risen she took a paper, and imitating a person
reading, repeated disconnected phrases. And later on, seeing me at a
distance in a public place, she insisted on being brought to me to give
me the important news.
Sig1 Annetta confirmed the dream (she had not Wen present at the
scene out of doors), and told me that at first she had believed it was a
little trick of Angelina's to get a book bought for her to play with ; but
that she had not asked for one.
Elvira wrote, " You must excuse me if it was not all done ; it was
the first time. I hope to succeed in the future."
Perhaps the strength of Angelina's new impression interfered with
her perception of the imaginary contents of the book.
Experiment 59.—I asked Elvira if she would repeat this experi
ment She said, " Yes, I shall be pleased to exercise myself, and then
if I cannot satisfy you with the writing, I can with the dreams. Tell
me the dream, that I may go."
Siga Annetta gave me some book, and turning over the leaves at
hazard, I found the odd word Guglielmeide written in large characters.
I showed it to Sig1" Maria, and asked Elvira to make the child read it
in a dream so that she should remember and recognise it in the book.
The child was all this time in bed and asleep, and I carried thft
book away with me.
April 1Oth. 3 p.m.—Siga Annetta told me that Angelina had again
dreamt of being able to read, and of reading a word in large letters
in a book. Signa Maria knew nothing about it, as she had not ques
tioned the child.
I sent to fetch Angelina from school, and showed her the book
open at the page where the word Guglielmeide was written, and told
her to look for the word she had seen in her dream. As I saw she
was too timid to pay attention, I sent her away with Siga Annetta
and the book. They soon returned, and Angelina showed me the
word Guglielmeide, but could not pronounce it. Consequently she
had not received an auditory impression of the word, and the dream
belongs to the purely visual category. There is no other word in
large letters on the page I showed to the child, and consequently there
is no proof that she did not recognise it by its size rather than by its
separate letters.
From these experiments, which unfortunately were not followed
up, I drew a hope, which will certainly be realised later on by others,
of the possibility of teaching reading by means of telepathy.
Experiment 60.—April Wth. 3 p.m.—Wishing to try again to
se a dream of something unknown to Sigln4 Maria, but known to
296 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
me, I proposed to Elvira, while she was manifesting herself by means
of a sensory hallucination to Sig"" Maria in her trance state, to show
the child in a dream the gasworks at Rovigo, which, as they were
being re-arranged, offered special details entirely unknown to Signa
Maria, but well known to me, as I was taking part in the work.
April 12th. 3.30 p.m.—Angelina had gone to school before seeing
Signa Maria, who had risen later, and therefore did not know the
result of the dream.
Siga Annetta told me that the child had dreamt of being in the
country, in a house without a roof, where there was much smoke, and
dirty black men hurrying about. Angelina attributed the burning in
her eyes to this (she was still suffering from pustules in them). She
was sent for, but I could obtain no more details, even by leaving her
alone with Siga Annetta.
This result, although satisfactory from the point of view of the
telepathic perception in dreams of ideas drawn from the mind of SigM
Maria, does not demonstrate the perception of ideas extraneous to it,
because, though the dream was of gasworks, they had no characteristic
belonging to those at Rovigo, unknown to Signa Maria.
Experiment 61.—April 13<A. 2.30 p.m.—Elvira wrote that she
would make Angelina dream during the next night. While I was
searching for a subject, Elvira sent Signa Maria to sleep, and during
the trance I proposed the following dream : Angelina is on the roof
playing with a cat ; several white mice appear, and the cat pursues
them. Elvira replied that the mice would do, but not the cat, as she
had a great objection to these animals. I then proposed to substitute
a dog.
April 1ith, about 6 p.m.—Sig"a Maria said that Angelina had told
a dream to Siga Annetta, but that she did not believe it had any con
nection with our experiments, because I had not proposed a dream the
day before. In fact, as Signa Maria was in a trance while I proposed
the dream, she could know nothing about it in the waking state. She
could only tell me a little of what Angelina had related. Siga Annetta
then related the dream ; it was absolutely identical with the pro
gramme.
Experiment 62.—When I returned later, Sigua Maria was already
in bed in the little room. Angelina also was in bed and asleep in the
next room. Elvira manifested herself by a sensory hallucination in
the trance. I proposed the following dream : Angelina was to see
three women with sewing-machines enter the house .about mid-day,
each carrying a sewing-machine, which they were to offer to
Sign* Maria for sale. Signa Maria, finding them rusty and out of
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 207
order, refuses them, and the three women go away angry to the iron
bridge (visible from the house) and throw the machines into the
water, grumbling.
As I could not seal up Signa Maria's door, I begged Sig" Annetta
to watch that no communication took place between her and Angelina.
She replied that she was always on the watch, ami that usually
Angelina related her dream directly she opened her eyes.
A/lril loth. 4 p.m. (about).—Sig1ni Maria did not know that
Angelina had dreamt at all, and having been in a trance when the
dream was proposed, was also unaware that any dream had been pro
posed at all.
Sig" Annetta told me that the child had related a dream about
three women coming to sell sewing-machines ; she had dreamt that
Sig08 Maria refused to buy, not for the reasons above stated, but
because she said she had no money. The rest of the dream followed
the programme exactly. Angelina had afterwards insisted that when
the water was low, the three machines must be fished up ; a new
example of the way she objectifies these dreams. The alteration in
the reason given for not buying the machines is a natural one to occur
to the child, who is used to having her own childish demands put
off with this excuse. Elvira agreed that this was the reason of the
alteration. This is the only time in the course of the experiments
in which it is clearly indicated that the alteration was produced by
the percipient.
Experiment 63.—When Elvira manifested in the trance, I proposed
the following dream for the next night .— Angelina was to be a man,
and to ply the trade of a boatman at Venice. Four English people,
two gentlemen and two ladies, were to come up, with red guide-books.
They would explain by gesture that they wanted to go to the Lido,
and Angelina would accompany them. Elvira added, laughing (we
are speaking, of course, of the hallucinatory Elvira, seen only by
Sigoa Maria), that the people would wear veils, as they usually do.
April l6th. Evening.—Signa Maria was ill in bed with a head
ache. Her mother, to whom I spoke first, told me that Angelina had
dreamt of being a boatman. She said she had rowed to the Lido
with three gentlemen in gloves and veils, who were carrying red
books. When they got to the Lido, one of them fell into the water.
Sign Annetta then asked, " Did these gentlemen come from England
(Inghilterra) ? " Angelina, not understanding the question, replied,
"No; they were not on land (in terra), they were on the water."
Sig" Annetta said that the child accompanied her story by mimicking
the gestures made in rowing, showing how vivid had been the motor
image.
298 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
Experiment 64.—I wished to place Angelina in a dream state still
more unlike her real one, so I proposed to Elvira to make her dream
that she was grown up and was being married. I left Elvira to
develop this theme.
April 17th. Evening.—Siga Annetta said that that morning
Angelina had told her that she had dreamt she was as tall as
Signa Maria, and that she was at home in the parlour at Venice.
Many people were present, and she had a white veil over her head,
and was leaning on the arm of a gentleman, who put a ring on her
finger. Siga Annetta, who, as usual, knew nothing of the proposed
dream, said, " Then you were dreaming of your own wedding." To
which Angelina ingenuously replied, " If it was my own wedding,
when shall I find my sweetheart 1 "
gigna Maria, who had also been ignorant of the proposed dream
and had not been present when the child related it, could not on this
account either confirm or correct her mother's statement.
It cannot be said that this dream was a resuscitation of habitual
waking ideas, for Angelina in her short life had never seen a wedding.
Experiment 65.—When Elvira manifested during Sign" Maria's
trance, I proposed that she should try to show Angelina some place
known to herself (Elvira), but unknown to us all ; so that if Angelina
could afterwards describe it, we could identify it when Elvira told us
where it was. She accepted, and expressed some hope of success.
April 18th. 4.15 p.m.—Siga Annetta told me that the child had
been restless and probably feverish during the night. She had
questioned her, and the child had said irritably that she had nothing
to tell.
Experiment 66.—I proposed yesterday's programme over again.
April 19</t. Evening.—Siga Annetta, while her daughter was
absent, told me that Angelina had dreamed of being in a Piazza, that
is, in a Campo (at Venice the Piazze are called Campi), which was
crossed by a pathway, on each side of which the ground was paved.
In a corner of the Campo there was a church with rough walls and close
to this the theatre.
Signa Maria, who^n I afterwards questioned, said she had not heard
about the dream.
Elvira (in automatic writing) asked me if I was satisfied with the
dream. As I did not in the least recognise the spot Angelina hiwi
dreamt of, I asked Elvira where it was, and she replied :
" I am ready to tell you as much as I can. The place is Adria. ;
the Piazza, the Piazza Garibaldi ; the theatre is the Orpheus."
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 299
Dr. E. "That is good, but the important thing for me would be
to know if Maria may not have known the place by dfscription or
otherwise."
Elv. "Well, I am very sure that it is not the sort of place they
would make a picture of, so I am quite certain Maria has not seen
it. Please tell me to-night's dream, for I have no time to stop."
As I have only been to Adria once as an infant, I could not recognise
the description, but I found a friend who knows the little town well, and
he told me that the description corresponded exactly with the reality.
I cannot share the opinion of Elvira that Signa Maria could not
have known the place, because prints and photographs of it may exist,
or she may, perhaps subconsciously, have heard it described. Yet this
is not probable, for Signa Maria reads very little, and lives an extremely
retired life. She herself is naturally certain that she knew nothing of
Adria ; but that proves nothing, because the knowledge may have
existed outside the field of consciousness.
Experiment 67.—I asked Elvira to repeat the experiment of making
Angelina dream of a place of which neither she nor Signa Maria knew
anything, and, if possible, of one which the latter could not even
indirectly have heard of. [This subject was proposed immediately
before Signa Maria went to bed.]
April 20th. 3 p.m.—Signa Maria was ill, and her mother told me
that Angelina was also indisposed and restless during the night, and
that she did not relate any dream in the morning.
Experiment 68.—Elvira manifested in the trance, and said that the
child's state had prevented her acting. The proposed dream was put
off till the coming night.
April 2lsl. Evening.—Angelina had told Siga Annetta in the
morning that she had dreamt of being in the same place as before,
but on the other side, where there was a beautiful palace with steps
adorned with flowers. Inside there were gentlemen dressed in black,
who gave her sweetmeats. As before, I was completely unable to.
identify the place.
Elvira wrote :—" I transported her to Adria. What I showed her
was the hotel of the Stella d'Oro. But I warn you that I showed her
the inside, not the outside, of the place, and if you enquire, ask what
the staircase of the hotel is like, and the name of the manager. I will
tell it you if you like. His name is Panciera, but the people at Adria
call him Panciotti."
Dr. E. " You have chosen ill ; Maria may easily have heard a
public place like that described without knowing or remembering that
she had,"
300 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
Next day I enquired, and found that the hotel of the Stella d'Oro
really existed, and had been managed by a man named Panciera, nick
named Panciatti (not Panciotti), but that it had been closed for some
time. Besides, the hotel was not really in the Piazza, but in a street
which strikes off it on the side mentioned in the dream, i.e., opposite
the church and the theatre.
I have not yet succeeded in learning anything about the staircase
with flowers ; but Angelina may have dreamt of the potted shrubs
so often seen on the staircases of hotels.
Experiment 69. — April 22nd. 4.15 p.m. — Siga Annetta told me
that Angelina had been restless in the night, and in the morning had
said she had dreamt of a place like the Prato delle Valle (a piazza in
Padua), without being able to give more details.
After Elvira had, in automatic writing, exhorted me to patience as
a means of success, she added, " I came to make the dream last night
as usual, although you gave me no directions yesterday."
Experiment 70.—April 23rd. Evening.—Siga Annetta, in the
presence of her daughter, told me that last night Angelina had
dreamt of being in a large room with many people. There was no
furniture but chairs and benches. Siga Annetta asked her if it was
like a theatre, and she said that the seats were like. Angelina
insisted that she knew where the place was, and Signa Maria said that
when they were out that day Angelina persisted in wishing to take
her to the place she had dreamed of, and that when they were passing
through the Piazza dei Signori she pointed to the entrance of the Via
Maggiore, saying that that was the way to the place.
We communicated with Elvira and told her all this ; and I asked
her what place she had shown the child. She replied, "Yes, the child
is right ; I showed her all that. But I will tell you nothing to-night,
nor make a new dream, but will deepen the impression so that
Angelina may explain herself better, and to-morrow, at two o'clock,
you will know something more. But another time after such a dream,
you must take her at once where she wants to go, even a long way, or
into the country."
From what Signa Maria had said, I had concluded that the hall or
theatre belonged to the Circolo Filarmonico, which is in the Via,
Maggiore. I said nothing, and I was proved to be wrong.
Experiment 71.—April 24th. 4 p.m.—Angelina had had the same
dream, and said in my presence that she could find her way to the
place. I asked Siga Annetta to go out with her and accompany her
wherever she pleased.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 301
After they had gone, I put myself in rapport with Elvira, and
asked her to explain the difficulty about the exact place of the hotel
of the Stella d'Oro, and whether the child had meant that the stair
case was painted with flowers, or adorned with pots of flowers.
Elvira replied, "No, the poor child was right, but could not explain
herself. The hotel is not in the Piazza, but in a street opposite the
theatre. The staircases are not painted nor adorned with flowers,
but the steps are of open work ; that was what she could not
explain."
Dr. E. " Then they are of iron, because marble is not treated so."
Elv. " But it is the front of the steps which is of open work, not
the part where you put your foot."
Dr. E. " Are they iron 1 "
Elv. " Certainly not, and not marble either. I think it is a kind
of composition, unless they may be iron after all, but coloured very
light." i
When Elvira's communication was ended, I asked Sig* Annetta to
come up and tell me about her walk. She said that Angelina had
at once begun to hurry, and to look for something. Siga Annetta, on
account of a pain in one leg, could not keep up with her, so that
Angelina was always in front, and as excited as a dog searching
for his home. She often looked up at the walls of the houses.
Big" Annetta, who is not a native of Padua, could not tell me
the names of certain small streets through which they passed, but
she made me understand the way they had taken perfectly. At the
end of the Via S. Agnese, Angelina remarked certain windows adorned
with flowers, and said that that was the house whose inside she had seen.
Sig1 Annetta took the number of the house, 1,458, and not perceiving
the inscription over the bell, went into a neighbouring shop to ask.
She was told that it was the office of the Sociela Fiiarmonica. (This,
as will be seen, is a little mistake of Siga Annetta's). When
Sig* Annetta asked the child how she had found the house, she said
she had gone the way she went in her dream, but that then it was
night, for the lamps were lighted. She said also that they were
playing in the house, but not singing. I went at once over all the
ground and found No. 1,458, which had an inscription over the bell
PhUodramatic Club of Padua. Tt is not a Philharmonic Society, as
Sig1 Annetta had mistakenly said. This recognition of a house, the
internal arrangements of which are evidently those seen by Angelina,
1 I found out about this later. The steps have no peculiarity, but the balustrade
is of marble or cement, with ornaments. On the other hand, Elvira gave me much
information later about the outer and inner appearance of the hotel, its proprietor,
«c, and I found it for the greater part correct.
2 a
302 , Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
and where they play, but do not sing,1 is interesting from a double
point of view. Firstly, because none of us were consciously aware of
the existence of a Philodramatic Society in that place ; and, secondly,
because, as may be seen by looking at a plan of Padua, the road taken
was very tortuous, and this shows that the child was not guided by the
idea of the definite position of the place to be found, but that she was
directed by successive recognitions along the road.
This is also proved by two other facts. The first is that, as
Siga Annetta said, Angelina went on looking here and there, as if to
recognise a path already gone over. The second is, that when Angelina
found herself the day before in the Piazza dei Signori she appeared
to have known the comparatively direct way to the Philodramatic
Club (which, as I have said, made me believe that the dream house was
the Philharmonic Club), and to-day, on the contrary, she did not know
the easy way, but took a very long and tortuous road, partly through
small streets, through which she has probably never passed.
In the evening I went back to Signa Maria to try for more accurate
information as to any possible knowledge existing in the family about
the Philodramatic Club ; or in Angelina about the streets she had
passed through. Signa Maria said she was completely ignorant of the
existence of the Club, adding that if she had ever passed through the
Via S. Agnese, she must have done so very seldom. Her mother was
certain of never having been through it, and both of them were sure
they had never taken Angelina to a place which was to them so far
out of the way. Angelina was never allowed to leave their house with
other persons. I must add that Signa Maria lives a very retired life,
that she hardly ever leaves the house except for domestic affairs.
Siga Annetta's topographical memory is exceptionally weak. After
seven years in Padua she only knows the principal streets.
[Various circumstances prevented my trying further experiments
for some time. But at last] it appeared that the dreams were to
begin again on October 2nd. Instead of which, another personality
manifested on that day, whom I will call B., and who up to the present
time had only helped with a series of experiments on the estimation
of intervals of time. She told me that she was now in a position to
undertake experiments of more importance, and asked my permission
to make an experiment the following night in place of the dream
promised by Elvira. Not wishing to refuse, but rather desirous to
know if she could do better than Elvira, I agreed ; and the following
day brought a result so interesting that I thought it wise to put off
the telepathic dreams for the present and to continue the study of the
1 1 found that there was a hall, which had been used just at the time for some
private representations.
Telepathic Dreavis Experimentally Induced. 303
strange and varied manifestations produced by B., and often by
Adriano, in Signa Maria's house at night. But this study, which aims
at discovering whether these manifestations occur in a supernormal
way, or are explicable by a simple alteration in the personality of
Signa Maria, must be related in another place.
Conclusion.
Taking all the facts here recorded into consideration, I think it
best for the present to lay no claim to the discovery of a new
phenomenon, but to ascribe the results attained to an agency now
known and undisputed—viz., telepathy—and I shall proceed to con
sider them from this point of view.
Duplication of the Agent.—Tn the course of the experiments here
described, the interesting fact is revealed that two personalities take
part in the action ;— first, the telepathic agent, who produces the tele
pathic transference of the picture, and, secondly, Signa Maria, so far
as sensorial, whose senses supply to the telepathic agent the picture to
be transferred. In the dreams of figures, the sensorial agent receives
the sensorial image, —which has to be transferred to the telepathic
agent,—shortly before transferring it. In the case of the scenic dreams,
the telepathic agent chooses from amongst the images already existing
in the recent or remote memory of the sensorial agent the one which
is best fitted for the operation he has to perform. As we have seen,
none of the present experiments demonstrate that the telepathic agent
has transferred images which he himself has directly perceived without
the intervention of the sensorial agent's normal senses. The experi
ments also showed the incapacity of the normal personality of Sign"
Maria for fulfilling the office of telepathic agent;—i.e., she is unable by
her own will to transfer images to the percipient telepathically.
I do not pretend to have discovered anything new, when I make a
distinction between the two personalities which unite for telepathic
action ; it is well known, on the contrary, that this fact is considered
fundamental not only by modern spiritualists, but by occultists in all
times and places, who, however, press its interpretation further. But
I think it useful to insist on this point for the sake of those who study
only the telepathic branch of psychical science ; because the recogni
tion of the existence of a special personality, producing the telepathic
action, affords some explanation of much that seems capricious in the
results of experimental telepathy, and warns the experimenter not to
neglect any means of putting himself into rapport with the telepathic
agent. If I had not been previously in rapport with the personality
called Elvira, and had not asked her aid, it is probable that I should
never have had an opportunity of observing a single telepathic dream.
2 a 2
304 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
Or if I had undertaken a series of experiments, putting her out of the
question, the proportion of successes might have been very small.
I maintain, then, that the existence of a telepathic agent,—whose
personality is not only distinct from the normal one of the sensorial
agent, but also differs from it in psychical faculty,—must be regarded as
the key to everything in this branch of experimental telepathy, if the
results are capable of any interpretation at all.
In order not to be misunderstood, I may point out that recognition
of the existence of the telepathic agent as a separate personality, does
not involve any hypothesis as to its nature ; it may be a psychical
product of the sensorial agent, or it may possess an independent exist
ence. Taking the word personality in the sense which modern
psychologists give to it—that is, a succession of states of consciousness,
discontinuous, perhaps, but held together by memory and the conscious
ness of the Ego—then Elvira is certainly a personality.
Influence of the States of the Sensorial Agent, of the Percipient, and of
the Telepathic Agent, upon the Results.
[For the success of the experiments, it appeared] that a profound
and tranquil sleep [on the part of the percipient] was, if not a necessary,
at least a most favourable condition, and that disturbance of body or
mind had a contrary effect. I find that out of 17 cases in which the
percipient was ill or agitated, only 5 were successes, i.e., 29 per cent. ;
while there are 49 among the other 53 (No. 55 excluded, for reasons
already stated), i.e., 92 per cent.
As for the sensorial agent, she was as a rule asleep at the time of
action, and consequently in the most favourable condition for telepathic
action. It would be interesting to know if, and how often, the influence
was exercised when Signa Maria was by chance awake, and with what
results. But on this point I have no data.
In 6 cases (Experiments 4, 23, 4.3, 50, 53, 67) Signa Maria's rest
was disturbed by physical causes, and in 1 case (Experiment 22) by
moral causes; and among these cases there was only one success (No.
43). But in 5 of them (Nos. 4, 22, 50, 53, 67) the percipient was also
disturbed in the night, so that these failures may be attributed to
her. There remain 2 cases (Nos. 23 and 43) in which the sensorial
agent was disturbed and the percipient was in her normal state, and of
these two cases, No. 43, though registered as an incomplete success, is
remarkable as having been a dream of a very difficult figure, executed
when the blockade was complete; the only mistake concerned the
rotation. But as the data are few and inexact, we cannot draw anv
conclusions worthy of note as to the influence of the state of the
sensorial agent upon the results.
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 305
It will not be out of place to consider the state of the sensorial agent
while the programme was being communicated to the telepathic agent.
Of the 16 experiments in which the programme was proposed to Elvira
while Sig^ Maria was in the trance, only one was a failure, and even
this may be accounted for by the severe indisposition of the percipient
during the night. Besides, of the 4 experiments with dreams of
figures, when Sign" Maria's attention was distracted during the observa
tion, there were 2 failures in 2 cases when Angelina was indis
posed, while the other 2 were successes, one of which was remarkable
for the vividness of the dream, which was remembered many hours
after waking, although the object dreamt of was a formless spot.
We may infer from this that telepathic action takes place more
easily when the image to be transferred remains outside the conscious
ness of the agent ; or it may be that the telepathic agent can execute
the transference of the image all the better for its slight adherence to
the personality of the sensorial agent. This is not only possible, but is
rendered probable by the remarkable fact that the transferred image
has a tendency to escape from the normal memory of the sensorial
agent later on.
Amnesia of the Sensorial Agent for Images Telepathicalfy Transferred.
The first experiences of this amnesia showed that it was not a
simple amnesia ; because if it had been complete, Signa Maria would
have been incapable of recognising even any approximation to the
figure,—she would have chosen one at hazard, happening to choose the
right one as often as chance permitted ; and if the amnesia were
incomplete, then her choice would have been restricted to a few
figures resembling the one observed, and therefore she would have
failed in her search less frequently, according to the law of chance ;
whereas what really happened was that she always chose one of the
similar figures, but never the right one.
We have to do, then, with two memories belonging to two strata
of consciousness—the normal memory, which recalls the observed
figure only approximately and directs the sensorial agent's attention
to those which resemble it, and a second memory, belonging to a
deeper stratum of consciousness, which preserves some clear mark
of recognition, but, with a view to non-recognition, exercises an
inhibitory action on the first. The inhibition does not relate to the
sensorial image, but to a judgment with respect to the time of
perception of the image, making it appear to be then seen for the first
time.
In many cases of scenic dreams, the recollection of the programme
endured sufficiently well for Signa Maria to observe differences between
300 Dr. G. B. Ermacora.
the dream and the programme afterwards. But I cannot tell whether
in these cases the normal memory may not have suffered some restric
tion. In another series of experiments lately commenced, I have
noticed a want of attention on the part of Sig,,a Maria's normal
personality, for, though she was awake, she was apparently under the
influence of a suggestion to pay no attention while I repeated the pro
gramme. Taking the facts together, it seems that a state of inatten
tion, as well as the somnambulic state, is favourable to telepathic
action, and we can discover a connection between them and the
amnesia already described.
We are able to suggest reasons why the amnesia is constant and
complete in the dreams of figures, while in the case of the scenic
dreams it only occurred in a partial way.
The pictures being quite new to Signa Maria, and being expressly
chosen as not lending themselves to an association of ideas, their
sensorial images did not find in the normal consciousness any co-ordi
nation, nor consequently any point of connection with pre-existing
images ; therefore when transferred to another stratum of consciousness
they naturally left no trace in the normal one. On the other hand,
the old images utilized in the scenic dreams, being connected by
innumerable strong links to the whole complex of the normal conscious
ness, were necessarily more easy to reproduce in another stratum than
if they had been transferred as they stood ; and if thus transferred,
they must necessarily have revived immediately in the normal
consciousness through the connecting links of association.
What the nature of the telepathic agent may be it is as yet impossible
to divine, but we shall have made a step forward to this discovery
when we can reckon up, not only the results of my few experiments,
but of the innumerable ones of the spiritists, for the telepathic
agents are the same as the personalities which the spiritists call spirits,
and which I have called mediumistic personalities. But if we cannot
say what they are, we can at least say what they are not.
Those who have no knowledge of mediumistic phenomena have long
been satisfied—and continue to satisfy themselves—with a confusion
of ideas which will probably become famous in the history of scientific
errors. They have declared that the mediumistic personality is the
same as that provoked by suggestion in somnambulism. My own
view is that the hypnotic personalities have no real existence, and are
neither new nor interesting. In the hypnotic state, the subject, being
better able to concentrate his attention, becomes a better actor,—that
is all ; but a few glasses of wine would produce the same effect. If
he believes himself to be the person he represents, that is no more
than it is said many actors can do. Consequently there is in this no
true change of personality, but only what Richet calls an dljtctitica
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. 307
Hon of types. It is a state of spontaneous dream of such intensity as
to become motor as well as sensory.
The spontaneous changes of personality, accompanied by alterations
of the mental faculties, of sensibility, and often of the pathological
condition, of which we have abundant examples, are more worthy of
the name, and must not be confounded with that just mentioned ;
because here the cause is deeper and the consequences more stable.
But even in these cases the new personalities have the general charac
teristics of the normal personality, without any fresh element, and thus
may be more justly regarded as mere alterations of the normal, or as
resulting from its disintegration, as Pierre J anet says.
I am aware that many modern spiritualists, unfamiliar with
psychology, confound these intelligences with those of another kind,
which they regard as belonging to discarnated spirits. But the
mediumistic personalities of which I now speak possess—besides a
personality of the normal human type—a series of faculties which the
latter does not possess, and are able to produce such manifestations
as are not only impossible to the normal human personality, but
are so inconceiveable to the latter as to be regarded a /iriori as
impossible.
Consequently, to confound the two is a palpable error. The
niediumistic personalities cannot be a product of disintegration,
because they contain a mass of new elements, and it would be nearer
the truth to consider them products of integration, as Mr. Myers says ;
or as manifestations in the sensory field of an entire order of psychical
activities usually excluded from it. Professor Boiracl proposes the
name of parapsychical phenomena for these supernormal psychical facts,
but the term hyper/lsychical is, perhaps, more appropriate.
When we reflect on the identity of the telepathic agents and the
mediumistic personalities, and the absolute difference between their
faculties and modes of action and those of the normal personality, a
partial conciliation between the opposing theories of spiritism and
telepathy seems possible. The spiritists believe that telepathy is
produced by discarnated spirits, or by living spirits which can
temporarily separate themselves from their bodies. The non-
spiritists who recognise telepathy, believe in some action between
brain and brain, and that certain arguments on which the spiritists
base their belief are false interpretations of phenomena produced
merely by telepathy between the living.
The idea of secondary or mediumistic personalities acting as
telepathic agents has the advantage of offering common ground to
the two opposing theories. Not only spiritists, but also telepathists,
1 Anruiies dts Science) Psyehiqwt, 1893, p. 341.
308 Dr. G. B. Ermticora.
should recognise that the true telepathic agent, in cases of this kind, is
not to be found in what is commonly called the human intelligence,
but that it forms part of an absolutely different kind of intelligence.
If this point is well considered, a great part of the divergence between
the two theories is eliminated.
The fact that on most occasions in spontaneous telepathy the figure
of the person supposed to send the message is seen, does not at all
indicate that such person is the agent. This view is borne out by the
experiments described above. In fact, the representation of either
the sensorial or the telepathic agent in the dreams was seen to be a
circumstance entirely extraneous to the production of the dreams ; or,
in other words, as the presence of the image of the sensorial agent
in no way indicated that it was the real agent, so also the absence of
that of the telepathic agent would not in the least signify that it was
not the real agent.
Summing up all the previous considerations, it seems to me that a
beginning of an explanation of telepathy, based solely on experience,
may be given by admitting the existence of telepathic agents, of a
nature unknown to us, but certainly different from the personalities
treated of in ordinary psychology. These agents, in consequence of a
voluntary or involuntary excitation coming from the sensorial agent,
transmit to a distance, by processes known to themselves, the ideas
they were charged to convey, or which of their own initiative they
judge it opportune to convey.
But experience teaches us something more, and that is that the
telepathic agent can induce the transference of ideas as well by the
will of the sensorial agent, when the percipient is unwarned,—for
instance, in the Verity case,—as by the will of the percipient, when the
personality of the sensorial agent remains entirely unconcerned with
the phenomenon,—as in the Stead case. Elvira shows that she can
not only act in the first way, as in the cases here described, but also
in the second. She did this in a series of experiments in telepathy
where Signa Maria was percipient by means of automatic writing, while
Angelina acted as sensorial agent, being awake, but unconscious of
what was happening. This series, though much less interesting, may
perhaps be described elsewhere.
[The above paper is translated and somewhat abridged from the
original Italian. For the more complete account, including further
theoretical discussions, readers are referred to Dr. Ermacora's Italian
article, which will shortly be published in the Biviela di Studi
Psichici.—Ed.]
P!a.te I
Platefl
Psychical Phenomena Bearing upon Spirit Control. 309
V.
SOME PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA BEARING UPON THE
QUESTION OF SPIRIT CONTROL.
By Charles Hill Tout,
Principal of Buckland College, Vancouver, B.C.
A wave of interest in psychical matters passing over our locality
about three years ago, due in part to the transit across our horizon of
a psychic star of some magnitude from the neighbourmg Western
States, enabled me to bring about the formation of a small body of
inquirers for the purpose of first-hand investigation into spiritistic
phenomena. A half-dozen of us arranged to meet twice a week. It
would be tedious to give in detail the results of our " sittings "; it will
be sufficient to say that our experience was of a very mild type.
Sitting in the dark as a rule, subjective lights in the form of luminous
vapour were occasionally seen by myself and one other member. I
was at first inclined to attribute these to our imagination, but as they
seem to be a matter of common experience in spiritistic circles, I sup
pose they may be regarded as having some sort of reality of their own,
and may perhaps be taken as evidencing incipient powers of clairvoy
ance in the seers.
The lady members of our circle, particularly a mother and her
daughter, were taken almost from the first sitting with spasmodic
twitchings and movements in the fingers and arms. Sometimes these
movements were very violent, causing them to slap and thump the
table with such force as to seriously bruise their fingers and hands.
Often we were obliged to withdraw their hands by main force from the
table,—the ladies being unable of themselves to do so,—or to place
aomething between their bands and the table to soften the effects of
the blows.
With the exception of these two ladies, none of the other sitters
were much affected on these occasions, though at times an almost
irresistible impulse came upon myself to imitate their actions ; but
though I occasionally allowed the impulse, at the suggestion of
the other sitters, to have full play, it never with me took the
bit between its teeth and got beyond my control. I could always
stop at once any movements in my limbs, or change the attitude of
my mind, by an effort of will. Almost from the first an overpowering
310 Charles Bill Tout.
drowsiness would come upon some of us, especially upon myself and
Miss G., the young lady who beat the table so violently. My head
would become as heavy as lead, and I sometimes had the greatest
difficulty in sitting in my chair. At times this stupor would get the
better of me, and my head would drop to the table, seemingly drawn
down to it by some' force in the table itself. After an interval of a
moment or two, T could sit up again. My spiritistic friends assured
me on these occasions that if I would give myself up to the influence
upon me I should pass into the trance state, and I think it possible
that I might have done so if I could have sufficiently subdued my very
wakeful critical faculty. But this I at this period found a great
difficulty in doing, and it was not till much later that I was able to
watch the effect of this influence upon myself and learn something of
its mode of action.
And now, in referring to my own experiences, if my remarks appear
to be egotistic and centre rather much in myself, this, I beg to say,
is due rather to the nature of my topic than to any desire on my part
that it should be so. Being ever wishful to test the theory of spirit
intervention and control, I dropped in one evening upon some friends,
professed " spiritualists " of many years' standing, and after a little
conversation we sat, myself, my friend and his wife, for manifestations.
After about half an hour I felt a strange sensation stealing over me.
I seemed to be undergoing a change of personality. I seemed to have,
as it w ere, stepped aside, and some other intelligence was now controll
ing my organism. I was merely a passive spectator interested in what
was beiug done. My second self seemed to be a mother overflowing
with feelings of maternal love and solicitude for some one. The very
features of my face seemed to be changing, and I was distinctly con
scious of assuming the look of a fond and devoted mother looking
down upon her child. I even inwardly smiled as I thought how ridi
culous I must be looking, but I made no effort to resist the impulse.
I now felt I wanted to caress and console somebody, and the impulse
was strong upon me to take my friend in my arms and soothe and
cheer him. I resisted the impulse for some time, but finally yielded to
it. In doing so, I had a distinct feeling of relationship to my friend.
After a little while I became myself again. My friend was confident
that I had been influenced by the spirit of his dead mother, as he had
had a distinct impression of her presence at the time, which very
probably accounts for the feeling of relationship I experienced, as well
as for my impersonation of the maternal character. I shall show
presently how very susceptible I became, under like conditions, to all
kinds of suggestion ; and if this fact be taken into consideration here,
I think it will adequately account for what took place without resort
ing to my friend's hypothesis.
PnyciticiU Phenoniemi Beariny upon Spirit Control. 311
However, I am bound to state as against this view that I after
wards learnt that he was in trouble and worry over his business, and
was in need of cheering and encouragement ; and that, moreover, a few
months later, a terrible calamity overtook him in the loss of two of
his children by drowning. The effect of this experience upon myself
w,s very curious too. For the rest of that evening and most of the
next day I experienced a most delightful sense of rest and content
ment, and a feeling of relief from the strain and worry of life, as if
somrbody else had taken the burden off my shoulders on to his own.
The night following this, I accepted an invitation tc be present at
a sitting held at the home of another believer in spiritism. This
gentleman's wife is mediumistic to a mild degree She sat
apart by herself, and the husband and I sat at a small table.
Presently, after a little singing which closed with the hymn
" Nearer, my God, to Thee," she asked me if any relative of mine had
died from lung trouble, as she was suddenly experiencing a great
difficulty and pain in breathing. She was sure, she said, that this
unusual impression was due to my presence among them. At first I
could remember no one belonging to me who had died or suffered
from lung trouble ; though, as a matter of fact, my father had
actually died from bronchitis and pleurisy some twenty years before.
My memory had gone back rather to my mother who had died since,
but from quite another cause. I mentioned the cause of my mother's
death and asked her if she thought it referred to that. But no, it
was not that ; " it was somebody who had passed away with lung
trouble." I now suddenly remembered my father's death and its
Muse, and acknowledged to her that my father had died from lung
trouble. At this she, or rather (as she expressed it), the influence
which she called my father, manifested satisfaction ; from which she
inferred that he was pleased to be recognised. I remembered too,
now, and noted as a curious coincidence, which may or may not mean
anything, that the hymn we had been singing when the impression
came upon her, viz., " Nearer, my God, to Thee,' had been a great
favourite with him. I mention this fact because at every subse
quent meeting, the singing of this hymn always produced in her when
we were both present together the same sensations ; and because of
the suggestive influence it had later upon myself.
My friends, of course, claimed that this occurrence was irrefragable
evidence of spirit manifestation ; but though there was some appear
ance of ground for their claim, I was still unable to regard what had
occurred as in any sense a satisfactory proof of spirit communion, or of
the persistence of my father's personality, and still less can I do so to
day 1 may add that I learnt through the medium that I was an object
of special care to my father, who was always actively overlooking my
312 Charles Hill Tout.
welfare and interests, and I received answers more or less satisfactory
to a number of questions I put with regard to future movements on
my part. But as the medium could only answer in the form of "yes "
and " no," somewhat after the fashion of the table, I could not
regard this as very important or conclusive.
A little time after this, at meetings where I met a greater number
of sitters, I began to manifest a phase of mediumship myself, or so the
sitters regarded it. I should also say that every medium I had so far
met had always informed me that I possessed mediumistic powers.
On one occasion a public medium of the Mrs. Piper type singled me
out from a mixed audience as a person of peculiarly mediumistic
temperament, stating that she saw me surrounded by a luminous
haze, which she interpreted as marking in me a particular phase of
mediumship. What this phase was 1 have now forgotton. I merely
mention the fact for what it is worth, and as possibly explaining, in
part, the events which happened later.
At one of these larger sittings, after the table had rapped out
answers to a series of questions put to it, confirming in part, and
contradicting in other instances, what we had been told on previous
occasions, the movement in the table began to subside, and the
influence began to centre in me. I may say here that this has been
my unvarying experience throughout the whole course of my observa
tions, that while the table is rapping out answers no one sitting at it
is affected or influenced ; although those of impressionable tempera
ment are liable at any moment, when the interest in the questions
and answers flags, to find the power centering in themselves.
On this particular occasion I was affected to an unusual degree,
experiencing violent twitchings in my limbs, and sensations of
painful chilliness that made my teeth chatter again. I sat, as I
always did now, passively waiting for what might transpire. All
sorts of impulses seemed to be moving me, and I noticed how
susceptible I was becoming to the slightest, even half-realised
suggestion offered by the course of my own thoughts, or by the chance
remarks made by the other sitters. I presently felt myself being
drawn, as it seemed to me, towards the floor on the left side of my
chair. I yielded to the influence and fell prostrate out of my chair on
to the floor with considerable force ; and though the others thought I
must have hurt myself, I certainly felt no inconvenience from the fall.
I lay groaning for a little while and then got up and sat in my chair
again.
Some one now suggested that we should sing, and this being done,
I immediately became affected by the music, which moved uie in a
very extraordinary manner. I fancied myself realising the whole
scene clearly ;—in a great cathedral I seemed to be the presiding priest
Psychical Phenomena Bearing upon Spirit Control. 313
At the close of a great function pronouncing the benediction. I
appeared to be looking down from a great height upon the congrega
tion and, lifting my hands, I went through the form of blessing them.
It w ill be observed in all these phases or states that I seemed to be
two individuals,— one my ordinary, critical, observant self, closely
watching what took place in and around me, the other the character
that seemed to be personating itself through me. Presently^with a
change in the music, the scene changed and I now became an operatic
singer. I sing tenor a little, but am not, strictly speaking, a musical
person. But now I seemed to have a perfect control and mastery
over my voice, and I sang with impassioned tones several notes above
my normal compass pleading and gesticulating to some invisible but
felt female presence iu the air above me. I have no recollection of
the words I uttered, I was carried away and intoxicated with the
passion I felt. I stretched my arms aloft, invoking the presence
I felt, but could not realise, above me. There were moments
during this phase when I lost consciousness of myself and surround
ings.
The singing of the others ceasing, the scene again abruptly
changed. I say abruptly, for this exactly expresses the suddenness o.
the change. In going over the events of this evening the next day
I was struck with this, and being familiar with the abrupt changes some
time produced in the hypnotic by the varying suggestions of his operator,
accounted for my own sudden change of character in the same way.
And I do not doubt that, of the dozen or more personalities I
characterised that night, every one was due to a suggestion of my own
mind, or to something in my immediate environment.
But to proceed. After what I have described took place, some one
suggested more music, as the influence seemed to work upon me better
under music, and the hymn " Nearer, my God, to Thee " was started.
Before the first verse was finished, I began to experience strange sen
sations. I stood up and began to sway to and fro, and soon lost all
sense of my surroundings. I seemed to be far away in space. The
feelings of distance and remoteness from all other beings were very
marked, and a sense of coldness and loneliness oppressed me terribly.
I seemed to be moving, or rather to be drawn downward, and presently
felt that I had reached this earth again ; but all was strange and
fearful and lonely, and I seemed to be disappointed that I could not
attain the object of this long and lonely journey. I felt I was looking
for some one, but did not seem to have a clear notion of whom it was, and
as the hopelessness of ray search and the fruitlessness of my long journey
forced itself upon me, I cried out in my wretchedness and misery. I
felt I could neither find what I wanted nor get back from whence I
had come. My grief was very terrible, and I should have fallen to the
314 Charles Hill Tout.
ground but that the other sitters had gathered round me, and some
of them held my hands.
Just at this moment, the lady who had experienced the oppression
on her lungs at the first singing of this hymn, made the remark,
which I remember to have overheard, " It's his father controlling him,"
and I then seemed to realise who I was and whom I was seeking. I
began to be distressed in my lungs and should again have fallen, if
they had not held me by the hands and let me back gently upon the
floor. As my head sunk back upon the carpet, I experienced dreadful
distress in my lungs and could not breathe. I made signs to them to
put something under my head. They immediately put the sofa
cushions under me, but this was not sufficient,—I was not raised
high enough yet to breath easily, and they then added a pillow. I
have the most distinct recollection of the sigh of relief I now gave as
I sank back like a sick, weak person upon the cool pillow.
I was in a measure still conscious of my actions, though not of my
surroundings, and I have a clear memory of seeing myself in the
character of my dying father lying in the bed and the room in which
he died. It was a most curious sensation. I saw his shrunken hands
and face, and lived again through his dying moments ; only now I
was both myself,—in some indistinct sort of way,—and my father,
with his feelings and appearance.
Presently the sense of loneliness came over me again. I seemed
to be all alone, and wanted and cried out for my son, that is for
myself. I continued in great distress, though the others assured me
that my son was there present. I suppose the suggestion took effect,
as I presently seemed to be holding and fondling myself as the son I
came to speak with. I seemed to be at the same time both my
father and myself, his son. We communed together and comforted
each other, and all the little misunderstandings of the old days were
made clear ; and I made him understand that as a man and a father
myself, I was now better able to appreciate his attitude towards n-e
in the past. As a boy, I had always regarded him as very harsh and
had no warm feelings for him, and it seemed as if the knowledge on
his part of this fact had made him restless and unhappy ever since
his death, and had, through the singing of this favourite hymn of
his, brought him back to this sphere again. After this I presently
came to myself and got up again, and in a little while readily
assumed or impersonated several other characters before the meeting
broke up.
With regard to this strange impersonation of my father in his
dying moments, I think the suggestion made through the remark I
overheard, that it was my father controlling me,—coupled with the
prior suggestion conveyed through the singing of the hymn which
P&ychimi Phenomena Bearing upon Spirit Control. 315
had now become associated in my mind with my father's personality,—
sufficiently and convincingly accounts for all that took place, without
calling in the actual presence of my father's spirit self. The peculiar
manner in which the details of the scene worked themselves out I can
fully account for in my own mind. The peculiar feelings of loneliness,
the chilly vastness, the tracklessness of the surrounding space, and the
fact that I could not find the object of my search, together with the
sense of the hopelessness, the uselessness of my efforts,—all sprang
from a story I had heard read aloud many years ago, and which took
a great hold upon my imagination. It was a ghost story from the
ghost's point of view, and told of the return of a restless spirit to the
earth and to the scenes of its former existence ; the strangeness and
intense disappointment it felt at not being able to make itself known
to the loved ones of its past life, &c., itc.
The other details relating to the imaginary conversation are also
what would be likely to take place if such a thing as my father's
return in spirit were possible, and therefore what would most likely
take place if I could be made to believe he were present with me.
For often of late years, when I have felt that my children misunder
stood the motives which prompted certain conduct on my part towards
them, my thoughts have involuntarily gone back to my own youth and
training, and I have frequently longed that my father might be alive,
that I might make him feel that I understood and appreciated him
better now and would gladly seek his advice and counsel in the
training of my own children. And in the same way I might, if it
were needful, adequately account for all the salient features of the
other impersonations.
While seeking in no way—in thus accounting for these experiences
of mine by the natural workings of my own subconscious self—to
deny that we may under certain conditions and circumstances be
influenced by intelligences outside ourselves, I cannot admit that my
own experience, at any rate, is to be accounted for in this manner.
I know myself—and my susceptibility, even under normal conditions,
to suggestion in all sorts of forms, not necessarily verbal,—so well
that no alternative remains to me but to believe that what I did was
dne simply to every-day suggestion in one form and another. Building
and peopling chateaux en Espagne was a favourite occupation of mine
in my earlier days, and this long-practised faculty is doubtless a
potent factor in all my characterisations, and probably also in those of
many another full-fledged " medium." At any rate I hope I have
made it clear that before we can admit that phenomena such as I have
described are due to the influence or presence of disembodied spirits,
that is, discarnate men—as is commonly done,—the personal equation
that here manifests itself so strongly under the dramatising faculty
316 Charles Hill Tout.
which we all possess in a much greater degree than is commonly sup
posed, and which is very active in strongly imaginative temperaments
such as mine, must be eliminated. And when this is intelligently and
rigorously done, I venture to think that a very large proportion of
cases now attributed to spirit control will be adequately explained
without resorting to any such occult agency.
In conclusion, let me say that I have not written this hurried and
fragmentary account of my experiences to establish any theory of my
own, or to run a tilt against over credulous spiritists. My purpose has
been simply to point out how liable we are in these as in other
matters to be the victims of self-deception ; and how guardedly and
critically we should receive all evidence of this kind. So strongly do
I feel in this matter myself that I would personally refuse to accept
phenomena of a vastly more startling nature than any that have come
under my observation or that I have experienced as, in any sense, evi
dence of spirit control, unless the whole character and antecedents of
the medium were thoroughly known and were such as to render an
explanation of the kind I have given wholly inadmissible and out of
place. And as it is of the very essence of mediumship ex hypothesi
that it be impressionable and therefore readily open to suggestion, I do
not see that we can ever hope to obtain evidence not open to these
objections and, therefore, evidence that we can accept and rely upon.
supplement.) Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration I 317
SUBLIMINAL SELF OR UNCONSCIOUS CEREBRATION?
Having had occasion recently to examine some of the literature connected
with the subject of "multiple consciousness," the writer discovered that, as the
reading advanced, his opinions were undergoing a complete transformation.
Starting with the prepossession that "double consciousness" was a well
attested fact, and that a "secondary consciousness " was a necessary assump
tion for the satisfactory explanation of many curious facts of a morbid
psychological nature, there came gradually the inclination to adopt a more
physiological and, in the writer's opinion, a more consistent view. At a time
when such books as those of Janet 1 and Binet,J and such articles as those
of Myers5 are giving widespread currency to the notions of "secondary''
and "subliminal " consciousnesses, it may not be amiss to approach the subject
from a somewhat antagonistic standpoint, and to offer a mild protest against
the too hasty adoption of such momentous doctrines. There are many facts
that seem to militate very strongly against all those theories that have for
their fundamental claim the existence of a subliminal, split-off, parasitic,
secondary consciousness. Three reasons for rejecting these theories may
perhaps be worthy of consideration.
I. The assumption of a secondary consciousness is unnecessary. This
hypothesis has arisen in great part from a study of the curious phenomena of
hysteria, and is founded upon the belief that outside of the normal, primary
consciousness there exist separate sensations, separate images, and separate
memories, for which it is considered necessary to posit another consciousness.
The belief in these sensations, images, and memories is grounded principally
in the notion of pseudo-amesthesias, and in the notion that complex move
ments cannot be produced without accompanying motor images. In hysteria
ansesthesias and complex movements are found, which are not under the
jurisdiction of the primary consciousness. Consequently the hysteric has a
secondary bit of consciousness which contains these rejected sensations and
motor images. Such in its simplest form is the argument of the French
1 Pierre Janet.—VAutomatismc Psychologique. Also Etat Mental da Hvstiriques,
Vols. I. and II., 1892-3.
2 A. Binet.—Let Alterations de la Pertonnaliti.
*F. W. H. Myers—Proceedings, S.P.R., February, July.and December, 1892.
I.
2 B
318 ISupplement.
Arthur H. Pierce.
writers. Standing alone it may mean one of two things. It may mean that
conscious motor images are necessary for the production of movements and
that complex acts require a guiding consciousness,—that is, it may mean that
consciousness stands in causal relation to motor processes ; or it may simply
mean that these odd phenomena of hysteria are such as would naturally be
accompanied by consciousness, the latter being called secondary in these cases
because it does not belong to the normal consciousness of the subject. In a
word, the argument in favour of a secondary consciousness may rest upon a
belief in the causal efficacy of consciousness, or it may rest upon mere
analogy. Without discussing the particular point of view, however, that
individual writers take, and without entering into any consideration of
particular theories such as that of psycho-physical parallelism, believers in
which are perhaps less apt to speak of consciousness as necessarily present in
the initiating and guiding of movements,—leaving all this aside, one can at
least say that all writers upon the subject of secondary consciousness seem
utterly to forget the well known experiments upon frogs and pigeons that
have been repeated time and time again in physiological laboratories. These
animals, when deprived of their hemispheres, will swim or fly, as the case
may be, will avoid obstacles, regain their normal position if placed upon
their backs, eat if food be put into their mouths, in short will perform all or
nearly all their normal acts if only the appropriate stimuli be applied. Here
we have acts of considerable complexity with nothing but the lower nervous
centres to control them. But there is one all-important condition for these
acts of frogs and pigeons. The appropriate stimuli must be applied, for no
act is spontaneous. The movements of the hysteric which are ascribed to the
secondary consciousness are of this type exactly. All the movements of
adaptation to a pair of scissors or to a dynamometer placed in the hand, and
all the movements in automatic writing are simply responses to appropriate
stimuli, responses that are no more complex for man than are swimming and
flying for frogs and pigeons. So that even if a consciousness be really
efficient in directing movements, it is superfluous to invoke it for such
phenomena as hysteria presents.
II.—The second consideration for abandoning the theory is that, if
consistently held, it must be pushed to a point of absurdity. In his " Das
Doppel-Ich,"1 Dessoir makes the following statement, "In the course of
ordinary life certain actions occur which presuppose for their origination all
the faculties of the human spirit, but which, nevertheless, work themselves
out without the knowledge of the agent. These actions we term automatic.
Among them are certain automatic movements, as the act of dressing
oneself, or of retracing a well known path ; and some other automatic
performances, such as counting one's steps, or adding up columns of figures.
These latter acts plainly indicate the existence of a separate train of
memory employed upon them. And, moreover, although they take place
without the agent's knowledge, they cannot take place without his conscious
ness; they cannot be truly unconscious acts. They must in some fashion
belong to a sub-consciousness which, in relation to the far more potent njtper
consciousness may best be understood if we consider it as a secondary
1 Max Dessoir -Das Doppel-Ich. Leipzig, 1890.
supplement.) Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration .' 319
consciousness. And if we regard consciousness and memory as the essential
constituents of an Ego, we may boldly Ray that every man conceals within
himself the germs of a second personality."1
All my automatic acts then, are, when the whole story is told, acts that
Wong to a subordinate consciousness. I am, then, constantly attended by
a personality. No. 2, who watches over me and attends to many of my
personal matters like a faithful valet. After a short season of preliminary
instruction, he learns to oversee the operations sometimes wrongly called
mechanical, such as walking, dressing, avoiding objects in my way, swallow
ing, coughing, etc. It is he who thrusts my hands into my Ilocket8,
and causes me to blush when I become embarrassed. His is the blame for
any sudden fit of uncontrollable awkwardness, and to him may often be
ascribed the responsibility for "the things that were better left unsaid." It
is he that revels in my dreams, that raves in my fevers, and sometimes
becomes inconveniently communicative and shamelessly reveals secrets that
hare been whispered to him by individual No. 1. All the acts of my body
that are not consciously governed by my personal consciousness are under
the supervision of No. 2. In short, if this theory of a secondary conscious
ness be made to do its full duty, the doctrine that habits are due to well-
worn nervous paths must be abandoned, and all the phenomena now
commonly ascribed to habit must be classed under the head of relegation*
to a tecowlary consciousness. Such a conclusion is not merely unnecessary,
it is mythical and fantastic to a point of absurdity.
Once more, consider for a moment the implication of Myers' theory of a
"subliminal" consciousness. Those who are familiar with his articles will
remember his simile of the spectrum, the ultra red portion representing the
consciousness that attends the physiological functions, and the ultra-violet
end representing that consciousness from which come the inspirations of
genius.2 Here we have the secondary consciousness divided into two parts.
What is to hinder the sub-division of each of these parts ? If we go the full
length of the theory, must we not posit a consciousness for every physical
process? Must not the digestive organs, the heart, the lungs, the
mechanism ofjjlocomotion have each its own special overseer 1 And if once
we begin this process of sub-division, where are we to stop? "Few,"
Deesoir says, "have entered the lists in defence of the multiplicity of the
Ego." Were we to keep going down, positing more and more layers of
consciousness, " we should arrive at a kind of onion-structure of the Soul !"
To be sure we should, but double consciousness cannot stop with its own
assumption. Consistency demands that the Subliminal Self be divided into
numerous other tiny Selves, whose sum, together with the little primary Self,
makes up the entire individual.. I myself, then, am but a homunculus
among homunculi, and why the particular homunculus that I call myself
should be such as he is, and not one of the subliminal fellows, that remains
a total and inscrutable mystery. Without saying it in so many words,
Myers practically admits all this. But this is worse psychologizing than an
unconditional return to the old doctrine of Faculties.
1 See Proceeding!, S.P.R., Vol. VI., p. 207.
> Mjers-Proceedings, S.P.R., VII.. XX., p. 328.
2 b 2
320 ISupplement.
Arthur H. Pierce.
III.—A third reason for rejecting the theory under discussion is that
we have not a particle of direct testimony for the existence of a split-off
consciousness. You will retort that we have no direct evidence for the
existence of any consciousness not our own, and I should at once assent,
because all of our reasoning in regard to another's consciousness is by
analogy solely. But there is one point that needs to be noted. Assent to
the theory of secondary consciousness has been unipjestionably facilitated by
the notion that we are all in possession of a dream-consciousness that is
separate from our waking consciousness. And we draw this conclusion not
so much from the observation of the dreams and petty somnambulisms of
others, as from the often observed fact that the imaged events of one dream
will recur in another dream, though they be forgotten during waking
moments. This thought seems to establish conclusively the proof of a
distinct dream-consciousness. But a moment's careful thought will im
mediately disclose the incontestible fact, that the recurrence in dreams of
identical pictures peculiar to the dreams could never have been established and
would probably never have been conceived, had not the fact of recurrence
been present in the primary consciousness of the individual. And of the fact
of recurrence there could never have been the faintest inkling, had it not been
that the events which recurred were known to consciousness No. 1. The
dream-consciousness is only the normal consciousness working under peculiar
conditions. Many dreams, I feel confident, are never attended by any
consciousness whatsoever. They are then, strictly speaking, not dreams at
all, although to an observer all the outward manifestations of a dream are
present. But a consciousness cannot be inferred. It must be testified to
by the individual himself. And so far as I know, no secondary consciousness
has ever left in any automatically written record any claim to self-conscious
ness, or any indefeasible testimony in support of its own recognised
existence. The whole conception is pure assumption. For no primary
consciousness can ever bear witness to the existence of a secondary,
dissociated fragment of consciousness. If it ever attempt to give such
testimony, it thereby proves that the fragment is a portion of itself and
therefore no fragment at all.
Nor have those statements any value that are made by persons who
affirm that they are composed of two distinct selves, one of which does
things that the other condemns. What such persons are talking about is.
simply the one primary self under two different and somewhat contradictory
aspects. Any testimony from oneself that one is double is the very best
possible proof that one is not double. In like manner those who claim that
they are possessed or are under some foreign control, either refer to various
contradictory phases of their one self, or show that some of their acts that
are usually voluntary occur without the presence in consciousness of the
appropriate accompanying motor images. There is no direct evidence for a
secondary consciousness, and indirect evidence in such a case as this should,
it seems to me, be looked upon with suspicion. We have no right to assert
that a given set' of muscular movements is accompanied by a consciousness,
merely because it is of a kind that with us is so accompanied. Reasoning by
analogy may sometimes overstep its bounds.
Accordingly, I am compelled to reject the theory of a secondary
soppicment.1 Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration? 321
consciousness for the three reasons given,—because the supposition is
unnecessary to explain the facts ; because it must be pushed to a point of
absurdity if consistently held ; anil because there is not the slightest direct
evidence for the existence of the kind of consciousness in question. All the
facts usually taken in support of a double consciousness theory appear
explicable in terms of brain alone. The brain-explanation may seem un
satisfactory to many, but at least it is the less mythical explanation, and
surely it is fully as simple, in that it confines the difficulty wholly to the
physical side. Let me state as well as I can the physical explanation for the
various cases of ordinary alternating, or changing personality, as well as for
those cases in which two or more separate consciousnesses are supposed to
exist simultaneously. We will consider the latter first.
In all the abnormalities of hysteria, for which Janet and the rest see tit
to assume a second consciousness, the state of the matter seems to me to be
simply this,—certain cerebral cells and cortical paths have in some way
become clogged, with the result that the nervous tensions, and the force and
rapidity of discharge consequent upon these tensions, have been reduced to a
point far below the normal. These cortical processes are unable to reach
that degree of excitation that is requisite for consciousness. Every one
admits that an excitation below a certain limit fails to be attended by
consciousness, though the reason for such a fact is still lacking. The normal
consciousness therefore becomes contracted, as Janet so often says. The
nst of the co1iscious1iess has timply evaporated. If 1 may be permitted to use
such a grotesque figure, consciousness may be compared to a mass of steam
floating over a brain whose cortex is in a high state of nervous tension and
activity. Let certain portions of the cortical area "cool down" and the
steam disappears from over those areas. Now this is exactly what happens
in hysteria. Certain brain-areas become so clogged that the requisite
amount of "heat" cannot be maintained, and lo! the vapoury consciousness
vanishes. Could these chilled areas once be " warmed up " again, conscious
ness would return. And we find plenty of evidence that this often happens.
The hysterical aniethesias vastly diminish in states of intoxication, whether
from alcohol, chloroform, or morphine they often disappear wholly during
an attack, which surely is a nervous commotion sufficient to arouse any
dormant brain-tract ; electricity diminishes them ; and if the attention of
the patient be called to the amesthetic part by directing her to look
at a coloured wafer placed upon it, pinching of the part will be felt for some
time afterwards,—and what is "calling the attention to the part" but a
method for rendering more intense the nervous process in the tactile regions
of the cortex. The aboulias, as well as the amethesias, disappear in ether or
alcohol intoxication.2 Patients find it much more easy to voluntarily per
form old and habitual acts than those newly-acquired ; which is only another
way of saying that well-worn cortical paths can be raised to the conscious
ness-point of excitation much more readily than paths that still offer
resistance by reason of their newness. If the cortex could be kept con
stantly at a red heat, consciousness would be as extensive as in any normal
1 Janet.—Etat Mental, ett., Vol. I., p. 20.
5 Janet.—Loc. cit., Vol. I., p. 144.
322 ISupplement.
Arthur H. Pierce.
individual. But disease has occasioned too much resistance for that. Several
considerations will serve to illustrate the clogging and consequent imper-
viousness of paths. In the so-called stage of intellectual aboulia the patient
has a feeling of unfamiliarity with everything ; all things appear as if in a
dream ; the subject is not wholly sure whether a book is a book, is not abso
lutely certain that a brother is really recognised as a brother, etc.1 That is, the
nervous process is so weak that the usual paths of association are not opened,
and the experience has none of that feeling of "warmth and intimacy" that
in normal life constitutes the fact of recognition. Again, a subject who would
normally require twenty minutes for the execution of such a simple act as
taking a hat from a table and hanging it upon a peg, will perform the act
immediately under the influence of a post-hypnotic suggestion. At a given
rap upon the table she takes the hat and hangs it up. The hypnotic
suggestion has opened the necessary paths, and the act can be performed
quickly. But, further, if she be interrupted in the midst of the act and
asked what she is doing, she replies—" I ? I am doing nothing."— " But you
have just taken tho hat."—" No, it is not I." The subject thinks that it is
not she who does the act, because the usual normal complex of associated
paths that corresponds to what we term the reasons for an act is wanting.
The very elements that compose the feeling of self-origination are lacking,
for if one knows no reasons for an act, how can one think that the act is
one's own ? Paths are everywhere blocked. Only a few can be open simul
taneously. The greater part of consciousness is consequently suppressed.
Once more, the hysterical amnesias are no more wonderful than the
similar experiences that we ourselves have when we are about to fall into the
unconsciousness of sleep. Not long ago, as I was on the point of falling
asleep, a train of thought, apparently of some significance, ran through my
mind and immediately vanished, leaving no trace beyond the faint recollec
tion that something had been there. Had it not been for the psychological
interest of the matter, the fact even of the vanished thoughts might never
have been noticed. The whole life of the hysteric is made up of experiences
of this kind. Impressions, of whatever sort they may be, leave such faint
traces behind them that the paths of association lie unopened or dormant,
until forced open by some unusually violent nervous commotion like the
attack. Then the amnesias vanish, and for a moment the field of conscious
ness enlarges.
Thus the amount of consciousness that a hysteric possesses is constantly
varying, fluctuating at the times of an attack from almost nothing to the
normal amount. The fluctuations of the anajsthesias, amnesias, and powers
of voluntary movement ; the peculiar phenomena of the paralyses, the con
tractures and the attacks; in a word all the "bizarreries" that are the
commonplaces of the hysteric's life can be understood and accounted for on
no other hypothesis than the one that makes them cerebral and not mental
phenomena. To the poor hysteric herself, to be sure, they must appear
under the form of continual fluctuations in the field of consciousness, from a.
state of normal life to that state in which the residual consciousness
is extremely minute. But to the observer and describer they must ever
1 Janet.—Loc. ait., Vol. I., p. 141.
sappiement.i Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration? 323
appear as phenomena of brain and nervous system,—phenomena due to one
of the most subtle of nervous diseases.
But, one objects, does not the awesthetic hand of the hysteric have a
memory of its own ? Does it not repeat acts that it is first made to perform?
Does it nut show by its automatic writing that the events of weeks ago are
remembered ! And does not this memory, then, show the existence of a con
sciousness of which it is a part ? I would reply that in the true sense of the
word there is no memory here at all. There is nothing but the recurrence of
former discharges, a second edition of previous acts. There is no more
memory present than in the well-seasoned, time-mellowed violin, which
responds to the bow by vibrating in the same old waves and nodes that
hundreds of previous bowings have firmly established. If this can be called
memory, then the pranks of the hysteric's antesthetic hand may also be ho
oiled. And if counting and adding are to be made proofs of a consciousness,
I can only say that machines will add with marvellous accuracy, and that
trork-horses have been known to start for home when a definito number of
luads have been carried.
These changes in the consciousness and the personality of the hysterics
can be best understood by keeping in mind the thesis so ably maintained by
Ribot in his Diseases of Personality. According to him, what we mean by
personality, psychologically speaking, is but a complex of memories and
bal'ly sensations. If now these bodily sensations be changed or diminished,
there is lost the very thing upon which the consciousness of personal identity
rests. Now the hysteric has lost many of her bodily sensations. What
happens over a good part of the body is often not reported to consciousness
*t all. But let all the bodily sensations be restored, as in the deep somnam
bulism, and the patient is her true self again. The trouble lies probably in
the kinesthetic regions of the cortex.1 This conception of trouble in the
kinesthetic areas, of such a kind that the consciousness-point of excitation
cannot usually be reached, helps also to clear up the phenomena which are
classed under the head of co-operations of the two consciousnesses.2 E.g.,
the hand is pricked three times and the subject sees or thinks of the number
three. That is, the paths of association to the visual or other sensory
centres are open, and these centres, in consequence of their excitation, are
accompanied by consciousness. All the facts of " co-operation " can be thus
explained.
When the two consciousnesses conflict, as in the "parasitic cases,"3 the
state of the matter is, probably, that certain groups of cells have in some
way become dissociated in part, so that they cannot properly discharge. Their
constant struggle to discharge constitutes the annoyance, the harassing
" irruptions of the secondary consciousness. " Some violent emotion opens up
paths, allows the discharge to take place, and sets everything right again.
This seems to me a more simple explanation than to say, as the writers
referred to in the foot-note do say, that two consciousnesses become recon-
1 See H. C. Bastian's Hysterical or Functional Paralysis.
:Binet.—Loc. cit., p. 173.
'See article by Breuer and Freud in Neurologisches Centralblatt, January, 1893.
Also Janet, hoe. at.. Vol. II , pp. 65 and 242.
324 ISupplement.
Arthur H. Pierce.
ciled. How weeping and cursing can reconcile two consciousnesses, I fail
to see ; but that they could be effective in opening up clogged paths I can
easily understand.
What has been said in regard to hysteria may be said equally well in
regard to dreams, automatic writing, mediumistic possession, &c., &c. Old
and familiar paths are discharging in a subdued way, and the acts are reflex
and unconscious. In fact all those phenomena that are commonly supposed
to furnish evidence in favour of a secondary consciousness, really present the
most convincing illustrations of the fact that acts of the most complex kind
can go on without the aid of an accompanying consciousness. With respect
to hysteria, it may indeed be true that it can be most conveniently diagnosed
as a mental disorder, for the facts in consciousness are here more accessible
than the regions of the cortex. But to diagnose hysteria as a mental disease,
and to consider it a mental trouble which produces physical disorders, are
two widely different things.
In some such way as this, the weakness of the theories that postulate two
co-existing consciousnesses may be shown. What now can be said of those
familiar cases of alternating personality for which Mary Reynolds1 and
Ansel Bourne2 may be taken as types ? It is true that we have here two
soparate personalities, but one is not secondary to the other except in point
of time. When either one exists, it is for the time primary consciousness,
the whole personality. Each has its own period of complete sway, and
meanwhile the other has ceased to be. By some strange process there have
arisen two sundered sets of associations, each of which represents a self. But
it is not under the form of associations in consciousness that these two sets
have become sundered. The separation is a brain-fact entirely, —a brain-
fact that finds its counterpart in the fluctuating changes of consciousness.
Exactly what this brain-fact is I am of course unable to state ; but the
general explanation seems to lie in the notion of cortical cloggings, partial or
entire, cloggings of such a kind that currents may still pass, though with
enfeebled power, as electric currents pass with greater difficulty through a
smaller wire ; or cloggings that may wholly bar the passage of all ordinary
currents and may thus switch them off in new directions. Of one thing,
however, there seems to be some evidence, namely, that although some new
portions of the cerebral structure must be used for the new sets of associa
tions, each of the alternating personalties does not correspond to absolutely
distinct brain-areas. Mary Reynolds, after falling into her second state, waa
obliged to re-learn the arts of reading and writing, but "she made such
rapid progress in both that in a few tceeks she had readily relearned to read
and write," and, the account adds, "when we consider the length of time
required to teach a child these arts, her almost intuitive readiness appears
wonderful." The simple and prosaic truth is that certain identical brain-
paths were employed in the second as in the first state. In the beginning of
the second state they were doubtless obstructed or disconnected, but the new
efforts at learning cleared them out, or established the proper connections, and
thereafter they functioned correctly. Ribot states that no cases are known
1 Transactions of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, April 4, 1888,
abstracted in Prof. James' Psychology, Vol. I., p. 381.
2 Prof. James' Psychology, Vol. I., p. 391.
supplement.) Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration? 325
to him where the second personality has not inherited at least some small
share of the effects of its predecessor ; and from what has just been said the
reason is clear. Ansel Bourne's second self,—the Brown personality,—was,
according to Professor James, "nothing but a rather shrunken, dejected and
amnesic extract of Mr. Bourne himself."
In the cases of progressive, or developing personalities, like those of Dr.
Aram's Felida X. and Janet's Lucie and Leonie, the successive personalities,
each larger than and including the others, seem to be due to the successive
removal, through the influence of disease or hypnotism, of certain inhibi
tions. The complex network of interlacing brain-paths is divided off some
how into more or less perfect systems. One system of paths remains open
constantly and represents the normal personality. At times a second system
is opened up and.put into connection with the first, and this combination of
the two sets of paths corresponds to the second personality. Similarly
with the third personality, when that exists. Thus Lucie I. was anesthetic
all over, nearly deaf and partially blind. In Lucie II. the anesthesias were
diminished, some inhibitions had been removed and some new paths opened ;
while Lucie III. had all the inhibitions removed and was without a trace of
ansssthesia. To say that certain new sets of paths have been ojlened up
seems vastly more simple and intelligible, vague as it may be, than to say
that various strata of consciousness have been brought from a state of dis
sociation into one of harmonious union.
Let no one suppose from the above that the writer is endeavouring to
reduce personality to cerebral explosions, or trying to debase consciousness
by making use of brain-hypotheses. An attempt has been made merely to
suggest an explanation of the facts that shall be consistent with itself ; and
to this end the description of the phenomena has been couched in physical
terms, with no pretence whatever to ultimate points of view where " deeper
realities" must gain recognition. For all the phenomena usually classed
under such heads as "double" and "secondary" consciousness, two terms
may be proposed,—first Alternating Personalities, a term that is already for
the most part correctly employed ; and second, Fluctuating Consciousness,
a term that will cover all cases of developing personality, as well as all cases
that are supposed to be manifestations of a subliminal consciousness.
"Multiple consciousness," "secondary consciousness," and the like, are terms
that should be abandoned. '' Two souls within one breast '' is, indeed, a
beautiful rhetorical figure, indispensable for poetry and religion. And so
were Kepler's angels a beautiful conception for the power that drives the
planets. But in science the metaphor must be dropped.
Arthur H. Pierce.
II.
It is no doubt useful sometimes to forsake the mountain tops whereon
the Subliminal Self sits enthroned, and to rest for a space on the solid
earth. For there are mists in those high regions, and the traveller who has
looked for a wide prospect over the kingdoms of the mind has sometimes
found his only reward in the strenuous joys of the ascent. Personally, I
sm grateful to Mr. Pierce for having recalled us for a time to the
326 ISupplement-
Frank Podmore.
purely physiological aspects of the problem—aspects which our ignorance, on
the one hand, of the cerebral changes accompanying consciousness, and on
the other, the allurements of the psychological questions involved, are
constantly tempting us to ignore. Mr. Pierce has done good service by
attempting to define the nature of the physical changes which correspond to
the mental phenomena of fluctuating and alternate consciousness. His
physiological explanation of the modifications in sensibility presented by
hystero-aniesthetic subjects like Pierre Janet's Louise and Rose, is, if nut
novel, luminous and forcible. Probably his account of the matter is about
as near as we can at present come to a correct view of the physical side of the
phenomena. The metaphor of consciousness as the steam floating over the
workings of the brain engine, with stimuli such as alcohol or hypnotism to
warm up the cooled-down area and thus increase the steaming surface,
is picturesque and helpful. And in all the latter part of his paper, when he
deals with the phenomena of " Alternating Personalities," to each of
which he allows an independent consciousness, it is difficult to find cause for
serious disagreement. To all this M. Pierre Janet and the other French
observers referred to, if I have rightly understood them, and probably Mr.
Myers also, would find themselves able to assent.
But why does Mr. Pierce quarrel with the attribution of consciousness to
these abnormal states? Consciousness is not a brain fact. And yet
Mr. Pierce throughout writes as if the physiological were an alternative to the
psychological explanation. Take your choice, he says in effect, but you can't
have both. Thus, he assures us that the singular manifestations observed
in Janet's hystero-aniesthetics, are "cerebral, not mental phenomena." He
warns us that " if the theory of a secondary consciousness be made to do its
full duty, the doctrine that habits are due to well-worn nerve paths must be
abandoned, and all the phenomena now commonly ascribed to habit must be
classed under the head of relegations to a secondary consciousness." And
finally, he lays it down that all the facts usually taken in "support of a
double consciousness theory appear explicable in terms of brain alone," and
that this is "the less mythical explanation." Now to the plain man—the
man who is not bound by his allegiance to some philosophical system
to swear away any of the facts—statements like these appear to involve a.
radical misconception of the questions at issue.
To the plain man there is not one series of phenomena susceptible either
of a physical or of a metaphysical explanation. There are two series of
phenomena. The plain man calls these series respectively physical and
mental. The mental phenomena are states of consciousness, the physical
are brain changes—Mr. Pierce's " clogged cells, " "well-worn nerve paths,"
" inhibited tracts," and so on. If we wish to go a little deeper, it may be
pointed out that the existence of both series rests upon inference. We are
dealing with brain-changes which we never saw, nor are ever likely to see ;
and with states of some other person's consciousness, when all that we
really know is states of our own. But the inferences are made and
accepted by everyone as postulates necessary for carrying on the business f.f
life. Perhaps it may be that the two sets of phenomena are diverse aspects of
the same essential fact. But for practical purposes we have to take them as
we find them, as two separate and mutually exclusive series. For purposes.
supplement.I Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebmtion ? 327
of scientific treatment we may, if we choose, discuss the problem from
either the cerebral or the mental side, or from both simultaneously. We
may talk indifferently of "enlargement of consciousness," or "re
vivification of dormant cerebral tracts," of- " the intrusion of a secondary
memory," or "the spasmodic functioning of a dissociated sub-cortical
centre." Probably in our present ignorance of cerebral physiology the
psychological method is likely to be the more fruitful, and it appears, with
deference to Mr. Pierce, to be the simpler. But no doubt it is well to have
both.
Thus much isi conceded by logic and common sense. But what
logic and common sense do not concede is that we should treat mental
and cerebral ^phenomena as members of that same series. The cerebral
fact has its cerebral antecedent and its cerebral consequent. Not merely the-
obserred facts, but the conditions of our thinking compel us to assume that the
physical chain, at any rate, is complete in itself, and unbroken by the
intrusion of any fact of a different order : though we cannot always trace a
like continuity in the mental series. When, therefore, Mr. Pierce talks of
abandoning well-worn nerve channels in favour of secondary consciousness ;
when he asks us to accept the " brain explanation " as less mythical ; when
he writes of a mental disorder as a thinkable explanation of cerebral disease,
he is ignoring the rules of the game. A mental disorder cannot cause a
physical change : "well-worn nerve cliannels " are merely the hypothetical
brain-eiiuivaleuts (has Mr. Pierce ever seen a well-worn nerve channel, and
would he recognise it if he did ? ) for the workings of what Mr. Myers
calls the Subliminal Consciousness. The brain explanation is more " satis
factory" as an explanation of the physical facts, just as the Subliminal
Consciousness is more satisfactory as a means of describing the mental
phenomena. Both are alike " mythical " if by that is meant hypothetical.
In fact, we are dealing throughout with hypotheses, conventional signs of we
know not what underlying realities. The two sets of signs are parallel ; but
it is a fatal blunder to interpolate a term from one series into the other. The
art of painting and the art of writing furnish us with two series of conven
tional signs by means of which a fact in nature- say a landscape—may
be represented. Mr. Pierce is in the position of an artist who through the
poverty of his technical resources should in depicting a landscape leave the
sty unpainted, filling in the blank with a written description of the blue
vault dappled with white clouds, and should then proceed to complain that
the black ink would not harmonise with the colour-scheme of his picture.
What right has Mr. Pierce, on physical grounds, to object to consciousness;
is an explanation of the psychological phenomena observed i Once more,
consciousness is not a brain fact. When—to take his arguments seriatim —
Mr. Pierce asserts that the assumption of a secondary consciousness is un
necessary, the question arises, unnecessary for what ? It is not necessary—
it would be ridiculous— as an explanation of physical facts. But no one, as:
f*r as I am aware, has put it forward in that connection. Whether or not a
secondary consciousness may be inferred from certain phenomena, physical
and mental, is a question with which psychologists are primarily concernedr
snd which cannot be solved or greatly advanced towards solution by reference,
to reflex action and brainless frogs.
328 [Supplement.
Frank Pod/more.
So again, in his second argument. To suppose that consciousness accom
panies automatic action may or may not be absurd. It is a question, I
apprehend, to be determined by observation. But Mr. Pierce has not shown
that it has any bearing upon the ascription of habitual action to well-worn
nerve paths.
His final argument, that there is no direct testimony to the existence of a
split-off consciousness, not only betrays the same misconception, but appears
to be based on a superficial and extremely restricted survey of the faces.
In the latter part of his paper, in order to meet the cases of Ansel Bourne,
Mary Reynolds, and Felida X., Mr. Pierce admits the existence of "alter
nating personalities," and " fluctuating consciousness," and thus practically
concedes much of the matter in dispute. But in his first discussion of the sub
ject he concentrates his attention almost exclusively on tie small group of
hystero-anesthetics described by Pierre Janet and others. Practically the
whole of his arguments and illustrations are drawn from these subjects.
" The belief," he says, "in these sensations, images, and memories [outside
the normal cousciousness], is grounded principally in the notion of pseuuV-
anesthesias, and in the notion that complex movements cannot be produced
without accompanying motor images." Even to dreams and somnambulism
he refers only to express his conviction that " many dreams are never
-attended by any consciousness whatever." Surely we need Mr. Pierces
definition of consciousness before we can discuss a statement of this kind.
But however narrowly Mr. Pierce would be disposed to limit the applica
tion of "consciousness," I cannot but think that if he had at the outset of
his enquiries taken into consideration not merely such pathological cases as
those of Felida X. and Ansel Bourne, but the more frequent and normal
phenomena of the hypnotic trance, he would have modified this statement iif
his views. The hypnotised subject presents, or may present, — as many of
us have seen for ourselves,—all the phenomena which we associate with con
sciousness, not merely in our own case, but in the case of the same person
when in his normal state. He talks, acts, reasons ; exhibits emotion, judg
ment, volition. As has been said, the hypnotic state frequently differs from
the normal in no other respect than that it is different. If Madame B. is not
conscious in the state in which she has christened herself Leontine, by what
signs are we to infer consciousness in others at all ? And the consciousness of
the hypnotic is certainly not identical with the consciousness of the waking
state. With rare exceptions it is more extensive ; it includes the waking
consciousness as a larger includes a smaller concentric circle, itself not
included by it. Indeed, so much Mr. Pierce practically admits, by proposing
the term "fluctuating consciousness" for conditions like those presented by
Felida X. and Madame B.
Comparing the admissions at the end of the article with the argument at
the beginning, I am led to the conclusion that what Mr. Pierce really aimed
at refuting was, not the contention that consciousness accompanies certain
abnormal states and certain "automatic" actions, but the doctrine that
these states and actions indicate that there are two independent centres
of activity functioning simultaneously in the same organism—in a word, the
doctrine of dual or rival control. If I am right in my understanding of Lis
argument, it might be paraphrased somewhat as follows :—Consciousness is
supplement.I Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration ? 329
an accompaniment, under certain conditions, of the functioning of the brain
isa whole. It is a unity which reflects the synthesis, or nither synergy, of the
several cerebral centres. To recognise a secondary consciousness would be to
admit the possibility of a second synthesis of brain centres. Such dual con
trol in an organism would be opposed to all physiological analogy. There
fore there is no secondary consciousness.
As to whether that contention is sound physiologically, I am not competent
to offer an opinion. But, arguing solely from the iwychological data at
present available, I am led, provisionally, to the same conclusion. I can find
no evidence that would lead me to believe that there are two independent
organised systems of consciousness operating simultaneously in any of the
essessofar brought forward. The ordinary case of the hypnotic subject—with
which in this connection we may group such morbid cases as those of Felida
X. and Janet's hystero-anfesthetic patients—certainly seem to call for no
such explanation. These are all instances of what Mr. Pierce calls
"Fluctuating Consciousness." In other words, the two consciousnesses
may be represented by concentric circles, of which the normal is always the
smaller. There is here no conflict or co-operation of independent centres of
consciousness: the "secondary" consciousness differs from the primary
merely in containing more elements. This difference, as formulated by
Mr. Pierce in physiological terms, is no doubt due to the removal of certain
inhibitions existing in the normal state, or to the stimulation to "conscious
ness-point of excitation" of certain cerebral tracts normally dormant. In
psychological language, a secondary consciousness includes a wider range of
motor or sensory images, of ideas and emotions. But it is essentially one
consciousness, its centre the same, its periphery enlarged. And there is, I
imagirle, little evidence that the " Secondary " consciousness deserves even
the name of an enlarged consciousness in its earlier stages—except in those
rare cases where the field of waking consciousness has been abnormally
restricted by disease. In the ordinary hypnotic subject it appears to take
«ime time for the consciousness to become developed. In the process of
such development, no doubt, it assumes into itself new elements, both
subjective and objective—facts of internal sensation and lapsed memories,
as well as novel experiences from without. By such means, as in Madame
B.'s case, the trance-consciousness may be educated and developed, so
as not merely to present a widely different content, but to assume a different
character from the primary state of the same individual. But this is purely
an artificial product. It is one consciousness which has worked up into
organic relation with itself the fresh material presented to it. We only know
"Leontine" in her mature state. But it is not likely that she came into the
world full-grown.
The instances in which the secondary consciousness intrudes into the
domain of ordinary life may seem irreconcilable with this view of the
matter. When the hidden "Adrienne" answers intelligent questions
whilst " Louise " is talking to the company at large ; when the hypnotic
subject, in the midst of a conversation in the normal state, gets up to poke
the fire in obedience to a mandate given 10 minutes before in the hypnotic
trance ; or writes out the solution of an arithmetical problem whilst
reading the newspaper aloud—do not these various acts indicate two
330 ISupplement
Frank Podmore.
simultaneously functioning centres of consciousness 1 Mr. Pierce has
recognised the difficulty, and attempts to meet it by suggesting that the
acts performed by the secondary consciousness, as the planchette-writing, and
poking of the fire, and whispered conversation, are automatic and per
formed without consciousness. But the facts are against this explanation,
at least, in some cases. Mr. Gurney, for instance, has shewn (see his article
on "Peculiarities of Certain Post-hypnotic States," Proceedings, S.P.R.,
Vol. IV., pp. 268-323), that the actions attributed to the Secondary Self are
frequently so difficult and complicated as necessarily to imply the exercise
of the fullest intelligence of which the subject is capable. Moreover, the
re-hypnotised subject remembers the performance of the enjoined act, and
can explain any peculiarities in its performance, and correct mistakes made.
It would surely be extravagant to refuse to admit that such acts are
deliberately and consciously performed. But the facts appear sometimes to
be not inconsistent with the converse supposition,—that it is the actions
attributable to the primary self which are performed without conscious
guidance, as the response of some lower cerebral centre, through well-worn
nerve channels, to familiar stimuli. The attention of observers and
experimenters has been directed almost exclusively to the acts attributed to
the secondary consciousness, and the attempt to prove that such acts
indicate intelligence and volition, and the workings of the primary conscious
ness have been comparatively neglected. We are given no detail in many
cases of the waking occupations of Mr. Gurney's subjects. Perhaps the
actions of their waking selves were the purely reflex response to the spoken
or printed words. Indeed, in some curious experiments, directed to
obtaining "evidence of an absolutely complete and mutually exclusive
segregration of two simultaneous states or streams of consciousness in the
same individual," (Loc. cit. pp. 318 et seq.) Mr. Gurney succeeded only
in demonstrating that when the performance assigned to the primary self
was of a nature to demand the full exercise of intelligence, the secondary
consciousness was unable to discharge its allotted task. The subject, for
instance, read, " Through the Looking Glass " aloud "with spirit and enjoy
ment," but failed simultaneously to multiply 697 by 8 through planchette ; in
other words, Mr. Gurney failed to obtain the evidence which he desired. And,
indeed, it is obvious, as Mr. Gurney points out, that it would in any circum
stance be extremely difficult to obtain clear proof of such a proposition as the
simultaneous functioning of two independent centres of consciousness. We
know from the fact of the subsequent memory, and from other tests, such
as the susceptibility at the time to hallucination, that the subject in obeying
a post-hypnotic command frequently relapses into the hypnotic or secondary
state. Apparent instances, therefore, of the simultaneous performance of
intelligent acts by two separate centres of consciousness, may be explained—
since it is practically impossible to prove that the acta were really
simultaneous—as examples of the rapid alternation or fluctuation of the
field of consciousness.
But, in fact, all these difficulties disappear, or at least assume less
formidable proportions, if we accept the conclusion to which analogy and the
facts of observation alike point us, to wit, that we have been too hasty in
defining the limits of consciousness. We are dealing, as has been said, with
SupplementI Subliminal Self or Unconscious Cerebration? 331
two parallel series of phenomena, brain changes anil states of consciousness.
It has for some time been recognised that the physical chain is complete
and continuous. Yet we seem willing to believe in the mental chain as
fragmentary. We talk of the stream of consciousness : we suffer ourselves
to resolve it into a series of detached pools. Unless we are prepared to
admit that consciousness is simply a bye-product of cerebral activity, it is
difficult to account for its existence at all, except on the supposition that it is
continuous. If consciousness really disappears periodically—in sleep, for
instance, or coma—how can it ever arise again de noro, if we repudiate the
explanation of it as a secretion of the brain-cells ? But if we admit what
facts of observation also seem to indicate, the absolute continuity of con
sciousness : if we abolish the old distinction between conscious and uncon
scious, and substitute, to borrow a phrase of Mr. Lang's, cniitcioiu> and not-$o
wnsciom, we shall find the phenomena intelligible. We have been, perhaps,
at fault in our interrogation of consciousness. A more patient and searching
scrutiny would have brought to light much that has hitherto escaped our
notice. The strong light is focussed, it is true, only on the objects of
immediate interest : but outside the brilliant circle which illumines our every
day life may be discerned dim images, growing ever fainter and fainter, but
still recognisable. Amongst such dim shapes, seen momentarily and then
forgotten, are the dreams which we faintly recall on our first waking,
fragments of half-heard conversations, the actions which we class as habitual
or automatic. We may recognise, as fully as Mr. Pierce does, that these
actions are prepared, and these images recorded, automatically—that is, by
lower members of the cerebral hierarchy, acting without direct reference to
or express mandate from the central government ; but nevertheless in strict
subordination to their sovereign as responsible ministers of a constitutional
monarchy. To admit thus much, and yet to recognise that these actions are
accompanied by some degree of consciousness, is not to countenance anarchy
or even to connive at dual control.
In brief, to vary the metaphor, since it is only by metaphors that we
can reason at all in such matters, it would seem that the hypnotic trance
and other forms of the secondary consciousness simply open the door and
admit the light to our psychological lumber-room. The pressure upon the
area of our working consciousness is great, and its capacity limited. As a
result whole classes of ideas and sensations get crowded out. In the long
ascent from the amoeba we may suppose that group after group of simple sensa
tions fell back into the unconscious or the "not so conscious," as their place
was required by the more complex images called into existence by the chang
ing environment. Even in the lifetime of the individual the thoughts and
memories of childhood and youth are gradually thrust into that twilight by
the urgent affairs of our maturer life. Year by year sensations once vivid
grow fainter and finally pass unregarded. New forms of activity are practised
with anxious care, and repeated until use has made them familiar, and ulti
mately cease to require an express mandate from the sovereign power for their
performance. It is then of this psychological lumber-room that the crystal and
the hypnotist's command throw open the door. It by no means follows from
the fact that the furniture thus revealed has been gradually rejected by the
growing consciousness, that it is of little value. The lumber-rooms of our
332 ISupplement.
Frank Podmore.
grandfathers and grandmothers would often have been found, one imagines, to
contain Queen Anne sideboards, Sheraton tables, Chippendale chairs, and many
other things of higher use and greater beauty than the veneered monstrosi
ties with which their possessors had filled the places left vacant. So in the
lumber-room of memory we may find much that we would gladly see furbished
up and brought into the daylight again—forgotten scenes, neglected ideals,
faith grown dusty from disuse. Sometimes we may find there a " Wild
Duck Attic "—the hidden romance of a life-time. It is likely enough that
the hap-hazard process of selection which the contents of our consciousness
have undergone causes the loss of much that we would not willingly let pass
away. When the nature of the process and the results which attend it are
more clearly recognised, we may find it possible to recover something of this
so-called lumber from oblivion, and thus enlarge and enrich our work-a-day
selves. But as yet we seem to have found in the subliminal consciousness no
certain indication of any knowledge or faculties which have not at some time
played a part in the primary field. We come across memories of childhood
and many old forgotten things ; we come across traces of long lost but once
serviceable faculties—telepathy, sense of time, of direction, of weight ; we
acquire partial control over bodily functions—digestion, circulation, and the
like—which civilised man has learned to acquiesce in as beyond his guidance.
But in all this we only resume possession of our own. And I submit that
we have as yet no sufficient evidence of anything beyond that. The
subliminal consciousness presents to us—if we can read it right—an epitome
of our own past. It gives us hope and help for the future, not, on a sober
interpretation of the facts, by holding out the promise of transcendental
faculties, but by showing us what we have once had, and have not yet
wholly lost.
Frank Podmore.
General Meeting. 333
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETING.
The 75th General Meeting of the Society was held at the .West
minster Town Hall, on Friday, October 11th, at 8.30 p.m.; Professor
Sidgwick in the chair.
Statements were made by the Chairman, Dr. Hodgson, and Mr.
Myers as to the results of a series of experiments made at Cambridge
with an Italian " medium," Eusapia Paladino. The investigators
*ere unanimously of opinion that systematic trickery had been used
throughout the whole series of experiments at Cambridge, and that
there was no adequate reason for supposing that any other cause was
required to explain the phenomena that had there occurred.
Db. Hodgson read part of a paper on " Recent Phenomena of
Trance observed through Mrs. Piper," which it is hoped to publish
in full in the next number of the Proceedings.
2 c
334 F. W. H. Myers.
I.
THE SUBLIMINAL SELF.
By F. W. H. Myers.
Chapter VIII.
The Relation op Supernormal Phenomena to Time ;—
Retrocognition.
In a series of chapters dealing with the existence and faculties of a
Subliminal Self,—a part of our mind or faculty which lies below the
threshold of our ordinary consciousness,—I have called attention to
many facts which indicate that we are in reality beings of wider scope
and deeper powers than we habitually suppose. Reviewing almost
every known group of supernormal phenomena in turn, I have tried to
show that this submerged faculty has much to do with the perception
or production of them all.
There remain, however, two considerable groups of phenomena
which in this connexion I have hardly yet touched. One of these
groups consists of physical phenomena, such as have been described in
these Proceedings especially in connection with the late Mr. Stainton
Moses. Their relation to man's subliminal faculty must be reserved for
future discussion. There remains that varied group of incidents which
raise the question of the relation to Time borne by these hidden
powers which in other ways have shown themselves so far-reaching and
flexible. I have indeed already touched the margin of this subject in
a chapter on " Hypermnesic Dreams " (Proceedings, Vol. VIII). And
a more direct attack on the problem has been made by Mrs. Sidgwick,
who published about six years ago (Proceedings, Vol. V.) a paper "On
the Evidence for Premonitions."
That paper contained a collection of the best cases of apparent
premonition which we had received up to that time, during six years
of enquiry ; with a discussion of those sources of error, such as illusion
of memory and accidental coincidence, which need to be fully con
sidered before we can even provisionally believe that anything so
apparently inexplicable as a real prefigurement of the future has in
reality occurred. Mrs. Sidgwick's cases (some thirty in number) were
in her judgment (with which I agreed) inadequate to establish so
strange a conclusion. "We cannot, I think," she says, p. 353, "demand
The Subliminal Self. 335
that the possibility of supernormal prevision should be accepted even
as a working hypothesis by the scientific world, as I myself consider
that telepathy ought to be accepted. Still, there is enough evidence to
make us think about it ; and one advantage of having a society like
ours is to bring home to people the importance of observing and record
ing at once facts bearing on such subjects, and to supply a centre where
such records can be kept."
Mrs. Sidgwick's discussion has been effective in the direction
desired ; and at least double the amount of evidence of this type
which our society had amassed during the six years which preceded
that paper has been sent to us, or printed elsewhere, during the
seven years which have followed it. On this ground alone the time
has plainly come for another stock-taking ;—which in consequence
of other engagements of Mrs. Sidgwick's it devolves upon me to
attempt.1
The evidence, I say, has grown in the way which was to be expected
if precognition were-—and hardly unless it were—a true fact in
nature. And at the same time the whole question has gradually
assumed a new aspect. In the earlier years of our research the
evidence for precognition was entirely divorced from experiments ;
was derived from sources almost wholly separate from our sources of
evidence to other supernormal phenomena ; and even had it bulked
large enough for acceptance on its own merits, would in its nature
and scope have found no manifest link with other results of our
enquiry.
In each of these three respects there has been an improvement in
the situation. In the first place, there is now a beginning—it is not
yet more—of actual experiment in this direction, from which experi
ment seemed wholly excluded. In place of the spontaneous, confused,
imperfectly remembered dreams which still form the main bulk of
our evidence for precognition, we are now sometimes able to substitute
those voluntary, externalised, and easily recordable visions which
constitute the " crystal pictures " to which attention has begun to
be directed, and which include a small percentage of precognitive
scenes.
As I have often urged, the first discovery of an actual method of
experiment—however difficult and uncertain—in such an enquiry as
this brings it at once out of a region where we can never count on
advance into a region where, if sufficient diligence be used, progress
must in time follow.
1 1 shall assume that the reader is familiar not only with the cases, but with the
evidential criticisms in the article referred to. I am treating the subject in a
somewhat different manner ; but those criticisms of course continue to apply equally
to the cases which I shall quote.
2 c 2
336 F. W. H. Myers.
In the second place, the lapse of years has now allowed us to
observe with some continuity the experiences of a good many
informants ; and in most cases we have found that where there is
frequent telepathy or clairvoyance, there is pretty sure also to be some
anomaly in the time-relations of the phenomena which no simple
formula (such as a supposed latency of telepathic impressions) will
serve to explain. Our living sources, that is to say, of telepathic and
of precognitive evidence are now in many cases the same.
And thirdly, as we get some further glimpse into the laws which
underlie our varied phenomena, we see more clearly that retrocognition
and precognition— supernormal knowledge of Past and Future—cannot
safely be set aside as isolated problems ;—as fortresses which we may
leave behind us unattacked as we advance over our newly conquered
realm. On the contrary, our work tends to become more and more
emphatically an exploration of faculty ;—not merely a collection of
evidence to particular occurrences, but a following out of every clue
which may lead to knowledge of what is actually going on beneath the
threshold while certain resulting phenomena are showing themselves
above it. We must search for the natural groups into which our cases
fall ; contenting ourselves no longer with the first obvious lines of
classification.
On no side, then, may we leave supernormal phenomena unattacked.
We must not take for granted their relation to any great category of
human thought. Their relation to time is as unknown to us a priori
as is their relation to space or to physical causation. Their relation to
space, indeed, was necessarily our first subject of enquiry. Our first
task was to prove that space is bridged by some form of mental trans
mission which no known laws will explain. Into this enquiry time
only entered in so far as it was needful to prove temporal coincidence,
in order to prove causal connexion, between the event in one place and
its spiritual repercussion in another.
And could our enquiry have been arrested here there would be a
comparative simplicity even in our novel conclusions. In a universe
where instantaneous gravitation operates unexplained,—where a world
of ether coexists with a world of matter,—men's minds must needs have
a certain openness to other mysterious transmissions ; must be ready to
conceive other invisible environments or co-existences, and in a sense
to sit loose to the conception of Space, regarded as an obstacle to
communication or cognition. A similar emancipation from the
limitations of Time is more difficult. We can, of course, imagine
increased powers of remembering the Past, of inferring the Future.
But we can hardly conceive the Past revived, save in some mind which
has directly observed it. And to imagine the Future as known, except
by inference and contingently, to any mind whatever is to induce at
The Subliminal Self. 337
once that iron collision between Free Will, and "Fixed Fate, Fore
knowledge absolute," from which no sparks of light have ever yet been
struck. Still more unwelcome is the further view that the so-called
Future actually already exists ; and that apparent time-progression is
a subjective human sensation, and not inherent in the universe as that
exists in an Infinite Mind.
Nor shall we in fact find it necessary to insist upon any very
revolutionary line of explanation. There is one analogy which will
meet most of our evidence (although not all), and to which we shall
repeatedly recur as our simplest guide. As is the memory and the
foresight of a child to that of a man, even such, I shall suggest, is the
memory and the foresight of the man's supraliminal self as compared
to the retrocognition and the precognition exercised by an intelligence
unrestrained by sensory limits ;—whether that intelligence belong to
the man's own subliminal self, or to some unembodied spirit. I main
tain that in this thesis there is nothing incredible ;—nay, that it is the
necessary corollary of belief in the existence anywhere of any extension
of the powers which we habitually exercise.
If there is a transcendental world at all there is a transcendental
view of Past and Future fuller and farther-reaching than the empirical ;
and in that view we may ourselves to some extent participate, either
directly, as being ourselves denizens all along of the transcendental
world, or indirectly, as receiving intimations from spirits from whom
the shadow in which our own spirits are " half lost " has melted
away.
This I believe to be the central reflection to which the study of
supernormal knowledge of Past and Future at present points us ; and
I shall be well satisfied if the evidence which I shall adduce should
persuade the reader that in some undefined fashion we share at
momenta in this transcendental purview. As to the precise manner in
which we share it, the difficulties are just those which meet us when, in
any other group of our phenomena, we try to distinguish between the
activity of the automatist's own spirit, and of other spirits, embodied
or unembodied, and perhaps also of a World-Soul or of Intelligences
above anthropomorphic personification. But this uncertainty will be a
secondary matter ; since our first business in this little-explored region
will be simply to collect trustworthy experiments, well-evidenced
narratives, and to cement them together with only just so much of
theoretic mortar as may enable them to be surveyed without needless
wnfusion.
Such will be my course in the two chapters which follow, in which
I shall in the first place briefly describe the general character of our
evidence for retrocognition and precognition ; shall then cite the
narratives; and shall finally give a diagrammatic and provisional
338 F. W. H. Myers.
view of what I conceive to be their relations to each other, and to
other supernormal facts.
The general characteristic, then, of these occurrences is to show us
fragments of knowledge coming to us in obscure and often symbolical
ways, and extending over a wider tract of time than any faculty
known to us can be stretched to cover. On the one side there is
retrocognition, or knowledge of the past, extending back beyond the
reach of our ordinary memory ; on the other side there is precognition,
or knowledge of the future, extending onwards beyond the scope of
our ordinary inference.
In each direction, indeed, there are certain landmarks ; the regres
sion and the progression alike seem to develop gradually, and to follow
lines which we can learn to recognise. In the direction of the Past we
begin with hypermnesia ; our first step lies in the conception that what
has once been presented to our sensory field, although never gathered
into what we deem our conscious perception, may nevertheless have
been perceived and retained by the subliminal self. It is partly
through dream and partly by automatic artifices that this fact is
realised ; and those same dreams, those same artifices of script or vision,
presently carry us a step further, and reveal a knowledge which must
have come from the memories of other living persons, or (as I hold)
of departed spirits. Then in another direction a less direct source of
knowledge opens out ; living organisms, our own or others', disclose
(in ways unknown to biology) the history implicate in their structure ;
objects which have been in contact with organisms preserve their
trace ; and it sometimes seems as though even inorganic nature could
still be made, so to say, luminescent with the age long story of its
past. Or it may even be that some retrocognitive picture is presented
which we may discover to be veracious, but with which we can discern
no spiritual or material link ; as though a page of the cosmic record
had been opened to us at random, and had closed again without sign
or clue.
And next let us look forward into the Future ;—across that im
palpable, almost imaginary line of the Present Moment, which for us is
the greatest reality of all. Naturally enough, the first time-confusion
which we find is a confusion affecting that present moment itself ;
namely, that sensation of already remembering what is happening or is
just about to happen to which some authors have applied the too wide
term paramnesia, but for which promnesia seems a more exact and
distinctive name. Next we have the wide range of suggestive phe
nomena, where the subliminal self possesses knowledge of the future
unshared by the supraliminal ; since the subliminal self has in fact
wound up the organism to strike a given note at a given hour.
Self-suggestion in turn merges into organic prevision ; where the
The Subliminal Self. 339
subliminal self foresees what will happen—not in consequence of any
determining effort of its own, but by virtue of its deeper knowledge
of the organism and of the changes which that organism must by
physiological laws undergo. This organic prevision may lead us far;
but as it grows more distant and complex, involving more and more
of a man's future environment, as well as of his future organic history,
it merges into a form of precognition which cannot depend on insight
into material bodies alone.
We now proceed, that is to say, along a line which is an
extension of ordinary intellectual inference. First comes hyperes-
thetic inference ;—that enlarged span of anticipation which acuter
sensory impressions permit ; as a sensitive patient will be able to
predict her doctor's visit when his step is merely heard in the
street, although others cannot recognise that step until it is close
to the bedroom door. Then comes an obscure point where this
hyperesthesia seems to pass into teltesthesia ;—-where sensory per
ception seems to cease, and supersensory, telepathic, or clairvoyant
perception to begin.
Thus to take the common instance of auditory hyperesthesia
alluded to above, Lady Eardley, (a witness already cited), tells me,—
and her husband, Commander de Lousada, confirms to me her
recollection,—that for some weeks, when she was in very weak health,
and also much distressed by a business matter, she distinguished from
her London bedroom the special sound which a heavy letter made in
falling into the letter box.1 I have listened from the same room, and
cannot myself hear any sound of letters falling in. But Lady
Eardley also knew, she says, that these heavy letters, or certain among
them, were latoyers' letters; and thinks that she did not discern this
by hearing alone. No notes were taken at the time, (some years
ago), and the account, therefore, is not evidential ; but it illustrates
the confused percipience which marks the line between hyperesthesia
and telsesthesia, when impressions are referred to a sensory channel
through which they may possibly have not really arrived. Some
of Mrs. Verrall's experiments (Proceedings Vol. XI., p. 184 ifec.),
illustrate the same form of confusion.
Well then, when we have definitely passed from the sensory to the
transcendental mode of perception, it is probable that our power of
inference as to the future will be greatly enlarged. We cannot,
indeed, guess how far this enlargement will extend. There is nothing
absolutely to forbid us to regard all precognitions as the result of
this wider outlook of the subliminal self.
1 Indications of a similar hyperesthesia were observed by Dr. Hodgson with
Miss Mollie Fancher ;—a sensitive well-known in America.
840 F. W. H. Myers.
Nor shall I attempt to draw the line at which this telesthetic in
ference ceases. If I do still look further for other sources of precogni
tion, this is partly because in some cases I think that there is actual
evidence that the precognition comes from a disembodied intelligence ;
and partly also on the wider ground that I distrust all explanations
which give to man, embodied or disembodied, any monopoly of the
transcendental world. The simplicity of our instinctive anthropo
morphism is not the simplicity of truth ;—it is no more so, when we
are thus dealing with intelligences which may be far above our ken,
than when the savage ascribes to a man-like demon the movements
and influences of gross inanimate things.
But first, as I have said, I ascribe some precognitions to the
reasoned foresight of disembodied spirits, just as I ascribe some retro-
cognitions to their surviving memory. I have tried in an earlier paper
to show ground for believing that some spirits have a continued
knowledge of some earthly affairs ; and if they have such knowledge,
and can show us that they have it, they may presumably reveal to us
also their not infallible inferences from what they know.
Thus far I have been indicating roads along which I fancy that
believers in any kind of transcendental faculty will some day be forced
to travel. What follows is a speculation, or suspicion, which no
records or experiments of ours can prove, but which seems to me to
loom behind them all. I suspect, then, that it is not by wider purview,
wiser inference alone, that finite minds, in the body or out of it, have
attained to knowledge of what yet must be. I imagine that the
Continuity of the Universe is complete ; and that therefore the
hierarchy of intelligences between our minds and the World-Soul is
infinite ; and that somewhere in that ascent a point is reached
where our conception of time loses its accustomed meaning. To
Plato's "Spectator of all Time and of all Existence" there may be
no barrier between Then and Now. The idea, of course, is familiar
enough to philosophical speculation. The novelty is that this, with
many other ideas which have hitherto floated gaseously inter apices
philosophies, like helium in the atmosphere of the sun, may now
conceivably be tested in earthly laboratories and used as a working
explanation for undeniable facts. For the moment I say no more ; the
reader will judge with the cases before him whether amid contingent
prefigurements we find something of inevitable ; or among individual
ised inferences some trace of a Cosmic Mind.
We shall have to set forth evidence illustrative of each of these
main lines of speculation in turn. But before we embark definitely
on either our backward or our forward survey, we are met by a familiar
psychological puzzle, of no great evidential significance, but yet afford
The Subliminal Self. 341
ing a useful introduction to further problems. I allude to the sensation,
much discussed in France of late, of the deja vu ; the feeling which
many men have experienced, "I have lived through all this before, and
I know what will happen this next minute."1
Ordinary explanations of promnesia (as I shall call this sensation)
follow two main types.
1. The reminiscence is a true one, depending (a) on a past waking
experience, or (6) on a past dream which some similarity in circum
stances recalls to memory.
2. The reminiscence is illusory, depending (a) on a kind of malady
of perception or attention affecting the whole personality, or (6) on
some sort of splitting of the personality, as, for instance, on asynchron-
ism of cerebral hemispheres, etc.
1 (a). It is probable that most of my readers share the belief
which was my own so long as I argued from my personal promnesic
sensations in boyhood ; namely, that a confused recollection of
actual past events gave rise to the feeling that I knew what was
going to happen. This view was supported by the triviality of the
occasions when I had the feeling, as in the course of some familiar
game or talk. Until one learns how small a fraction of human
sensation or emotion one's own capacity comprehends, one is apt to
think that the strongest records of what others feel are mere
exaggerated descriptions of something one has felt oneself. And
often, after all, this is true ; and probably a large proportion of
promnesic experiences have this simple source.
1 (b). It is obviously possible also that a suddenly evoked
reminiscence of a past dream may give rise to the feeling of " deja vu,"
—of having witnessed the actual scene at some indefinite time before.
If such coincidence with a previous dream were a merely casual one,
this heading would be a mere variety of 1 (a). The really important
question—to which we must presently return—is whether the con
nexion may be other than casual, whether the dreamer may in some
supernormal way have visited the scene, or anticipated the experience,
which he was destined afterwards to behold or to undergo.
2 (a). The hypothesis of some kind of interruption or indecision in
the acts of perception and attention, giving rise to a confused location
1 It seems to me undesirable to give to this phenomenon the name paramnesia,
as has been commonly done of late. The word paramnesia should mean simply
' erroneous or morbid memory,"—as paresthesia and parageusia (for instance) mean
erroneous or morbid sensation or taste. It is inconvenient to try to narrow a word of
this general type to connote one small group of phenomena ; not to say that it is
**f!?ing the question to assume that those phenomena are in any way morbid. The
Paradoxical term *' promnesia,"—memory beforehand- seems to me to express unmis
takably the paradoxical sensation under review,—and to express nothing more.
342 F. W. H. Myers.
in time of the object perceived, has been worked out in various
ways, all of which seem purely hypothetical.1 Such confusions may
exist, but they can in any case explain only the slighter and moment
ary forms of promnesia, not those cases where the sensation of memory
becomes definite enough to attract to it the percipient's full and
deliberate attention.
2 (b). The old idea of a lack of precise concordance between the
perceptions of the two cerebral hemispheres seems to be scouted on
the Continent, but is still occasionally revived in England. (See Brain,
Winter number, 1895.) I cannot myself see how a functional
asynchronism of this sort can be proved except by indications of a
definitely right-handed or left-handed character—such as mirror-
writing—none of which have, so far as I know, been as yet noted in
direct connection with promnesia. It would not, indeed, surprise me
if they were so observed, since I have in an earlier paper, (Proceedings,
Vol. III., p. 1), collected some indications that the subliminal self
sometimes manifests itself preferentially through the right or less-used
hemisphere ; and since I am also disposed to think, (as I must now
explain), that one among many causes of promnesia may lie in a
double perception of the present moment by the subliminal and the
supraliminal self.
This view, although it must inevitably remain a conjecture like the
rest, rests at any rate upon a plausible deduction from what I regard as
the facts of subliminal hyperesthesia, hypermnesia, telsesthesia. If the
subliminal self notes and remembers more than the supraliminal,
its process of perception must be in some way different and superior,
even when concerned with objects within the ordinary sensory field.
And this difference in mode of perception may sometimes involve a
duplication or confusion of the sense of time.
To understand this let us endeavour to realise the apparently
simple, but really complex notion of the actual present moment.
The true Present is an evanescent, an infinitesimal thing. It is
the imaginary meeting-point between two eternities ; and the more
finely we divide Time the less is left which is not Past or Future. But
for us men the "specious present," as it has been well called, is a solid
" duration-block," consisting of a small fragment of Time Past p/u* a
still smaller fragment of indistinguishably vivid anticipation of Time
Future ;—the length and context of the duration-block being con
ditioned for each of us by our several organisms.
Let me consider in what ways this " specious present " of mine is
obviously defective.
1 See various papers in the Revue Philosophique for 1894, or summarised in the
Annie Psychologiquc for 1895.
The Subliminal Self. 843
Tn the first place I observe that my perception of the actual
moment is always retarded, and is irregularly retarded ; so that it
is both in arrear as a whole and also blurred by the trails or
prolongations of special perceptions which are still more in arrear
than the rest.
In the second place I observe that the span of my present,—my
protensive span, to adopt a word of Hamilton's,—is after all so short, in
spite of its tardiness and its blurring trails, that the actual external
or organic event of the instant is only dimly intelligible to me, and
needs to be perpetually explained by memory and anticipation. Let
us consider these complaints in order.
1. The retardation of our perception of the content of the actual
moment by the necessary journey of our impressions from end-organ
to sensorium is matter of common knowledge, and even of practical
inconvenience, where, as in astronomy, exact measurements of time
are needed and " personal equations " have to be allowed for.
2. Our perception is irregularly retarded, not only by the variable
media of our environment, which split up one instantaneous event into
past, present, and future (as when I recollect the lightning and antici
pate the thunder), but also by the nature of our nervous system, which
, continues the heterogeneous changeable character of the environment,
and makes perception slower at some moments than at others, and at
some peripheral points than at others,—so that a tap on the leg appears
later in time than a simultaneous flash in the eyes.
3. Our perception is blurred by the reverberation of our sense-
organs, which, having been stirred into one special thrill, cannot
instantly arrest it and start on another.
4. Our protensive span suffices us under familiar conditions, but is
inadequate in sudden crises. The presence of mind which then becomes
so important means, in fact, a resolute maintenance of the protensive
span of the specious present, so that the immediate past may be firmly
realised and the immediate future foreseen ; in place of the mere
bewildered instantaneous consciousness of shock to which the present
is then apt to shrink.1
Let us consider in a simple example the effect of all these weak
nesses together upon our perception of a given scene, as compared
with what that perception might be, were it direct and unhindered by
organic disabilities. A horse leaps a fence, and goes through attitudes
ABODE, with sounds corresponding to each moment of movement
through the air. Now most of the details of this moving scene,—the
separate hairs of the horse, the minor noises,—lie beyond my sensation
altogether. What I do perceive is a general effect, irregularly retarded.
1 On all this see Prof. James' Principles of Psychology, Vol. I., chaps. XV., XVI.
344 F. W. H. Myers.
When the horse is at E I hear him at A and see him mainly at C ; but
a trail of vision persisting from A and B gives me, in fact, a confused
dissolving view of ABC, modified by a dim but irresistible foresight
of D. Meantime (let us say) an instantaneous camera photographs
the horse in each attitude, and thus decomposes my dissolving view
into a series of definite successive pictures.
Now suppose, for argument's sake, that while my supraliminal self
is looking through my eyes, my subliminal self is looking through
the camera ; and that when the horse is at E the self which views
the first prospect becomes partially aware of the self which views the
second; somewhat as happens in "competition of visual fields," when
one looks through a stereoscope which offers a different scene to right
and left eyes. What will the result be ? When the horse is actually
at E I shall, as before, see him at C ; but I shall have also an impres
sion that I have seen him at C already,—and that I know, moreover,
that he will pass through D and E,—up to the point at which the sub
liminal self has already registered the pictures.
Now this exactly corresponds to the promnesic sensation, which,
along with the impression that the present moment has been traversed
already, contains the impression that the immediate future has been
lived through also, and is already known. At any given moment, of
course, the subliminal perception would be only a fraction of a second
in advance of the supraliminal ; but the coalescence of consciousnesses
might last for some time, much as it does in the case of automatic
writing or other automatisms. This explanation would not apply to
cases where the subject believes himself to have a knowledge of facts
not instantly impending ; such a knowledge of a place, for instance, as
enables him to guide others about it, or such a knowledge of words yet
unuttered as enables him to forestall them by speech or act. Cases of
that kind, though sometimes classed with promnesia, really present a
different problem, and will be considered further on.
In the meantime I can perhaps best explain what has been said
aboveby a few extracts from a paper by M. Lalande (RevuePhilosophique,
November, 1893), in which that psychologist, who seems to have been
at more pains than any one else as yet to collect first-hand statements
as to promnesia, comes to a conclusion essentially the same as that to
which the facts which we in England have collected seem to me to
point.
Dealing then with this phenomenon, M. Lalande, while of course
recognising that the ordinary explanations will cover many cases, con
siders nevertheless that we often have here a supernormal fact, accom
panied by subjective symptoms such as trifling errors of memory do not
produce. The feeling is said to be sometimes accompanied by a dis
tressing emotion which may become actual terror. Among the phrases
The SMiminal Self. 345
used are "a disquietude," "an oppression on the chest," "a kind of
vertigo." Other subjects remark that the feeling is like that of
nightmare, and gives the impression of a world other than that in
which we live. The subjects of promnesia, however, do not seem to be
specially morbid or nervous persons ; the main fact noticeable about
them being that they have often also experiences of veritable telepathy
or precognition. I translate, with slight abridgement, M. Lalande's
principal reflections, (loc. ext. p. 495.)
" It is possible in the first place that paramnesia may be produced by
that singular and almost indefinite acceleration which thought occasionally
assumes. The striking examples quoted by M. Taine place beyond doubt
the capacity of the human spirit to represent to itself in a few seconds series
of conscious states whose ordinary subjective duration would occupy several
hours. On the other hand we must remember that we are never conscious of
aU the perceptions which we experience at a given moment. Compare these
two facts. You are presented with a new landscape, and you receive thence
a mass of images which your intelligence does not at once comprehend, but
which enter therein none the less, like an instantaneous photograph. Sup
pose then a distraction of the tenth of a second, during which your thoughts
iy elsewhere, and rapidly summarise a subjective period say of ten or fifteen
minutes ;—what will happen when you return from the distraction ? You
will behold and recognise the scene which your thought quitted for a
moment, but you will not refer the first act of perception to its right place
in time ;—in the first place on account of the partially unconscious character
of the original perception ; but especially on account of the apparent length
of the moment of distraction. The second perception might thus easily
assume that form of spatial prevision which it wore with M. Sch. (who feels
that certain things ought to be in certain places in a room really seen for the
first time, and on looking attentively finds that these things are there.)
" But something more is needed to explain prevision in time, which
appears to be real according to the evidence quoted above. It seems that
between simple cases of paramnesia and sensations called telepathic, there
exists a series of intermediate cases, which connect the two by insensible
transitions. Numerous facts accumulated during several years by hypnotists,
doctors,and psychologists, give some appearance of probabilityto the existence
of a very powerful hyperesthesia, which is almost always unconscious, and
which permits objects to be seen at a distance, or under quite unusual
conditions. This second sight may be simply an excitation of the senses
already known, or it may arise, as has often been suggested, from a different
sensorium, rudimentary as yet, which might assist sight by extending it, as
sight assists the sense of touch. It is unnecessary for the present question
to decide between these two hypotheses ; either would do equally well.
I shall then call this abnormal and unconscious perception "telepathy"
without entering on the question of its cause.
" But if it is admitted that by accident a more or less intense excitement
of the mind brings it into play, the result ought really to be, to make us see
the same object twice, in a time which will often be very limited. Thus on
seeing a blow coming one believes one feels it beforehand. Let us take an
346 F. W. H. Myers.
example to make the idea clear : I am walking with a friend ; he is thinking
a sentence which he is about to utter. A telepathic sensation is produced and
I perceive clearly the inward speech in which he has thought his sentence.
But this perception to which I am unaccustomed remains unnoticed if the
sentence is not really pronounced. If on the contrary he pronounces it
immediately, the auditive sensation will immediately awake in the hidden
depths of my mind the same perception that I had a minute ago ; I shall
think I recognise it, or rather I shall really recognise it. The only mistake
will be in projecting my remembrance into a more or less far-off past in order
to explain to myself its confused character, which belongs only to its origin.
'' But it is very evident that this special sensation would be likely to
become equally apparent under the influence of other causes, such as dream,
passion, hypnotism, and perhaps many other physiological agents, which
have not yet been remarked. The transitions between the two phenomena
would thus be quite natural. Quite natural also would be the comparison
made by observers between paramnesic prevision and a straying memory
just " on the tip of one's tongue." There would be the same passage from
unconsciousness to perfect consciousness. This fact also would be explained,
that very often persons, who experience the most distinct cases of paramnesia,
state that they frequently have veridical presentiments also. This is the case
with M.M. L , Bo T, , amongst observers whom we have quoted.
The frequency of paramnesia with children again renders the existence of
this special sensation probable. With them as with savages the senses
are more subtle and impressionable than with developed men. Life
blunts our sensibility little by little, and above all, crystallises it in a set
form. The organs of children on the contrary, more supple and more easily
modifiable, respond to slight actions (movements) to which our intellectual
hardening has rendered us insensible."
The following case illustrates the kind of incident (familiar enough
in these Proceedings) which M. Lalande finds not uncommon in the
experience of his promnesics.
" I was at one time (says his informant) the pupil of Father B., a Jesuit,
with whom I continued to correspond. After a silence of eighteen months,
I felt one day some remorse, and I wrote him a letter to the Jesuit College at
Dole, where he was Professor. Shortly afterwards I was suddenly awakened
in the middle of the night by a hand placed on my arm ; and I heard
the voice of Father B. saying to me, ' My dear friend, I am no longer at
Dole ; I am professor of mathematics at the College of Saint Michel, at
Saint-Etienne.' I lit my candle and looked about me ; I saw no one, and
nothing unusual ; I went to sleep again, supposing that it had been a dream.
Noxt morning I received a letter from Father B., beginning with the very
phrase which I had heard in the night. I was absolutely ignorant that he
had changed his residence, or that there was a Jesuit college at Saint-
Etienne. The letter gave me quite a shock. "
This is not strictly a premonition, as the letter was already written
and passing through the post (Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 289); and its
occurrence to a man habitually subject to promnesia seems to point to
The Subliminal Self. 347
telepathy as the explanation of both phenomena. Thus, when this
same M. J repeated to a friend (Lalande, p. 488) initial phrases
yet unuttered of speeches in Ferdinand le Xoceur which he had never
heard or read, he may have derived these phrases telepathically from
the minds of the actors awaiting their cues to strike in. Somewhat
similarly, when a question is being passed down a class a boy pre
viously ignorant of the answer sometimes catclies it (it is said) from the
eager (though silent) knowledge of the boy standing just below him.
Sach little incidents are hardly capable of proof, but yet are worth
observation.
There are not, however, many of the more advanced promnesic
cases which telepathy would explain. Generally there is no other
mind apparently involved, and it simply seems as though the
promnesic either enjoyed at the moment a wider than ordinary
percipience, or had already visited in some supernormal way the
scene which he feels that he remembers. Now these are actually two
possibilities of which we have well-attested examples. A telsesthetic
extension of knowledge at the moment lies at the base of what we
are accustomed to call monitions ; and dreams premonitory of future
scenes or incidents form a great part of our evidence to precognition.
And it can make no theoretical difference whether the objects of
extended knowledge of either of these kinds are in themselves
momentous or trivial. It may be of great value to me to receive a
warning, through some supernormal faculty, that I am on the point of
walking into a dock in the dark ;—very valueless to apprehend
similarly that I shall come upon a church with a copper spire after
the next turn in the road ; but both impressions alike must fall for
the psychologist into the same category.
These small oscillations about the specious present, in short, when
ever they mean more than mere mistake and confusion, are strictly
analogous to the ampler oscillations with which we are in these
chapters mainly concerned.
And passing on now to retrospects and prospects of wider scope,
let us begin with the backward swing of the pendulum, and consider
to what extent our knowledge of the Past will sometimes open itself
beyond the familiar bounds. Brief discussion may serve, for many
points of detail have been already dealt with elsewhere.
Let us, then, begin our study of supernormal retrocognition by first
inquiring in what ways we ordinarily and normally acquire our
knowledge of the Past. We acquire such knowledge partly from
direct personal memory, and partly from retrospective inference
based on what we see or hear. We might, indeed, define memory as
an acquisition of fresh potential changes of consciousness concomitant
with changes in our organism, which imply certain past events as
348 F. W. H. Myers.
their cause. But this definition, which sounds natural enough when
applied to diffused or organic memories, such as the cricketer's
memory of the feel of the bat, would seem pedantic if applied to
the minute cerebral changes which accompany the learning of a
new fact. In such a case we ignore in common speech the real
organic change which the learning of any fact implies in us, and we
merely refer to the specialised sensory channel through which the
information comes to us—as hearing, reading, and so forth. In a
vague but quite intelligible way, we thus mark off organic memory
from definite sensory or intellectual memories.
In our inquiry into retrocognition it will be well to keep roughly
to some division of this sort, and to begin by inquiring into the
extensions which seem to be given to organic memory.
We know, of course, that there is a great difference between our
evocable memory—that which we can summon up and use at will—and
that much ampler memory which we must suppose to exist, in some
potential form at least, imprinted upon our organism. The faint and
crude recollections of sensations and movements, which are all that we
can call into ordinary consciousness, would be far from enabling us to
recognise sensations, or to repeat movements, as we actually do recognise
and repeat them. The study of hypnotic suggestion, moreover, has
shown us how these potential or latent memories may be grasped and
used. The increased power over the organism which the subject
under suggestion shows necessarily implies an increased memory
of the organism's past ; the hyperboulia, as I have termed it, is
hypermnesia as well. That wider will-power, indeed, is probably no
more aware of the exact mechanism which it employs in its control of
secretions, ifec., than I am of the exact mechanism by which I raise my
hand to my head. And, similarly, the hypnotic memory is probably
itself very shallow as compared to what a complete summation of all
the lapsed memories of the organism might be. But already we find it
descending deeply to gland and blood-vessel, implicated as these are in
stigmatisation and similar phenomena, and we can draw no clear line
below which all organic consciousness must cease, and memory must
become no more than a metaphor.
We cannot draw such a line, I say, either on the basis of smallness
of magnitude or of remoteness in time. We cannot assert that organic
memory may not inhere in a single cell or neuron, or even in a single
living molecule. Neither can we assert that organic memory cannot be
prolonged backwards before birth. Birth, indeed, is but an incident
in each organism's history; that organism has an embryonic life
before birth,—and a pre-embryonic life in countless lines of ancestry.
Although we no longer say with the " traducianist " schoolmen that
Adam's body included not only his own soul but the souls of all his
The Subliminal Self. 340
descendants, we still trace to ancestors more remote than Adam
characteristics which even now influence our psychical life.
It is a moot point how far the life-experiences of each organism
modify by what we regard as purely physiological transmission the
characteristics of its descendants. The rude suggestion (so to term it)
of the amputated limb, or other injury, is commonly not accepted by
the offspring ; the embryo develops unaffected by the shock which the
parent has undergone previously to the act of union. But if that
shock fall upon the mother during the embryo's life, and if it chance —
(in post-natal suggestions also there seems much of what we must
needs call chance in this)—if it chance to reach the mother's subliminal
self in effective fashion, it may then transfer itself to the embryo, and
imprint upon the child the organic memory of the mother's emotion of
admiration, disgust, or fear. No one doubts this form of heredity
when it is exhibited on a striking scale,—as with children born during
the alarms of a siege, or of the Reign of Terror in France. And I
believe that there is evidence enough (although I cannot quote it here)
to show that isolated and momentary suggestions—as the sight of a
crushed ankle or missing finger—may produce a definite localised
effect on the embryo in much the same way as a hypnotic suggestion
may produce a localised congestion or secretion.1
If, then, we thus find imprinted on the child's organism such a con
spicuous, specialised memory of perhaps an almost instantaneous
emotion of the mother's, we must surely suspect that his organism may
contain also some inborn memories less conspicuous and more purely
cerebral than such a gross phenomenon as a mark on the face or a
deformed finger. And by this new route we shall come round again to
something like the innate ideas of certain philosophical systems. Nor
can we absolutely limit such influence to the actual parent organism
alone. For aught we know, the " germ-plasm "—whatsoever may be
the continuous link of all generations—may be capable of reacting to
psychical suggestions as sensitively as the embryo. The shaping forces
which have made our bodies and our minds what they are may always
have been partly psychical forces,—from the first living slime-speck to
the complex intelligences of to-day.
This view is not inconsistent with the suggestion which I have made
elsewhere, that the human spirit's supernormal powers of telepathy and
tetesthesia are survivals from the powers which that spirit once exer
cised in a transcendental world. It may well be that the spirit already
modified by cosmic experiences dating back to infinity may inform the
1 To what extent the nature of the connexion between the maternal and the
wnbryonic organism may modify the mechanism of suggestion this is not the place
to inquire.
2 d
350 F. W. H. Myers.
body already modified by terrene experiences dating back to the first
appearance of life on our planet. Both the old traducianist and the
old transmigrationist view would thus possess a share of truth ; and the
actual man would be the resultant not only of intermingling heredities
on father's and mother's side, but of intermingling heredities, one of
planetary and one of cosmic scope.
I, at any rate, follow those who can see no fundamental dividing-line
between the most purely intellectual act of memory,—say the recollec
tion of a mathematical formula,—and the habit or predetermination
which has made each new cell in a man's body take on the peculiarities
of its predecessor,—back till the time when the segments of the
fertilised ovum took on the peculiarities of their progenitors. The
introduction of consciousness into this series is, I conceive, a quite
gradual process ; our own human consciousness being merely a casual
intermediate point between such dim unnamed self-awareness as may
pervade at least all sentient things, and that far intenser consciousness
which mortal man forefeels only in some moment of ecstacy.
The physiological changes which follow upon self-suggestion
depend, in my view, upon a revival of memories which have long
lapsed from supraliminal consciousness ; upon a recurrence to primitive
powers, exercised in days when all that the organism had to attend to
consisted in processes of absorption, secretion, and so forth. And
somewhat similarly I hold that much which we now term hyperesthesia
may rather consist of some rudimentary sense of unfamiliar type
derived from a primitive pancestltesia, or diffused undifferentiated
sensibility, from which our special senses, and the special senses of
other animals, have developed under the pressure of special needs.
As to telepathy and telresthesia, the case is different. I do not say
that these powers may not have existed in our lowly ancestors, or may
not now exist among the inferior animals, but I cannot regard them as
faculties dependent (as the senses are dependent) upon the vitalisation
of matter. Rather I hold them as a part of our inheritance upon
the other—-the cosmic—side of our descent. They belong to the
transcendental world and to our transmigrationist pedigree ; and
have been, I take it, not fostered but concealed by this planetary
alliance between spirit and matter.
For the present, however, our inquiry concerns the traducianist
aspect of heredity alone. We have to consider, that is to say,
whether any of the phenomena of retrocognition which lie before us
are explicable as extensions of organic memory ;—as evocations into
daylight consciousness of imprints made in this life, or in ancestral
lives, upon our physical being. So much of intellectual predisposition
is hereditary that it would be rash to fix d priori any point where a
memory was too definite to be capable of transmission. It is a
The Subliminal Self. 351
question of evidence ; but I may say at once that for an ancestral
memory as definite as would here be needed there seems to me to be
at present no adequate evidence, and that the hypothesis is worth
mentioning mainly because any other explanation of some of these
facts or pictures from a remote past, with which we shall presently
have to deal, seems at first to be still more incredible.
While, therefore, I do not at present see evidence that memories
either of words or of scenes can be inherited, T think we ought to be
on the watch for cases like the following, where the writer, the Rev.
W. S. Lach-Szyrma, believes that there was an innate cerebral picture,
due to parental suggestion :—
P. 252. Hereditary Memory.
To the Editor of the " Joi-rnal of the Society for Psychical Research."
Sir,—There is one obscure subject on which I should like to see an
inquiry by the Society for Psychical Research. I mean hereditary memory.
I know it is usually accepted, even by sceptical physiologists, that we
inherit instincts and habits from our ancestors. The case of a hereditary
passion for hunting in certain English families is adduced. Also certain
acts, e.g., in women a peculiar mode of threading a needle (as in one branch
of my own family) is hereditary. The Stuarts and Bourbons both had a
manifest and remarkable heredity of thought (which might result partly
from instinct, partly from education). But may not this power of inheri
tance extend still further, even to the recollection of certain places by
descendants, and may not this account for some cases at least of that well-
known mental phenomenon of persons feeling suddenly that they perfectly
recollect places and scenes where a moment's reflection shows that they
have never been in their lives ? I may explain what I mean by my own
experience.
In early childhood I was much given to day dreams, as many only
children of active imaginations are. Two scenes have haunted me many
hundred times, I am sure, though as I attained manhood they faded and
were only recollected as childhood's dreams. I will describe each of them.
They were two of my dominant scenes to the inner visual organs in child
hood.
1. A large village lying northward, with heaving plain and woodlands
in the back. In front there is a little stream crossed by a small bridge. It
is looked at from a hill. There is one church in that village, and a road
going north, and a park to the east. I have thought of that village a
hundred times and peopled it with imaginary people and quaint adventures,
as children will.
Now when I was an undergraduate in Oxford, my mother suggested my
going to visit Adderbury, which had been connected with our family since
1800, and where she had spent some of her childhood, staying with her
uncle who dwelt there. She intended going herself there, but was pre
vented. Still she told me to go there and see the old place, full of her
childhood's memories. I did so one winter's day. I came to a low hill, and
2 d 2
352 F. W. H. Myers.
there before me was almost exactly the scene of my childhood's dreams—
the large village, the little stream, the park, the woodlands, and the church.
Now my mother had never described to me Adderbury. It is curious I
should have thought of it, for, spending my childhood in Devon, I had
conceived a typical Oxfordshire village, totally unlike any place I had seen
in childhood.
2. Another scene was more curious and more persistent. It was a large
village near the sea, facing eastwards. The hill is very steep—so steep that
you must descend part of the way by steps. The houses are in terraces one
over the other. Above there is a woodland. I always thought I dwelt
there, and had a house on the north side. Hundreds of day dreams had I
of that village and its steps and terraces, and blue sea, but my home was
always on the north side and a little inland. Till last July, I never in all
my journeys had seen any place like that scene of my day dreams. I was
then asked to visit Clovelly in Xorth Devon, where my maternal ancestors
(my great grandmother was a Cary) had long lived. To my astonishment,
there were the terraces, the steep hill, the steps down to the sea facing east
ward, and to the north, Cary Court, where for ages our people had lived. I
saw in the church seven of the Cary tombs. Clovelly is described in West-
ward Ho, which I only read some years ago for the first time, and the
resemblance never struck me.
Are there not many other instances of this ancestral memory ?
W. S. Lach-Szykma.
Newlyn St. Peter, Penzance, February, 1890.
Thought-transference in childhood from the percipient's mother or
other relatives might probably suffice to explain a case of this kind.
And we shall find cases where a scene similarly viewed in advance can
never have been looked upon by any ancestor of the percipient's.
Leaving now the question of an ancestral memory, let us speak of
the organic memory of impressions received by each man during his
own past life. In my chapter on Hypermnesic Dreams, Proceeding*,
Vol. VIII., p. 362, I set forth evidence tending to show the possibility
that all definite sensory experiences of this present life may be pre
served in a subliminal memory. I would now suggest in addition that
there may be a conservation of the psychical aspect of the past organic
sensation itself, as well as of the resultant condition from which that
past sensation may be inferred. In the case of a pain, there will thus
be the instant pain, then its brief resonance through the organism,
then its permanent picture, so to call it, which can still be revived as
painful, and lastly the symbolized memory, no longer actively painful,
which we use when we wish to recall the fact of the pain. I speak
first of a pain, since that is a comparatively definite thing, approaching
near to the sensations due to specialised end-organs, of which also we
shall soon see that similar records remain. But I would extend this
suggestion to all states of organic sensibility, including, for instance,
The Subliminal Self. 353
the possible revival in adult life of the freshness of youth, or
the possible renewal of the sensation of hungry emptiness after a
copious meal.
The following cases illustrate what has Wen said, lxlth as to the
continuous perception exercised by the subliminal self,—none the less
when the supraliminal self has been held in abeyance by chloroform,—
and also as to the possibility of a revival—preferably in a half-dreaming
state, as with illusions hypnagogiques.
The cases were contributed by a surgeon, Associate of the S.P.R.
P. 251.
The Subliminal Consciousness at Work during the Influence of an
ax.esthetic.
(1) On November 3rd, 1893, a middle-aged woman was operated on for a
bony tumour of the upper jaw. She was of course under an aiwesthetic.
When she awoke, after completion of the operation, she said she had no
recollection whatever of what had occurred. When I called on her, on
Xovember 7th, she said she had had severe neuralgia during the night in the
situation of the operation. During the continuance of this pain, and while
half awake and half asleep, she thought she could follow each step of the
operation of November 3rd. She described the cutting and slipping of the
steel chisel, the blows of the mallet, and scraping back of the gum—in fact,
it seemed to her that she underwent the whole operation again.
(2) A lady to whom I told the above said she once took "gas" for a tooth
extraction. This was quite successful, for she "felt nothing." But on an
occasion subsequent to this she had a return of toothache—some time in the
night. She declared that she could then feel all the symptoms of becoming
unconscious while inhaling the gas ; then came the digging of the forceps to
get a grip on the tooth, the wrench, and awful pain — every detail was " felt "
now, although her waking consciousness had been quite unaware of any pain
during the actual extraction.
(3) I have many times noted that people while antusthetised, who do not
feel pain in the ordinary sense, and who on coming to themselves declare that
they did feel no pain during the operation, have struggled, groaned, spoken,
or given some other evidence that some stratum of their consciousness was
awake during the anesthesia, and was being impressed by the pain of the
operation.
The above appears to show that the subliminal consciousness does take
Bote of what is going on, while the work-a-day self is oblivious to all external
stimuli when under the influence of an anesthetic ; and that the memory of
this subliminal self may be brought to the surface by some appropriate
stimulus, such as the neuralgia, which, we may note, occurred between sleep
ing and waking—that is, at a time when the subliminal is more active than
the supraliminal stratum of our conscious personality.
Analogous to the foregoing is the fact similar in hypnotism, where it is
often possible to recall a memory in the subject after awakening of what has
heen done and said during his hypnosis.
354 F. W. H. Myers.
Note to Case I. —The patient did not see the operator's instruments at all,
nor was she told after the operation how it was done, but merely that the
tumour had been cut away entirely and successfully. No one was present at
the operation except the patient, operator, and myself. The operation was
described by the patient as accurately as a non-medical person was likely to
do. It may be thought that she was enabled to describe the operation by her
vivid imagination ; but under the circumstances I should regard this "vivid
imagination " as only another name for her subliminal memory.
With regard to Case II., as I was not present during the extraction of the
teeth, I know none of the details.
In each of these two cases I was of course careful not to suggest to the
patient the details of the operation—such as " Did you feel this or that 1 " I
merely asked them twice over to tell me what they felt. Both the patients
were thoroughly under the influence of the anesthetic—chloroform in the
first case, and nitrous oxide gas in the second.
C. Theodore Green,
M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., London.
Somewhat analogous to this revival in half-sleep of memories which
anesthetics had till then obscured, is the occasional revival during
drowning—or, in Charles Darwin's case, during a fall from a wall —
of a series of life-memories both swifter and fuller than conscious
effort could have supplied. Such cases can hardly be recorded in
detail by the percipient himself, but they are numerous enough to make
it pretty certain that the phenomenon is more than a mere subjective
illusion. In a case which I have heard from a friend, nearly drowned
in boyhood, the marked feature was the delightfulness of the panorama,
—a review of childish games, &c.—rising in the effortless fashion of
that subliminal uprush which we term a flash of genius. I suspect
that similar resurgences of lapsed memory occur both in health and
in disease more frequently than has yet been observed. Almost any
mental tempest may bring remote impressions to light,—as storms will
wash up cannon-balls on a long-since bombarded shore. " I knew one
man," says Dr. Olouston (Mental Diseases, p. 147), "who, as he was
passing into mania, could repeat a whole play of Shakespeare or a book
of Milton, which when well he could not do."1
Somewhat akin to this is the following case of revival during health,
—and during the deep sleep in which changes of personality are
generally effected,—of a special vividness of youthful memories. The
1 With quite healthy persons sudden and insistent memories sometimes occur,
with details fuller than could have been voluntarily called up. Thus a young officer
recounts the following experience, undergone while he was reading in bed, awake
and with calm mind :—" Everything that had happened since I first went to sea
flashed before me like a dissolving view ; places, events, faces, names, everything.
This lasted for over an hour, and then the picture faded away, and nothing but a
blurred impression remained. The effect it had on me made me feel uncomfortable
for a couple of days afterwards."
The SiMiminal Self. 355
accompanying telepathic phenomenon,—the discharge, if we may so
term it, of telergic energy,—perhaps testifies to the profound character
of the shock; as when similar phenomena occur at a moment of ex
ternal crisis, or at the change of death.
L 984. At Po Auditory.
From Mrs. Manning, who writes to Professor James as follows :—
105, Winter Street, Portland, Maine, October 28th [1894].
Dear Sir,—At the request of Colonel Woodhull, I send you the following
statement, which I hope may be of use to you.
When I was a child at my home in RcKhester, N.Y., my elder sister had
almost entire care of me. At night, after putting me in bed, she would sit
beside me for a few moments until I fell asleep. Frequently I would wake
up, and finding myself alone and in the dark, of which I was much afraid, I
would call out to her ; she would come and soothe me to sleep again. In
1875, I was living at Fort Hartsuff, Nebraska, a military post, the station of
my husband. Our nearest railway station was Grand Island, on the Union
Pacific Railroad, 75 miles away. My sister then lived at Omaha, about 300
miles east of Grand Island. Our mail reached us by buckboard from Grand
Island every Wednesday and Saturday. One night in November, I awoke
from a dreamless sleep, wide awake, and yet to my own consciousness the
little child of years ago, in my own room in the old home ; the sister had
gone, and I was alone in the darkness. I sat up in bed, and called with all
my voice, "Jessie ! Jessie !"—my sister's name. This aroused my husband,
who spoke to me. I seemed to come gradually to realisation of my
surroundings, and with difficulty adjusted myself to the present. In that
moment I seemed to live again in the childhood days and home. I cannot
express too strongly the feeling of actuality I had. For days after this the
strange impression was with me, and I could recall many little incidents and
scenes of child-life that I had entirely forgotten.
I wrote to my sister the next day, and told her of the strange experience
of the night before. In a few days I received a letter from her, the date the
same as mine, and having passed mine on the way, in which she said that
such a strange thing had happened the night before—that she had boon
awakened by my voice calling her name twice ; that the impression was so
strong that her husband went to the door to see if it could possibly be I. No
one else had called her ; she had not been dreaming of me. She distinctly
recognised my voice.
Mary M. Cxarkson Manning.
Captain Manning writes :—
Portland, Me., October 29th, 1894.
I distinctly recall the circumstances as related above by my wife.
W. C. Manning
(Captain 23rd Infantry, U.S. Army).
Mrs. Manning's sister and brother-in-law give their testimony as follows :—
Detroit, Mich., November 1st, 1894.
The statement made by my sister is as I remember the experience.
356 F. W. U. Myers.
That it made a deep impression upon us both is evidenced by each writing
of it to the other on the day following its occurrence. The impression made
was so forcible, it has never been forgotten.
Jessie Clarkson Thraix.
Detroit, Mich., November 1st, 1894.
The within statement of a curious coincidence might have been forgotten
by me during the past twenty years, had the facts not been recalled to my
memory from time to time as they have by the principal actors in it. I have
always regarded it as a strange coincidence, but nothing more.
I heard no call, but went to the door to satisfy my wife that her sister
was not in the hall. George Thrall
In reply to Dr. Hodgson's enquiries, Mrs. Manning informed him that
the original letters referred to had been destroyed long ago, and that neither
she herself nor her sister had ever had any similar experience.
Still more noticeable is another group of cases where the recent
impressions are in various ways suppressed in favour of the old. 'We
are familiar, in the first place, with what is termed ecmnesia,—the gap
sometimes left in memory after a blow on the head, or even after a
sudden emotional shock,—which gap may or may not include a period of
time before the shock as well as after it, and may or may not be ulti
mately filled up by a slow or hidden influx of recollection. The super
position of memories, so to term it, may in such cases be very curious.
Suppose that 1 have an ecmnesic gap from Monday to Thursday ; I
shall tack on the events of Thursday to the events of Monday, and
shall regard them as continuous ;—taking up the brain-cells, so to say,
at the point where Monday left them. But all the time a true memory
of Tuesday and Wednesday will have formed itself and will be waiting
to appear ; so that perhaps on Saturday I shall discover that my brain
on Thursday was by no means, as I had imagined, still in its Monday
condition. Yet I have been working on Thursday and Friday upon
the basis of the old Monday brain-condition which, in an ordinary
view, would be held to have been irrevocably altered by Tuesday's
events, and thus to have passed away for ever.
The various forms and stages of double personality, so often men
tioned in these Proceedings, exhibit a similar phenomenon. Louis
Viv6, for example (Proceedings, Vol. IV., p. 29, &c.), could, by certain
empirical processes, be made a boy again at will, reverting to the
memory and character belonging to the age at which any given
distribution of his defective nervous energy had last prevailed in his
organism. Or, again, in a case observed by Dr. Pitres, of Bordeaux,
(Revue de V'Hypnotisme, January, 1891, p. 201), the recovery of
youthful sensation and nervous integrity was the affair of a moment.
" When the patient is carried back by her delirium [or by suggestion] to
The Subliminal Self. 357
the time when she was six or seven years old, not only does she express
herself and amuse herself like a child, but her hemianesthesia has
disappeared, and her hysterogenous zones, very active in her ordinary
life, have lost their excitability."
I will add another example which may tend to show that these
renewals of former states of organic sensation affect the whole system
in a way that no voluntary effort of mind can rival. Hardly anything
affects our normal ccencesthesia or general organic sensations more deeply
than the alternation of hunger and repletion. Yet the elder Despine,
a most careful observer, reports as follows as regards the changes
effected by light hypnotic trance in his well-known patient " Estelle."
" The aliments," he says (Medeciiie Pratique, p. 47) " taken in
abundance during the trance ^when she was able to eat freely] did not
seem to have satisfied her in the smallest degree on her return to the
waking state, and vice versd. In fact, whenever Estelle passed from
one of these conditions to the other, she never failed to experience in
her new form of existence the physical appetites and needs appropriate
to the new state. How did her digestive organs arrange themselves to
effect this singular phenomenon ? Where did all the food go which had
assuaged the devouring hunger of the state of trance?—and how could
all those cold drinks of beer, coffee, snow and ice, milk of almonds,
raspberry vinegar, and so forth, leave room a few moments afterwards
for the thin broths of herbs, &c., and the vegetables which in her nor
mal state had long formed her only nourishment ; and all this when
the food taken in the trance could not possibly have been so far
digested as to allow any appetite to be felt ? "
Allied, I think, to this power of subliminally arresting and recalling
wganic sensations which for the waking self are lost beyond discovery,
is a phenomenon for which there is some evidence in the records of
early mesmerism. I mean the power possessed by some entranced
patients of a self-diagnosis profounder (as some physicians then said)
than medical skill could have attained. Such self-diagnosis of the
patient is still sought and obtained with success by Janet and others
in the special case of hysteria ; where the hysteric, under skilful
hypnotic treatment, can recall and reveal the long-forgotten incident
which started her malady. I believe that a similar subliminal history
of their disease might be educed with advantage from some hypnotised
patients of other types.1
There is a further degree, yet more important, to which this organic
tetrocognition may, I believe, be carried. Readers of Professor Richet's
article in Proceedings, 'Vol. V., p. 18 foil., will remember that a long
1 A curious case of subliminal medical guidance will be found in Proceedings,
Vol VI., p. 206.
358 F. W. H. Myera.
inquiry,—more careful, probably, than any inquiry on this subject had
ever previously been,—convinced that physiologist of the occasional
reality of a claim which no doubt has -been often fraudulently made ;—
the claim, namely, of a clairvoyant insight into the organic condition
of an absent person. Here, of course, we come to a definitely super
normal power ; and it is a power which claims to involve both
backward and forward knowledge such as actual medical examination
of the patient could not attain. On this point I add one further case
of Professor Richet's.
M C1- 67°- Paris, le 8 Mars, 1889.
J'ai un très beau cas de lucidité, que je vais vous raconter avec détail.
Vous ne savez peut-être pas que mon beau-père, Mr. F. A., a été malade
assez gravement à partir du mois d'aoûf, 1887. (C'est lui dont j'ai eu
l'occasion de parler dans les Proceedings S.P.R., 1888, p. 126, Exp. XL.)
Il a été de plus en plus malade jusqu'au mois de janvier, 1888. A ce
moment (janvier et février, 1888) j'interroge à plusieurs reprises Alice
[a person whom Mr. Richet hypnotised] sur la santé de Mr. F. A. J'avoue
que je croyais Mr. F. A. absolument perdu, et un jour entre autres en
février, 1888, j'ai interrogé Alice; elle m'a dit, "Ne vous inquiétez pas."
Pour ma part je croyais que Mr. A. ne vivrait plus que huit jours.
De fait, contrairement à ce que je pensais et ce que pensaient tous les
médecins, il a à peu près guéri. [Certain symptoms, however, describe*!
by Mr. Richet, remained, which necessitated the constant attention of a
surgical nurse.] Quoiqu'il soit âgé (76 ans), qu'il s'amaigrisse beaucoup, et
que ses forces ne s'améliorent pas, à partir du mois de février, 1888 (vers le
9 février environ) il a été sans empirer. . . .
A diverses reprises (peut-être trois ou quatre fois) j'ai demandé à Alice
de me parler de lui. Elle m'a dit, "Ne vous inquiétez pas ; je vous en
parlerai. "
Il y a deux jours, le Jeudi, 7 mars, à une heure de l'après-midi, dès que
j'ai endormi Alice, elle me dit (ce sont ses paroles textuelles que je copie
d'après la sténographie que j'ai prise) : "J'avais hâte de vous voir ; je voulais
vous voir hier pour vous parler de M. A. Ou il est plus souffrant ou il va
avoir une crise ; de la fièvre, de l'altération, de la fatigue. Quel mauvais
moment ! Le mal s'aggrave ; il est très abattu. Il ne faut rien attendre
pour cette crise-là. " (Cela signifie que la crise ne se terminera pas parla
mort.) " Il ne pourra pas bouger ni faire un mouvement. La douleur est
surtout dans les reins, à gauche, et très forte. Ce ne sera pas la dernière
crise. Il la supportera encore. Elle aura lieu avant peu, dans deux ou trois
jours. Elle sera plus forte que toutes celles qu'il a eu depuis un an. Le
moment approche. Il souffrira moins à la fin. Il mourra au moment où
vous ne vous y attendrez pas ; ce n'est pas dans une crise qu'il mourra. Il
ne pourra pas prendre d'aliments, on lui mouille les lèvres. ... Il
avait peur do mourir ; maintenant c'est bien changé, et il est plus in
différent." 1
1 Ces détails sur les aliments, la sécheresse des lèvres, et l'indifférence progressi f
à la mort, sont absolument vrais.
The Subliminal Self.
Voila ce que m'a dit Alice a une heure le Jeudi. Ce meme Jeudi soir, en
rentrant chez raoi, je trouve ma femme fort inquiete, et elle me raconto que
dans la nuit du mercredi au jeudi, vers une heure du matin [here Mr.
Richet relates in detail how for the first time for 13 months the attendant
had been unable to assist Mr. A., who had been in great agony for three
hours, until at length a surgeon was sent for. with whose aid the sufferings
of the patient were instantly relieved.] II est eVident, et mOme absolument
sur, qu' Alice n'a pu savoir cela ; moi-meme je l'ignorais absolument a uno
heure.
II y a done la un fait de lucidité tres remarquable, que je vous signalo
d une maniere tout-a-fait speciale. Remarquez combien cela comcide avec
1) l'observation relative a la maladie de mon beau-pere que je vous ai
ncontee ; (2) l'Observation XIV., p. 164, que j'ai publiee dans les Proceed
ing S.P.R., 1888.
II faut noter comme essentiel que depuis un an et un mois jamais Mr. A.
n'a eu une crise aussi forte et avec autant d'angoisse que dans la nuit de
mercredi a jeudi. (gigned) Ch Richet
Let us now turn from these diffused organic sensations and
memories to those more definite sensations and memories which are
received by the end-organs and stamped upon the brain. For simpli
city's sake I shall generally take the sense of sight as representative of
all the senses.
And here at once I may distinguish three different stages of visual
memory, often apprehended with some confusion.1 First comes that
peripheral or entoptic memory which consists in the short-lived per
sistence of a retinal impression as a true after image, which passes
through certain physiological stages and then disappears, so far as we
know, altogether. This may be compared with the actual primary
pain itself, which presently dies away. Next to this comes another
form of " brute " or unintelligent memory, which is often confounded
*ith the first, but which is in fact quite distinct from the ordinary
retinal after-image, and far more permanent. This is, if I may
so term it, a cerebral after-image ; a persisting possibility of the
resurgence of a complex scene just as it presented itself in the visual
field, and perhaps with details now discernible which were not
fittingly noted at the time. This kind of photographic or phono
graphic after-image need not involve any intellectual selective action.
It forms a treasure-house from which illusions hypnagogiquet, crystal-
visions, and other sensory automatisms seem often to be drawn2 ; nor
do we know any necessary limit to this revival. The following cases
trom Professor Hyslop may serve as examples of these cerebral
after-images.
lOn this subject see Proceedings, Vol. X., pp. 134-148 (viz., the chapter on the
Pkntiotogy of Hallucination!.)
See Proceeding!, Vol. VIII., pp. 449-155.
360 F. W. H. Myers.
P. 171. Columbia College, New York,
May 19th, 1893.
My Dear Hodgson,—I enclose an interesting experience of one of my
students, who asks that his name shall not be used. I should say regarding
it that he told me the incident a day or two after it occurred, and remarked,
what he has not included in his present account ; namely, that the colours
stood out clear in the after-images, if the impressions or apparitions may \k
called that. The case thus bears a close relation to positive after images,
though experienced at an unusual interval after the original impression.
J. H. Htslof.
May 18th, 1893.
Dr. Hyslop,—Dear Sir,—You asked me to write out my " experience "
on St. Patrick's day some time ago, and it was my forgetfulness and pro
crastination which prevented me from doing so. Here it is. On last St.
Patrick's day, March 17th, 1893, I left college early in the afternoon,
cutting my laboratory work in chemistry. I went through to Fifth Avenue,
as I had an errand to do over on Sixth. When I struck Fifth I saw part of
the parade of the loyal sons of St. Patrick, with their green sashes, banners
with harps surmounted by fools' caps, and all the other paraphernalia. I
think I then walked up a couple of blocks and walked through to Sixth to
do my errand. I am certain of doing the errand, but do not quite recollect
what streets I went through. When I had finished my errand, I walked
directly to my house, 17, East 55th Street, and when I crossed the Avenue,
Fifth, (on my way home), the parade had passed, so between the time when
I last saw them and the time when I entered my house, I should say that a
full quarter of an hour elapsed. Meanwhile, the parade had quite
passed out of my consciousness. But as I was going up my front stairs,
which are quite dark, I got a distinct picture of the paraders, green sashes,
banners and all,—seemingly projected on the dark wall paper with which
the hall is covered. The picture was so vivid for an instant that it seemed
as if I could see the features of the paraders' faces.
This is as detailed an account as I can give of the circumstance, and there
is one particular in which my memory plays me false in a singular way. I
could not state which way the paraders were going, although I think it was
uptown.
Columbia College, New York, May 19th, 1893.
My Dear Hodgson,—I may add to this a frequent experience
of my own when a boy. I was in the habit of attending the country
fairs with my parents. There were exhibitions of stock, farm pro
duce and machinery, etc. I suppose I was about 10 or 12 years of
age. The music given on such occasions was by an ordinary brass or
cornet band, which always had a strong attraction for mo, and I
listened to it in preference to doing anything else, though I have no doubt
now that it was of a bad quality and poor in selection. But nevertheless it
had a fascination for me. I always observed that for hours after I could
hear the bands playing their music. My home was seven miles distant, and
on the way thither in returning, and after my return, I could hear the
sounds of the music. It was not an ordinary case of imagination and
The Subliminal Self. 361
memory, but more like real sound, though I distinctly remember Wing
under no illusion as to its purely subjective nature. I recognised that it
was not a real sound, and so the experience had not that feature of a
hallucination which causes it to be mistaken for a reality. I knew that it
was not real, and that it was merely internal. It was not so distinct as an
objectire sound, but was like the continuance of a sensation after the
stimulus is gone, less vivid than before. But it was a sound of a kind that
I could not get rid of, and was no doubt an extraordinary case of after-image
inhearin«- J. H. Hyslof.
But meantime a process has begun as to which physiology can tell
us nothing, and of which psychology describes, under the name of
Attention, a small part alone. A selection is made among the countless
details with which the brain has been stored ; a synthetized and
abbreviated memory reduces the unmanageable complexity to orderly
usefulness. Unconsciously we chew the cud of recollection ; and when
any picture is again summoned up to the surface it is found to have
assumed a more or less symbolic form, appropriate to the furniture of
each man's mind. It is this symbolized or organised memory on which
we practically live ; and every day a fresh portion of these digested
memories becomes, so to say, absorbed into our system ; influencing our
aaracter, or habit of reaction to psychical stimuli, but no longer dis
tinguishable from our central consciousness any more than food when
digested into chyle is any longer distinguishable from the eater. At
vhich stage3 in this mnemonic process, then, do we find evidence of
supernormal action, as of hypermnesia, or of telepathic perception of
tie content of other minds 1
With the mere retinal memory, in the first place, we are here little
concerned. Some ingenious experiments on its prolongation have been
quoted elsewhere.1 But, however prolonged, it will still be character
istic; a mere retinal after-image is not likely to be mistaken for a super
normal image.
With cerebral after-images the case is quite different. It is plain
that if these persist for some days or months in latency and then
'suddenly reappear, say in a crystal-vision, the " scryer " may well have
forgotten that he ever witnessed the scene, and may take the mere
brute memory for a revelation of facts unknown.
It must be remembered, moreover, that these resurgent pictures are
not always exact reproductions of the primary impression. On the
contrary, they have often undergone some subliminal modification,—
iidtlligent but not reasonable,—a dream-like change, for which no mind
except our own need be held responsible. Just as, for instance, the
faces which some people see in the dark generally present some slightly
i Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 450.
362 F. W. H. Myers.
novel combination of features in themselves familiar, so also do crystal-
visions often contain some merely fantastic element. The seer must
therefore be on his guard against supposing that if, for instance, he sees
a familiar scene with new details, those details must needs represent
any fact whatever.
These, then, are forms of retrocognition which it is needful here to
distinguish and specify, but which may henceforth be left aside from
our inquiry. What we wish to study is the retrocognition which depends
on the exercise of supernormal powers,—on telepathy or on telsesthesia ;
—on the perception by us of knowledge contained in other minds,
embodied or disembodied, and possibly on the absorption by us of
knowledge afloat, so to say, in the Universe ;—which may be grasped by
our spirit's outreaching, or which may fall on us like dew.
I will begin with a group of cases which seem to illustrate both
telresthetic and telepathic faculty, and which may serve as a watershed
from which we may descend on either side in turn. They are cases,
moreover, which approach somewhat closely from the intellectual side
those cases of organic retrocognition which we have already discussed.
For the idea that it may be possible to review or retrocognise a man's
grosser corporeal conditions by merely contemplating the man or some
object pertaining to him naturally suggests the question whether, if
the past state of his lungs or stomach be thus discernible, the past
state of his consciousness may not be so too. Thoughts and emotions
have left traces on his nervous system ; nay, on his spirit ; in some
sense they still exist; are these decipherable by any seer's inward
eye t This question opens the way to a crowd of answers which
fall short of actual evidence. Sudden unreasoning sympathies
and antipathies may be striking enough to those who feel them :
but it is impossible with such vague phenomena to be sure of
marking the misses as well as the hits.
Here is a case which suggests some slight retrocognitive power
under hypnotism.
P. 243.
From Dr. Van Eeden, of Amsterdam, Corresponding Member of the
S.P.R.
The following, says Dr. Van Eeden, is a very strange case of telepathic
influence, to the exact truth of which I can however testify :—
On January 11th, 1892, I treated Miss M. for hysteric aphonia.
I sent her to sleep in my own study. As she showed signs of simulation,
and seemed to need an energetic treatment, I threatened to throw a glass of
cold water in her face, if she did not speak immediately in a clear voice.
I was obliged to fultil the threat with the expected result. She awoke ami
spoke in a clear loud voice. This was the first time in five years' practice
that I took this measure, and I told nobody of it.
The Subliminal Self. 36:i
On January 13th, I treated Miss F. in the same chair in my study.
I had treated this lady several times before in the same place, and she always
went into a quiet sleep. But this time she told me after the treatment that
her sleep had been very much disturbed. For she had heard me saying in a
threatening voice : "I shall awake you by throwing a glass of cold water in
jour face. " And as she is very afraid of cold water, she was in constant fear
and uneasiness. Now I had said nothing of the sort, had not left her, and
had not spoken to anybody of the occurrence with Miss M. two days before.
Miss F. often hears voices in her sleep, but seldom so clearly as this time.
F. v. E.
The above statement is the literal translation, (made in 1892 for the
S.P.R.) of the note I took down immediately after the occurrence of the
incident related.
I add the version of Miss F. , written now (1895) while she is staying in
my house, I having asked for her corroboration. I seem to have been
mistaken in the notion that she had heard me threatening her. This mistake
is the result of my impression of her fright, which struck me principally.
According to her version, I was [in her hallucination] speaking to somebody
else, and on this point she is positive. As for me, I am absolutely sure I did
not say anything of the kind, during her sleep, nor did I mention the fact
to anyone.
August 13th, 1895. F. v. E.
The corroboration of Miss F. runs as follows :—
Often, during my sleep, I hear at a distance different voices speaking, —
though not to myself.
On the above-mentioned date I heard distinctly the voice of Dr. van
Eeden saying: "And so I threw a cup of water into her face." As I
hare a particular dislike to being frightened, I thought at that moment how
very angry I should be if he should behave so badly towards me !
Bussum, August 13th, 1895. A. F.
[Miss F. gave me orally (at Utrecht, September 19, 1895) an interesting
account of her somewhat unusual experience under hypnotism. There
is no trance, and no break in memory, but a unique rush of illusions
hiipmgogiques, among which the impression above related was specially
distinct.—F.W.H.M.]
There are, however, a few cases of a much stronger kind,
where a definite fact in a man's life has manifested itself phantasmally
to a sensitive's gaze. Thus Miss X. recounts (Proceedings, Vol.
XI., p. 125) the vision of a striking picture of long-past disgrace,
in the close vicinity of an acquaintance whom she had no reason to
connect with any such scene. Similarly Dr. D. J. Parsons, of Sweet
,Springs, Missouri, published in the Medical Brief for May, 1891, a long
account of retrocognitive perceptions of a similar kind. As has been
the case with many of our informants, it was not until lately that
Dr. Parsons recognised that such experiences could have a scientific
364 F. W. H. Myers.
interest; and most of his cases are remote and now incapable of
corroboration. I select for quotation a case which is well confirmed,
and where the oddness of the emergent symbol seems to preclude
mere chance coincidence.
P. 172.
D. J. Parsons, M.D., Sweet Springs, Mo., writes as follows in The
Medical Brief, April, 1891 :—
Twenty years after my first experience I learned that I could see things
mentally, I will call it, just as others had seen them many years before and
hundreds of miles distant. To illustrate : While in company with Dr.
Trotter, of Lexington, Mo. , I could see before and near to him a delicate
hand on which was a dark red kid glove. The hand was all the time in
motion. I called his attention to it and he was much surprised. I told him
the hand had a history, and if he had no objections I would be pleased to
know ic. He said, "I was travelling in Canada, on the cars, and one day
we ran up to a train that had been wrecked a little while before. I went to
the wreck and about the first thing I saw was a young lady lying upon the
ground dead ; one hand was naked and the other was covered with a dark red
kid glove." Instantly upon his uttering the words, the dark red kid glove
and the hand vanished.
Dr. D. J. Parsons writes to Dr. Hodgson from Sweet Springs, Mo. ,
June 2oth, 1891.
Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—In regard to Dr. Trotter's case I would
state, in addition to what I have written, that the Doctor came into the drug
store where he found me alone on one Sunday morning, and we talked for
about an hour, the gloved hand all the time present and in motion. The
dinner bell was rung, he going to dinner and I going home. I returned
about half-past one and immediately he called in. Saw the hand all the time
soon as he entered, as before. I then' called his attention to it as stated.
My experience has taught me to believe that the hand would have returned
with the Doctor perhaps hundreds of times, or until he explained to me the
cause of its presence. Soon as he uttered the words dark glove, it vanished ;
would never appear again under any circumstances.
Dr. Trotter writes from Lexington, Mo. :— July 12th 1891
R. Hodgson, Esq.,—Dear Sir,—The circumstance to which you refer,
connected with Dr. D. J. Parsons, of Sweet Springs, Mo., is indeed very
remarkable—the gloved hand. The following is about the way it occurred.
About the year 1852, I was travelling on the (then) Great Western R.R.,
Canada, when one of the worst R.R. accidents occurred in the annals of R.
Roading, known as the Baptist's Creek accident. Over 70 were killed
outright, and about 100 wounded. I saw them all and there were many
horrible and striking sights, all of which passed out of my mind, excepting
one : it was the corpse of what had been a very handsome young lady, who
had had a beautiful hand ; her right hand was lying across her chest with a
fine neat glove, her left was bare. The gloved hand made a strong im
pression on me which has remained to this day, about 40 years. I have no
The Subliminal Self. 365
recollection of ever mentioning it to any one till some 10 or 12 years ago to Dr.
Parsons. We had been intimate friends for years, and had talked a great
deal on various subjects, Spiritualism among the rest. One day he said to
me, "Doctor, there is something connected with a glove which has made a
strong impression upon your mind." These are about his exact words. It
astounded me, and I hadn't to think a second to tell him thero was, and I
told him the circumstances, and that the sight of the gloved hand clung to
me, and I will say does so yet. It has been a great wonder to me how Dr.
Parsons referred to it. He certainly never got the idea from any physical
source.—Very respectfully, R Trottbr
P.S.—You are at liberty to use this as you think proper.—It.T.
These two cases, of the boy " running the gauntlet," and of the
red glove, illustrate better than any others in my possession the
suggested adherence of phantasmal scenes to a living person,—or, say
their inherence in that person,—with no suggestion of spirit agency.1
It is plain, on the other hand, that where instead of a glove, or a
picture of A himself in the past, it is the phantom of a deceased
person which is thus seen in the neighbourhood of a living one, we can
no longer feel confident that it is the living man's memory only
which is at work. But there is no need, I say, to suppose that the
red glove implied the presence of the spirit of its quondam owner.
We may regard it as a psychical image accompanying the man in
whose memory it was lodged, although as imperceptible to ordinary
observers as the special scent by which a bloodhound would have
tracked his footsteps along a crowded street. Nor need we, on such
an analogy, suppose that such trace can be left only by the presence
of the living man himself. His cap or glove will give trace enough
for the hound to follow his movements,—to reconstruct his life from
the hound's point of view; and similarly there may be signs in the
man's body or environment which may afford a transcendental trace,
from which his history may be reconstructed by a gaze which is not of
the eye alone.2
This influence of material objects in facilitating retrocognitive
telssthesia has been already more than once discussed in connection
1 For a discussion by Miss X. of alternative explanations of such pictures, see
Pnutdingi, Vol. XI., p. 114 foil. And compare a case quoted by Mr. Podmore,
Prvxtding!, VoL VI., p. 286.
2 It is worth noting that this is precisely what ^Eschylus suggests when he makes
the phantom of Clytemnestra appeal to the sleeping Eumenides to recognise, by the
internal visions of their profound sleep, the long-past source of the wounds which she
shows in her breast. (Eum. 98).
'Opart TrXijyat rdaSe Kap8las u8fv
EvSov&a yap (pprtv op.p.atjiv \ap.irpvviTar
'Ev i)pipa hi fioip' airpoaiumos jipcyraiv.
2 K
366 F. W. H. Myers.
with Mrs. Piper's trances, and will call for further discussion when those
trance-phenomena shall be again dealt with. For the present I will
merely refer to two cases, both of them from informants with whose
names the readers of these Proceedings are already familiar. The
first, the tracing of the history of a ring, will be found in a paper
signed J. M. Soames, in the Contemporary Review (1891), whose
author—his real name is Major Schreiber—is known to me. The
case is remote and now hardly capable of corroboration, but it seems
to have been carefully observed and described. (See Proceedings,
Vol. VIII., p. 526.)
The next case is from Mr. Dobbie, a correspondent known to
many of us, and of whose conscientious care we feel assured. It is
quoted by Mrs. Sidgwick in Proceedings, Vol. VII., p. 65.
In these and similar cases the inanimate object is regarded as
leading to a knowledge of part of the history of persons connected
with it. But it is sometimes asserted that the inanimate object
reveals its own history,—suggesting scenes in which, perhaps, no
human being has token part. This further claim, I think, is simply a
matter of evidence, and it is as yet quite insufficiently supported.
One might regard it as consistent with a view of the universe as a
completely conservative system, that record should somehow persist,
even of scenes which have never been reflected in human minds.
Human minds probably constitute but an infinitesimal fraction of the
mind in the Universe. But as to whether a record formed apart
from human minds can be readied by human minds or no ;—that, I
repeat, may be discussed with more profit when better evidence than
now exists for so extreme an assumption shall have been produced.1
But now, continuing our survey of modes of retrocognition which
do not directly depend upon telepathy, we come to two groups of
phenomena which, as far back as the publication of PJiantusms of the
Living, seemed hardly to fall under the heading of Transmission from
Mind to Mind, which that book was primarily intended to prove.
Edmund Gurney has there said much as to " telepathic clairvoyance,"
and something also (Vol. II., p. 365, sqq.) as to "a curious little
group of cases in which it is difficult or impossible to assign the
impression to the ' agency ' of any particular person, and which recall
the Greek notion of *w»7—the rumour which spreads from some
unknown source, and far outstrips all known means of transport."
In crude language, there are cases where a living man's spirit seems to
wander about and pick up knowledge for itself, and cases where it
seems to sit at home while knowledge flows in upon it from no trace-
1 The works on this subject by Buchanan and Denton lack precision and
corroboration from the evidential point of view.
The Subliminal Self. 367
able source. The dividing lines of hypothetical classes of this sort are
of course obscure ; but I may say that the cases given in Mrs.
Sidgwick's paper on Clairvoyance (Proceedings, Vol. VII., p. 30),
belong mainly to the former of these two groups,—sometimes called
Travelling Clairvoyance ;—of which, again, we shall in this paper hear
more when we come to discuss precognition. For the moment I turn
to the second class ; —the passive reception of impressions which no
assignable mind, incarnate or discarnate, can plausibly be supposed to
have transmitted. Convenience demands a name for this class ; and
new words of fresh derivation and definite meaning do assuredly save
more trouble in the end than they give at the beginning. The early
Christians used the terra Koo-il.onadi)s for a man readily affected by
impressions from the surrounding world. I therefore propose to term
these experiences cosmopathic ;—impressions which come to men from
the transcendental environment ; borne like seed on the wind, rather
than wittingly directed towards him by the voluntary or involuntary
sympathy of any assignable intelligence. In this class I should place
the several instances quoted by Mr. Gurney (loc. cit.) where a sudden
and true impression of the death of some distinguished personage
comes to a percipient with no special interest in the event.1 Various
crystal visions already published seem to fall under this category, and
several narratives quoted in this paper may be so interpreted. But
often a link of some kind can be found ; and we may well suppose
that such links may be differently perceived, and may link human
spirits in unguessed ways, in the subliminal world.
L 976. Ai1 Fl
Received through the American Branch.
The following case was received by Professor James from Mr R. T. Van
Deusen, of 600, Addison Avenue, Albany.
Mr. Van Deusen writes :— T oril, iQOo
January 30th, 1893.
I am a collector, and of late a dealer, in old china. My home and
business are in Albany, N.Y., where I issue a small sheet, called the China
1 One of the most curious of these cases to my thinking is that given in the note
toPhantasms of the Living, Vol. II., p. 367, where Mr. C. Mayne Young, a man of
some note in his day, was troubled for some hours of the night with the inward
insistence—almost amounting to an auditory hallucination—of four apparently mean
ingless syUables, " Dowd," ' ' Swell," " Pull," " Court," and only afterwards discovered
that Mr. Dowdeswell, of Pull Court, a stranger to him, was at that time on his death-
fed, I happen to know the ladies—daughters of Mr. Horace Smith, the once well-
known author of "Rejected Addresses,"—to whom Mr. Young communicated this
dream before the coincidence was known. They fully remember the circumstances,
and their evidence is made the more valuable by the fact that not only did they then
regard Mr. Young's narrative of his experience as pointless ;—but even now that the
coincidence is known—and by them inexplicable—they take no interest in the matter.
See, also, a ease in the S.P.R. Journal for October, 1892 ;—" Earl Howe of Gopsal."
2 ■ 2
368 F. W. H. Myers.
Collector. Some 14 months since, I found an article in Scribncr's Magazine
bearing on the subject, and written by Mrs. A., of Brooklyn, an entire
stranger to me. I wrote Mrs. A. at the time, and may have received three
to five letters from her, all of which are brief and pertaining strictly to our
common interest. Once, when in New York city, I called upon Mrs. A. at
her Brooklyn home, meeting only her, and of course learning nothing of her
family. At this call Mrs. A. expressed a desire to possess a certain specimen,
which I found later on ; and, having a trip to town in view, decided to again
call and tell her of it. Arrived at the house, I was told by a maid that Mrs.
A. 's son was very ill, and that she saw no one. In response to an inquiry, I
was told that they then regarded him as improving. I thus left the house
with the impression that he was on the road to recovery. During the next
two or three weeks I frequently considered the advisability of writing, but
hesitated for some time, fearing to intrude so trifling a matter at a time of
anxiety and care. I, however, received a complimentary copy of her book
China Collecting in America, at this time, and acknowledged the same in a
note, expressing hope of recovery, &c. Very shortly after this, I awoke one
morning at an earlier hour than usual (why I knew not), and fell into a doze,
from which I was wakened at about seven by the announcement, in a low
voice, close to my right ear, " Willie A. died this morning at tinl o'clock."
I never for a moment doubted that my wife, who sleeps in an adjoining
room, had been in and told me. It is her custom to wake me very gently,
and I believed I heard her voice. I "gathered" myself rather slowly,
wondering how Mrs. Van Dousen could have received the information. The
acquaintance between Mrs. A. and myself was of the sort described, and
there was no reason why any notification of this death should be sent us. I
went out into the hall, met my wife, and asked the question, only to receive
from her the startled reply, "Who is dead?" when mutual explanations and
astonishment ensued. I was so impressed with the precise and emphatic
character of the announcement that I mentioned it to two or three friends,
and sought to find out if it was true. I was only able to learn that the lad
died that night. On my next meeting with Mrs. A. this fall, I asked if the
name of her son was Willie, and on hearing that it was not, I then explained
my reason for asking, when Mrs. A. told me that her son did die at two
o'clock that morning. Mrs. A. then volunteered the information that she had
heard a similar case in connection with the death of her son.
I fancy that I was too heavy with sleep to catch the first word of the
sentence—note its order. This is the only instance of the sort that ever
happened to me.
It happened that friends came to us the day that I received the notifica
tion of Mrs. A.'s son's death, and I mentioned the fact to them. I was
sick most of that day—a peculiar nervous dyspepsia and accompanying
disturbance. I knew this was not due to the knowledge of this boy's death.
There was no reason why I should feel his death. I think I was not much
impressed with the occurrence until it became the subject of talk.
Do you suppose that the disturbance of my nervous centres was in any
way connected with the incident, and if so, how? I am 33 years old, and am
fairly strong.
Robert Thompson Van Dei-sen.
The Subliminal Self. 309
In a later communication, Mr. Van Deusen said that he was unable to
give the exact date of his experience, having made no note of it. After
ascertaining that it was on the same morning that the boy died, he ceased to
feel any active interest in it.
In reply to Dr. Hodgson's request for corroboration, Mrs. Van Deusen
wrote :—
The Addison, Middlebury, Vt., March 3Ut. 1893.
Dear Sir, —Your letter to Mr. Van Deusen requesting a statement from
me was duly received.
I have a distinct recollection of my husband's asking me that morning
whether I had told him of the death of Mrs. A.'s son, and his surprise at
my reply that I had not been in the room, and knew nothing of it. Indeed,
I did not even know she had a son, so slight was the acquaintance. I only
know of Mrs. A. as one of Mr. Van Deusen's customers. My husband
seemed much impressed with the occurrence, and we talked more or less of
it at the time. It gradually passed out of our minds until two or three
months later, when during a call on Mrs. A. he mentioned the circumstances
and learned the correctness of the intelligence. So much time has since
passed, that it is impossible to recall names of those to whom it was told.
Mrs. William O. Stillman remembers the occurrence, and I presume our
maid, who was much in the dining-room in attendance on the table, might
remember it, but she has left me, and I have not her address.
Mr. Van Deusen wrote to Mrs. A. for permission to give her address, as
you requested, but has received no reply. Alys B Deusen
Dr. Hodgson wrote to Mrs. Stillman, asking for her recollections of the
occurrence, and received the following reply :—
287, State Street, Albany, February 27th, 1893.
Dear Mr. Hoihison,—This morning I received your note about Mr. Van
Deusen's experience, and regret I made no note at the time. He told me
the day after he received the impression that a voice said to him the night
before : "Little Willie A. died at o'clock." He told me the hour, but
I have forgotten it. Shortly afterwards he said to me that he heard from
Mrs. A that the hour at which her little boy died was the hour he had
heard, and I was quite struck by the coincidence. —Very truly yours,
Frances Stiixman.
It must be noted here, I repeat, that there had in fact been some
slight link between the dying boy's mother and the percipient ; and
that, for aught we know, this connexion may have been more operative
below than above the conscious threshold.
And similarly in cases where a man has a vision of some incident
at a distance ;—say of some accident in which he is not directly
concerned ;—one can still say that the event was one which it would
have interested him to see, which might have attracted his telcesthetic
attention, so to term it, in sleep.
Both this and the following case resemble the dream (Phantasms
of the Living, Vol. II., p. 368) in which a gentleman at Leicester
370 F. W. H. Myers.
discerned an accident then occurring in the Thames Tunnel. Mr.
Wack's narrative recalls also Mrs. Storie's experience, (Phantasnu
of the Living, Vol. I., p. 370), except that the person whose fate was
represented in the dream was in this case entirely unknown to the
dreamer. Mr. W. H. Wack is an attorney.
P. 224. Court House, St. Paul, Minn.
February 10th, 1892.
I believe I have had a remarkable experience. About midnight on the
29th day of December, headsore and fatigued, I left my study where I had
been poring over uninspiring law text, and, climbing to my chamber door,
fell into bed for the night.
Nothing unusual had transpired in my affairs that day, and yet, when I
gave myself to rest, my brain buzzed on with a myriad fancies. I lay an
hour, awake, and blinking like an over-fed owl. The weird intonation of an
old kitchen clock fell upon my ears but faintly, as it donged the hour of two.
The sound of the clock chime had hardly died when I became conscious of
my position in a passenger coach on the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Omaha
railroad. I was journeying to Duluth, Minnesota, from St. Paul, in which
latter place I had gone to sleep. I was aware that I had been on the train
about four hours and that I was somewhere near the town of Shell Lake,
Wis., distant from St. Paul about eighty miles. I had often been over the
road, and as I peered through the coach window, I recognised, in the moonlit
scene, features of country and habitation I had seen before. We were
plunging on, almost heedlessly as it seemed, when I fancied I heard and
was startled from my reverie by a piercing shriek, which was protracted
into a piteous moaning and gasping, as if some human creature were suffering
some hideous torture.
Then I felt the train grind heavily to an awkward stop. There was a
sudden commotion fore and aft. Train men with lanterns hurried through
my car and joined employes near the engine. I could see the lights flash
hero and there, beside and beneath the cars ; brakemen moved along the
wheels in groups, the pipe voice of the conductor and tho awe-stricken cry
of the black porter infused a livening sense to a scene which I did not
readily understand. Instinctively I concluded that an accident had happened,
or perhaps that a break to the train had occasioned this sudden uprising of
train men. A minute later I was out upon the road bed. The brusque and
busy search and the disturbed manner of the attendants did not invite
elaborate inquiry from a curious passenger, so I was content to be told, in
very ugly snappish English, that if I had eyes I might see for myself that
" some one got killed, I reckon," Everybody moved and acted in a spirit of
stealth, and each, it appeared, expected a horrible " find." The trucks were
being examined from the roar of the train forward. Blood splotches were
discovered on nearly all the bearings under the entire train. When the gang
reached one of the forward cars, all lights were cast upon a truck which was
literally scrambled with what appeared to be brains—human brains,
evidently, for among the clots were small tufts of human hair. This truck,
particularly, must have ground over the bulk of a human body. Every
The Subliminal Self. 371
fixture between the wheels was smeared with the crimson ooze of some
crushed victim. But where was the body, or at least its members ? The
trucks were covered only with a pulp of mangled remnants. The search for
what appeared of the killed was extended 500 yards back of the train and all
about the right-of-way with no more satisfactory result than to occasionally
find a blood-stained tie.
All hands boarded the train ; many declaring that it was an unusual
mishap on a railroad which left such uncertain trace of its victim. Again
I felt the train thundering on through the burnt pino wastes of northern
Minnesota. As I reclined there in my berth, I reflected upon the experience
of the night, and often befuddled my sleepy head in an effort to understand
how a train, pushing along at the rate of thirty miles an hour, could so
grind and triturate a vital bulk, staiuing only trucks behind the engine,
unless the killed at the fatal time were upon the truck or huddled closely by
it. I concluded, therefore, that the being destroyed under the train had
been concealed near the bespattered fixtures of the car. I had read of
death to tramps stealing rides by hiding themselves under or between cars,
and finally I dismissed meditation—assured that another unfortunate
itinerant had been crushed out of existence. Horrible ! I shuddered and
awoke—relieved to comprehend it all a dream.
Now the fact that the foregoing is an accurate statement of a dream
experienced by me is not a matter for marvel. Taken alone, there is nothing
remarkable in the time at which this vision blackened my sleep. The spell
was upon me between two and three o'clock in the morning—of that I am
certain. I am positive of the time, because, when I awoke, I heard the
clock distinctly, as it struck three.
On the morrow, I,—who usually forget an ordinary dream long before
breakfast—recounted to the family the details of the night's distraction.
From my hearers there followed only the ordinary comments of how ghastly
and how shocking the story was as told and how strange the nature of the
accident—that no parts of the body had been found. The latter circumstance
was, to me also, quite an unusual feature of railroad casualty.
The evening following the night of tho dream (December 30th), at 5
o'clock, I returned to my home, stepped into my study, and, as I am in the
habit of doing, I glanced at a page of the St. Paid Dixpatch, a daily evening
newspaper. It had been casually folded by a previous reader, so that in
picking it up flatly, the article which firsc fixed my attention read :
" Fite of a Tramf. Horrible Death Experienced by: an Unknown
Man on the Omaha Road.
"Duluth, December 30.—Every truck on the incoming Omaha train from
St. Paul this morning was splashed with blood. Trainmen did not know
there had been an accident till they arrived here, but think some unfortunate
man must have been stealing a ride between St. Paul and this city. Train
men on a later train state that a man's leg was found by them at Spooner,
and that for two miles this side the tracks were scattered with pieces of flesh
and bone. There is no possible means of identification."
Here was an evident verification of all that transpired in my mind between
two and three o'clock on the previous night. I reflected, and the more I
372 F. W. H. Myers.
pondered the faster I became convinced that I had been in some mysterious
form, spirit or element, witness of the tragedy reported in the columns of
the press— that my vision was perfect as to general details, and the
impression complete and exact to time, place, and circumstance. The next
morning I scanned the pages of the Pioneer Press of December 31at, and
read the following paragraph :—
" Unknown man killed. Shell Lake, Wis. Special telegram,
December 30th.—Fragments of the body of an unknown man were picked
up on the railroad track to-day. Portions of the same body were also found
on over 100 miles of the railroad. He is supposed to have been killed by
the night train, but just where is not known."
With this came the conviction to me that, living and asleep, 100 miles
from the place of the killing, I had been subjected to the phantom-sight of
an actual occurrence on the Omaha railroad, as vivid and in truth as I have
stated it above.
I have not written this account because Mark Twain and other authors
have published in current magazines their experiences in what is termed
Mental Telepathy or Mental Telegraphy. On the contrary, having read
a number of those articles, I have hesitated to utter, as authentic, what I
now believe to be a material and striking evidence of the extent, the caprice,
and the possibilities of this occult phenomenon. Hirry W Wack
In reply to Dr. Hodgson's enquiries, Mr. Wack wrote :—
St. Paul, February 20th, 1892.
My Dear Sir,—Replying to your valued favour of the 15th inst., I will
say that you are right in understanding that my account of the dream sub
mitted to your Society is a true narrative.
I reaffirm every word of it, and give you my solemn assurance that, as I
have stated, I informed my family and friends of the dream and its details,
before I had the first suspicion that the public press ever had contained or
ever would contain a report of such an actual occurrence.
If desirable I will make affidavit as to the truth of the substance of the
narrative in your hands.
I enclose a few corroborative letters, the signatures to which I procured
yesterday, February 19th. If these serve you, well and good.
Harry W. Wacr.
The following were the corroborative letters enclosed :—
(1) St. Paul, February 20<ft, 1892.
Gentlemen,—Referring to an account of a dream submitted to you by
Mr. Harry Wack of this city which I have read, I beg leave to add the follow
ing facts corroborative of the narrative.
After careful consideration of the article, I find that the story of the
dream on December 29th-30th is in substance identical with that which
was related by Mr. Wack at breakfast on the morning of December 30th,
1891. On that occasion Mr. Wack stated that he had been agitated the pre
vious night by a dream of unusual features, and then, at the request of those
present, he recited what now appears in his article, which I have just perused
for the first time. On the evening of December 30th, 1891, when Mr. Wack
The Subliminal Self. 373
discovered the newspaper item, he again mentioned the dream and called my
attention to the newspaper item, and several of the family discussed the
matter. On the morning of December 31st, another newspaper clipping
bearing on the same matter was debated by the family.
Aside from the unusual features and hideousness of the dream, there was
nothing to startle us, until the newspaper accounts developed the affair in u
mysterious sense. The first version of the dream was given in the morning
of December 30th. The first newspaper dispatch appeared and was dis
covered in the evening of the same day. This I know of my own know
ledge, being present on each occasion.
Mrs. Margaret B. Macdonald.
(2) St. Paul, Minn., February 20th, 1892.
Gentlemen,—I have read the letter of Mrs. Macdonald, with whom I
visited on December 29th, 30th, 31st, and days following, and with your per
mission I will say that I also was present at breakfast when Mr. Wack
mentioned the dream, and at dinner (6 p.m.) when Mr. Wack called our
attention to the newspaper item, which he then declared was a positive
verification of the dream he experienced the night before. I have read the
account of the dream, and I believe it to be precisely as I understood it from
Mr. Wack's account given on the morning of December 30th, 1891.
Rose B. Hamilton.
(3) St. Paul, February 20th, 1892.
Gentlemen,—Having read the foregoing letters of Mrs. Macdonald and
Miss Rose B. Hamilton, and being familiar with the facts and incidents
therein set forth, I would add my endorsement to them as being in strict
accord with the truth.
Mr. Wack stated his dream as he has written of it in the article which I
understand he has submitted to you, on the morning of December 30th, 1891.
He came upon and drew our attention to the newspaper articles in the
evening of December 30th, and on the morning of December 31st, 1891. It
fas these newspaper dispatches which made the dream interesting, and there-
after it was freely discussed. c £ McDona1I1.
Mr. H. W. Smith, an Associate Member of the American Branch, writes
to Dr. Hodgson in connection with the case :—
Office of Smith and Austrian, Commission Merchants,
290, E., 6th Street, Produce Exchange, .
St. Paul, Minn., April 14th, 1892.
My Dear Sir,—It has been impossible for me to accept Mr. Wack's
invitation to meet at his house the witnesses he cited in his communication
to you. I have already written you of my preliminary interview with Mr.
Wack, and it confirms in my own mind the high opinion which I previously
held of him through our acquaintanceship, extending over a series of years.
There is no reasonable doubt in my mind that the statement he makes is
substantially correct, at least as respects any and all allegations of fact.
Of course the application of these facts to an unknown force is a matter upon
which I cannot speak.
Hekuert W. Smith.
374 F. W. H. Myers.
The fact that Mr. Wack had often travelled over this road may
possibly have turned in this direction the telaesthetic perception of his
sleeping hours.
The following case bears an absurd resemblance to the tragedy just
recounted.
M.C1. 12.
Mr. Podmore writes :—
Mr. Watts, who told me the incident immediately before writing it down
at my request, is quite unable to find any explanation of the matter. He is
quite clear that he had no opportunity to tell anyone beforehand, that the
image of the broken statue had actually come into his mind at the moment
when he was brushing his hair, and the violent shock which he seems to
have felt when he saw his dream realised is strong evidence that he is not
mistaken on this point.
From Mr. J. Hunter Watts, of 39, Seething Lane, E.C.,
July 16th, 1889.
I will endeavour to commit to paper the little episode which I related to
you verbally. About six years ago I was with my brother George in Paris,
where he bought for some eight or ten francs a Plaster of Paris " Venus de
Milo "—a ghastly copy of the original. I protested against the purchase as
I had to share the bother of bringing the thing home, and as it was some
four or five feet high our fellow travellers imagined we had with us a corpse '
rolled up in paper. Arrived home I would not consent to the house being
disfigured with the thing, so as a compromise my brother planted it on the
summit of a fern rockery in the corner of the garden, where it stood for
many months, and I had forgotten its existence save when it was directly in
sight. Out of sight it was out of mind. One autumn morning, just after I
had risen from bed, I was combing my ambrosial locks before the looking-
glass, and I caught myself reflecting that after all it was a pity the thing had
blown down and broken, for it did not look so bad at a distance surrounded
by the ferns. " Strange too," I thought to myself, " that the head should
be so neatly decapitated, though the fall made no other fracture." Then I
pulled myself up mentally, for all at once it came to my mind that I had
been dreaming, and I smiled to myself that such a trumpery thing should be
the subject of my dreams. The whole matter would have been forgotten,
would have gone to the limbo of things unremembered, but on going down
stairs to breakfast and finding the table not yet furnished, I went for a stroll
into the garden. It was wet underfoot and a strong wind was blowing.
When I game to the fernery I gave a start and for a moment I stood tout
ebuhi, for there was the poor Venus de Milo, the body unbroken, lying across
the ferns, and the head, neatly decapitated, in the middle of the walk,
exactly as I had seen it in my dream. For the moment T was convinced that
I had been walking in my sleep and had visited the garden, but that I
found could not be the case, as it had rained all night and my garments
would have been wet through, and my feet, if unshod, muddy, or their
covering, if they had any, defiled, which was not the case. Neither am I
given to walking in my sleep. I have never done so. I walked back to the
The Subliminal Self. 375
house feeling, to use a vulgar phrase, "knocked all silly." Can it be, I
asked myself, and I have asked myself the same question a score of times
since, that while my body material slumbered in bed, some immaterial part
of my being wandered in the garden ? If so, that immaterial part of me had
a remarkable disregard for wind and rain.
The episode is a trifling one, but it has often given me pause and it
remains to me inexplicable. As you know I am a Bank Holiday sort of
young man, not given to day-dreams. J HuSter Watts.
In answer to the inquiry whether the statue could have been seen from
his bedroom window, or from any other window in the house, Mr. Hunter
Watts says :—" No, impossible ; only by stretching the head out of window
another side of house—from rooms occupied by ladies."
A lady to whom Mr. Watts related the dream corroborates as follows :—
45, Hungerford Road, Camden Road, N., Augitst 9th.
All I can at all remember about the Venus is that Mr. Watts told us one
morning that a strange thing had happened, he having dreamt that the
statue had been decapitated, and on going into the garden he found it was
so, and that the head of the Venus had been cut clean off, and had rolled on
to the path from the figure, which had been placed in the rockery among
the ferns. He was very much astonished, as the dream was vivid, and ho
saw the headless statue as he had seen it in his dream. We could never
explain how it happened, the head being, as it were, cut off.
M. Adams.
Again this quasi-instinctive knowledge, realised on awaking from
sleep, of the mutilation of a secluded statue may be compared with
cases where a seer becomes aware of the position of a dead body,—
sometimes of no special interest to himself.
P. 226.
The following case was borrowed originally from the Rd'njio-Philosophical
Journal and quoted in Light, February 7th, 1891.
A prominent Chicago journalist states that his wife asked him one
morning while still engaged in dressing, and before either of them had left
their sleeping room, if he knew any one named Edsale or Esdale. A negative
reply was given, and then a " Why do you ask ? " She replied : " During the
night Idreamed that I was on the lake shore, and found a coffin there with
the name of Edsale or Esdale on it, and I am confident that some one of that
name has recently been drowned there." On opening the morning paper,
the first item that attracted his attention was the report of the mysterious
disappearance from his home in Hyde Park of a young man named Esdale.
A few days afterwards the body of a young man was found on the lake shore.
This case, with further matter, was sent to Dr. Hodgson by an
informant, to whom Dr. Hodgson replied as follows :—
Boston, Mass., October 22nd, 1888.
The first two substantial paragraphs appear to be a statement quoted
from the Chicago Times. You do not say whether you have any personal
37C F. W. H. Myers.
knowledge of the gentleman in question ; whether he personally confirms
the account ; whether you have the statement of his wife, over her
signature, confirming the details so far as she was concerned ; what the
date of the experience was, and what the date of the first written account
of it was ; whether any memorandum of the circumstance was made on
the day itself ; whether you have the independent confirmation of the
finding of the body of Esdaile ; whether it was possible that some account
of the young man's disappearance may have appeared in an evening paper of
the day before, rendering it possible for [your informant's] wife to have read
the account, or seen some heading referring to it, and afterwards forgotten
it ; and I venture to suggest that if you have not worked up the case in this
way, it should be so worked up.
I am desirous, of course, that whoever is engaged in collecting such cases
should present as much corroboration as possible for each.
Richard Hodosox.
On this the then Editor of the Reluiio-Philosophical Journal, the late
Colonel Bundy, remarks : —
I have known the gentleman and his wife mentioned in case No. 10, by
reputation, for some fifteen years, and personally for six years. I obtained
from each of them a report of the case when first published, October 14th.
1885, and each said that the statement was true as published in the Chicago
Times of that date. I saw both of them September 23rd, [1888], just prior
to publishing the report, and read it to them ; each declared it to be a true
report of the occurrence. After receipt of Mr. Hodgson's letter I called to -
see what further information they could furnish in regard to the other points
mentioned therein. After reading the letter, the gentleman, who is Mr.
Franc B. Wilkie, the well-known editorial writer, and "Poliuto" of the
Chicago Times, at once volunteered the following statement :—
Chicago, October 26th, 1888.
In October, 1885, I was one of the editorial writers on the Chicago
Times, and wrote the item referred to. I am the individual mentioned
therein. The date of the occurrence was about a week prior to the date of
the report in the Times. I did not make any written memorandum on the
day it occurred ; as the coincidence was so strong and distinctly marked, it
made such an indelible impression on my mind, I did not forget any of the
details during the time prior to writing the item. The name was one
unknown to me previous to seeing it in the Chicago Daily News the morning
referred to. I had not seen any reference to the disappearance before that
morning. My wife said at the time, and still says, that she had never seen
the name, or heard in any way of the disappearance. I was, of course,
on the look-out for any report of the return of the young man, or of the
finding of his body, and saw the account of the finding of the body in the
Chicago papers a few days after the appearance of the first item in regard to
his disappearance ; and then wrote the item for the Times of October 14th. I
had at the time carefully examined the case in all its bearings, and although
I may not agree with the various explanations or theories that might be
offered in regard to it, I gave it as a curious coincidence and one that I
knew to be true.
Franc B. AVilkie.
The Subliminal Self. 377
To which Mrs. Wilkie adds the following :—
Having read the foregoing statement, I wish to certify to its truth. The
dream was the cause of considerable comment for tho few days following, as
to the various features of the case, and whether the dream would be verified.
My previous presentiments had been with reference to intimate friends,
which made this one appear the more marked, and caused Mr. Wilkio to
examine the matter more carefully in all its details.
The residence of the young man was eight miles from our home. I am not
ware that we have ever known any of the young man's friends, or anyone
who knew him ; and am certain that had the fact of his disappearance been
mentioned in my hearing prior to the morning after the dream, I should
have remembered the name, for I distinctly remembered that it seemed
peculiar to me, when I saw it in apparently large silver letters on the coffin.
Mrs. Fbanc B. Wilkie.
The Chicago Daily News of the morning of Wednesday, October 7th,
1835, was an eight column paper, and at the top of the seventh column
appeared the following :—
W. E. Esdaile, in the employ of Robert Warren and Co., commission
merchants in the Royal Insurance-building, and residing at 4,523, Woodlawn-
avenue, Kenwood, has been missing since last Friday morning. Mr.
Esdaile is a Canadian, unmarried, and twenty-seven years of age. His
family resides at Montreal. He has been resting from business during the
last week, and has spent much of his time strolling along the lake shore.
As his accounts are all right, and there is no assignable reason for his dis
appearance, his friends fear that he has committed suicide. Overwork, it is
thought, and an injury to his skull, received some years ago, may possibly
have brought on insanity. The police are searching for him.
The records in the Coroner's office for Cook County, 111., show that
inquest No. 941 was held on October 10th, 1885, on the body of Wm. E.
Esdaile, drowned October 2nd, in Lake Michigan, whether by accident or
otherwise the jury were unable to determine.
Mr. Robert Warren, of the above-named firm of Robert Warren and Co.,
says that he landed in New York on his return from a trip to England, on
Monday, October 5th, 1885, and reached Chicago,Wednesday, p.m., October
7th ; that he did not hear of the disappearance of Mr. Esdaile until he
reached home, and knows of no public announcement of the disappearance
prior to that in the News of October 7th ; that, had there been any, ho
would very likely have heard of it between New York and Chicago, as he was
on the look-out for news from Chicago.
Mr. Ward, who had charge of Mr. Warren's business during his absence,
says that he was informed of Mr. Esdaile's disappearance on Friday evening,
October 2nd. On Saturday, a.m., he examined tho papers, etc., found in
the young man's room ; found no evidence of suicidal intent, but indications
that he was not in his right mind, and concluding that he might have
wandered off, a detective was employed to search for him. The matter was
kept very quiet, so as to prevent publication of sensational reports that
would alarm his friends, and also render it unpleasant for the young man
should he be found. Mr. Ward is not aware that any announcement of the
1
378 F. W. H. Myers.
matter was made in any papers, before the item in the News of October 7th.
They were following on the track of a young man, whose description corres
ponded somewhat with that of Mr. Esdaile, who had been seen at the
waterworks of Hyde Park (and Kenwood), and then had travelled around the
end of Lake Michigan into Indiana, and were expecting to find him very
soon, when on Saturday morning, October 10th, notice was received that the
body of Esdaile had been found on the lake shore near his home.
In referring to the matter,the Chicago Tribune of Saturday, October 10th,
1885, says : "It will be seen that the detectives are on a warm trail and will
probably overtake the young man, who is believed to be insanely wandering
about without aim or purpose." [There was thus no general belief that lie
had been drmmted.]
A Chicago reporter, who resides at Kenwood, and was acquainted with
Esdaile, says that he first heard of the disappearance through the school
children, who said that the teacher had told them that Mr. Esdaile was miss
ing, and requested them to tell their parents, and ask if any one had seen
him. The reporter, knowing Mr. Ward, called on him to obtain the parti
culars for publication, but Mr. Ward objected, saying that Mr. Warren had
been away for some time ; that Mr. Esdaile had been practically in charge
of the affairs of the firm ; that Mr. Warren had just landed in New York,
and a public announcement of the matter in the papers would cause him
unnecessary alarm. The reporter says that the item in the papers, Wednes
day, October 7th, was the first public announcement of the matter.
The next case is somewhat similar ; but the precise time-relation
between incident and vision is not clear. It is evidentially a weak
point that the vision was not mentioned before the incident was
known.
M.C1. 90.
The following account was written in the early part of 1892. The writer
is a retired professional man.
Wednesday, November 18th [1891], I was lying on a sofa about 2 p.m.
in half doze, when my thoughts reverted to Southsea, where I had spent
about a fortnight in June last. A mental picture, realistic enough almost for
a dream, of the animation and stir of the pier and steamboats'interested me,
when all at once my mind became absorbed with the conception of a
barge-like vessel with diving apparatus engaged in some submarine work. The
impression of something being wrong, with a hurried agitated effort to raise
a diver from the water, impressed me. There seemed to be a difficulty in
working the winding-up machine, and in my dream, or semi-dream, I was
excited with the fear that they would fail to get the diver up alive through
the apparent hitch. At last in my reverie, they succeeded in raising him,
and then, as if I were in the barge, I seemed to 6ee the helmet removed, and
the diver was dead. I thought no more of the matter except as a rather
peculiar instance of a half-awake dream. But the next day when reading the
Daily News, I was startled on coming across a paragraph stating in effect
that "yesterday morning" (the day of my mental impression, dream, or call
it what you will), whilst a diving party were engaged in doing something to
The Subliminal Self. 379
some chain moorings in Portsmouth Harbour, the diver got probably in some
ray entangled, and signalled to be token up. The effort was at once made to
do so, but considerable delay was occasioned by the supposed obstacle, and
when at last he was brought to the surface he was quite dead, black in the
face, and blood oozing from his mouth and nostrils. Struck with the at least
remarkable coincidence, I read the paragraph to my wife and a lady who was
present, as answering so precisely in every particular to my mental impression
of the previous day, which could not have been more than three or four hours
at the earliest from the time the accident actually occurred.
The lady through whom the case was received writes :—
May 16r/i, 1892.
I called upon Mr. , and he said that he had not mentioned his dream
(nr vision) to any one until some hours afterwards, when the newspaper
came in. A Miss , an elderly lady who was present when I called, said
that she was also there when the newspaper came in, and remembered his
exclamation of surprise and his saying, " Why, this is the very thing I
dreamed of yesterday," or some words of that sort.
The following is the account of the incident given in the Daily N&ies of
Thursday, Nov. 19th, 1891 :—
Death of a Diver on Duty. —Yesterday morning a party of men were
engaged in repairing the moorings of the Corporation Buoy in Portsmouth
Harbour, which had been damaged during the recent gale. A diver named
Luke went down, but he had been below only four or five minutes, when he
gave the customary signal for being hauled up, having apparently become
entangled. Some difficulty was experienced in getting him above water, but
this having been accomplished and the helmet removed, he was found to be
black in the face and bleeding from the nose. As soon as possible he was
conveyed to the Harbour Railway Station, where he was found to be dead.
It is sometimes claimed that a specially gifted seer is able to
discover missing corpses by some effort of clairvoyance,1 or perhaps, as
claimed in the first of the following cases, by intimation from some
spirit interested in the deceased.
P. 257. Through Rev. M. J. Savage.
Dear Mr. Savage,—My mother has written out for you, at my request,
the particulars of the drowning of the Mason boys. She has told the story
in her own way. She has suggested copying it, but at her age, seventy-
five, I think it is too much of a task for her. All the parties she refers to,
excepting Mrs. Brigham, who was the one she wished to take her place in
going to Boston, are now living, and on my return from Washington I will
go to N. and get the evidence of the mother, brother, and Mr. Clark.
I do not remember the particulars as does my mother. A sister of the
boys was a schoolmate of mine. I knew at the time that the boys were
missing. I knew from the sister the particulars of the case as it went on.
1 See a case communicated by Dr. Wiltse, Vol. VII., p. 77.
380 F. W. H. Myers.
I went to the lake on the Monday morning my mother speaks about, to
soe the cannon fired. It was—the firing of a cannon—an unusual event to
us children. The town was so small we knew everything that was occurr
ing. I was at the lake when the grappling irons were used in the afternoon,
and remember to have heard the men say it was no use to drag the lake
further, as the boys certainly were not in it, notwithstanding the mother
felt so decided that they were there. I was in the crowd that met my
mother at the station, and heard what she said, and went with the rest to
the lake, and stood and listened to the laughs and jokes of those about me
at what was going on.
It is just as she said. A silence that was terrible fell over us all, as, in
less than five minutes, both boys were lying dead on the shore before us
all.—Very truly yours,
Eleanor F. Crosby.
March 23rd, 1891.
In March, 1864, I was living in N., about 17 miles from Boston. I had
a neighbour who had, among other children, two sons, the eldest about 15,
the younger brother 11. Their names were Willie and Joshua Mason.
The older brother, Willie, was employed in the store of Weeks and Potter,
druggists, on Washington-street, Boston. This Willie Mason had come to
N. on Friday at two o'clock, to spend Sunday with his mother, Mrs. Joseph
Critcherson. (The boys' father was dead, and the mother had married
again.) The mother had gone to Boston the same day Willie Mason had
come out to make the visit. It had been her intention to come out on the
same train with her son, but he had come out earlier than he had expected.
He reached N. about two o'clock, and went immediately to his home. He
said to his younger brother, not finding his mother at home and not meeting
her at the station, " Let us go to meet mother."
These are the last words he is known by anyone living to have spoken,
and this was his intention as he left the house in company with his brother
to the depot. Mrs. Critcherson did not come on this train from Boston,
but on the one following ; her boys did not meet her, neither did she find
them at home when she reached there. This was late Friday afternoon.
They did not return that night, but all day Saturday, as nothing was heard
from them, she became almost frantic with grief. She said her boys would
never keep away from her and give all this trouble if they were where
they could come to her. Her husband, the stepfather to the boys, was in
the army, and was then in Washington. On Saturday, friends of the family
sent to Boston to see if they had gone there. They interviewed the train
conductors to learn if any such boys had been seen going in any direction.
All the mother knew of the boys was what the sister of the boys had told
her on her return, that Willie had left the house saying he was going to
meet his mother.
Mrs. Critcherson, so far as I know, was not acquainted in any way with
Spiritualism, and she afterwards became a member of the orthodox church
in N. She had all the time, while gentlemen were visiting camps and
telegraphing in different directions, a very strong impression that her boys
were in the lake, and did not come to her because they could not. No one
in town believed this to be possible. In the first place, they were not
The Subliminal Self. 381
seen by anyone on the lake. Then, in March, there was nothing to attract
boys to the lake. But, to quiet the anxiety of the mother, some of the
gentlemen of the town had agreed to take cannons to the lake, and fire them
from a point near the boat-house on Monday morning, as it was known that
bodies having been long in the water could be raised by this procedure.
For, granting that the mother's impressions were correct, which no one else
believed, the boys had been from Friday afternoon till Monday morn in the
water. A Mr. Andrew Clark, who had a livery stable inN., agreed to go
to Boston Monday morning to get grappling irons to drag the lake more
thoroughly. I had not been to see Mrs. Critcherson till I went about nine
o'clock on Monday morning. I knew she had many in and out continually,
and, believing the boys would come back before long, I was not uneasy about
them. I suppose why I believed they would return was because I could not
think of them as going to the lake at this season of the year ; and then I had
not seen her, to be influenced by her feelings, and shared the general
feeling of the town that, while the boys were known to every one to be
unusually fine boys, still this must be a frolic which would have an ending
soon.
As I said before, I went to Mrs. Critcherson's about nine o'clock on
Monday morning to offer her my services, because I had by this time begun
to feel uneasy myself, while I still believed they were alive somewhere. I
found Mrs. Critcherson very much unnerved, and saying, " Only one thing
remained to be done, and that was for some one to go to Boston and
consult a clairvoyant," and turning to me, she said, " Mrs. D., you are the
one I want to go." I had never visited a clairvoyant or consulted one, and
did not know where to go or how to turn. I said to her, " I am not the person
to go," and turning to another friend I said, "Now she is just the person to
go." I had offered my services, but I did not wish to go on such an errand
and an undertaking I was not familiar with. She turned to me again, and
said, "1 wish you to go for me." I said that I would go home and get
ready at once, to go on the 11 o'clock train. I must say here, I had no
faith that anything would come from this visit to Boston. By the time 1
reached the station, at 11 o'clock, it was pretty generally known in N.
that I was going to Boston to consult, as a last resource, with a clairvoyant,
as they had already fired the cannons with no result, and were sure now that
the boys were by no possibility in the lake. On the same train going in, was
this Andrew Clark going after the grappling irons. He said to some of the
townspeople at the station that he would return as soon as possible. He
did arrive in N. on the two o'clock train, and went with a large number of
persons to the lake, but after using the irons for some time, they all gave
up and went to the town again, saying, "It is of no use ; the boys we
cannot find." The mother still felt sure they were in the lake, until they
were found Monday eve.
I arrived in Boston at 12 o'clock. I went, as I had been told to do, to
the Banner of Light office, and asked there, as a stranger, if they could
direct me to some reliable clairvoyant. They directed me to some one on
or near Court-street. I found the woman engaged. The gentleman who
answered the bell-pull directed me to a clairvoyant on Dix-place. When
I arrived at Dix-place I found this woman also engaged, but she directed me
2 p
382 F. W. H. Myers.
to a Mrs. York, on Washington-street, near Common-street. It was about
three o'clock. A sitter was leaving as I rang the bell. Mrs. York opened
the door herself. When I told her my errand, she told me she could not see
me till the next day, but on my saying the next day would be too late, she
told me to walk into her parlour, and she would go out and take a walk
and on her return would see me. These were the only words she addressed
to me, and I am sure she knew nothing of me whatever, where I came from,
or what my errand was about. I spoke no words with her further than
those I have already stated, neither had I ever heard of Mrs. York before,
and she knew no one in N. She was gone about 15 minutes, when she came
into the room, and going to the fireplace at once, and with her back to me,
and without my speaking one word, she said, "They went East before they
went West." (The railroad station is east from the house in which their mother
lived, and the lake west.) She then said, " They saw the fire, and so went
to the water." (It was afterwards found out that on this day, Friday
afternoon, some men were burning brush near the lake ; that was what
attracted them up there.) She then went on to describe the boat-house,
with a hole in the side of the boat-house. She then said, " They went in
through this hole in the side." She described the boat, which she said was
a " narrow boat, painted black,'' and said, " Oh dear, it was never intended
that but one person should get into it at a time." She told of their pulling
out a little way, the younger brother falling into the water first, and the
older brother trying to save him, and also said, "The place where they are
is muddy, and they could not come to the surface." " Why," said she, "it
is not the main lake they are in, but the shallow point which connects the
main lake, and they are so near the shore, and if it was not this time of the
year (March) you could almost walk in and pick them up." She told of
the citizens' interest in trying to find them, and said, " They will not find
them ; they go too far from the shore ; they are on the left of the boat-
house, a few feet from the land." Then I said, "If they are in the water,
they will be found before I can reach home." She said, " No, they will not
be found before you get there ; you will have to go and tell them where they
are, and then they will be found within five minutes after you reach the
lake." She made me promise to go with them to the lake. She said, "They
are very near together ; after finding one you will quickly find the other."
It was not more than ten minutes before the boys were found and on the
way to their mother's house, after I told them. I reached Natick at five
o'clock. Thore was a crowd at the station. When I got out on to the
platform, some gentleman said to me, "Mrs. D., what did the clairvoyant
tell you?" I answered, "Haven't you found them yet?" They said no,
and then I told them what Mrs. York had said, and went with them to the
lake. In looking into the boat-house it was found that the long narrow boat
owned by Mr. Benning Hall, and painted, as she had said, all in black, was
missing ; this boat, as she had said, ' ' was to hold only one man, and was unsafe
occupied by two persons." (I did not know at the time of my sitting with
Mrs. York that Mr. Benning Hall was the owner of such a boat, or that the
boat-house was used to shelter a boat of this description. I had never seen
such a boat owned by any one ; so this part she did not reach from my mind.)
And this boat was found in a cove some distance from the boat-house, a few
The Subliminal Self. 383
days after. Neither did I know of the "hole" in the boat-house until I
reached the lake on this afternoon. Finding that what she said of the boat
aud the hole in the boat-house was true, I began to think the rest might be
true also ; but no one in the crowd, so far as I know, did place any
confidence in her statement. I stood on the shore and two boats put off
with men holding grappling irons. I was able to tell them how to direct
their course. Three or four strokes of the oars and the elder brother of the
boys who were missing, and who was holding one of the grappling irons,
exclaimed, "I have hold of something." The men stopped rowing, and he
raised the body of the largest boy above the water. In taking the body
into the boat, the boat moved a few lengths. They were told to go to the
same place where the eldest had been found, and almost immediately brought
up the other body. It was not ten minutes after reaching the lake that the
boys were found, and were being taken to their home. As Mrs. York had
said, they were in a muddy place ; their clothing testified to the fact.
The disappearance of the boys in the manner I have described is known
by fifty persons now living in Natick. I cannot say how much larger the
number is.
She had while in this trance, by using books on the table, showed me the
boat-house and the shore so well, that any one from the description could
have gone directly to the water and found them.
I asked her how she came by this information. She answered, "The
boys' father told me." How did she know the boys' father had been dead
several years ? Elizareth Everett Davis.
Boston, May Uth, 1891, 2.38 p.m.
I met Mrs. Davis within the last hour, on the street. Her daughter,
Mrs. Crosby, was driving her to the station. She is going to see her sister
in Natick.
She told me that the medium, Mrs. York, told her that it was Mr.
Mason's spirit—the father of the two boys—who told her where the bodies
of the boys could be found in the lake. T „
' M. J. Savage.
Natick, May 5th, 1891.
I am the sister of Mrs. Elizabeth E. Davis, and lived in Natick at the
time of the disappearance of the Mason boys. I remember the fact that my
eister went to Boston to consult a clairvoyant by request. The name of the
clairvoyant was Mrs. York. Mrs. York was a perfect stranger to my sister,
she never having heard of her before she left Natick for Boston. I heard
her relate all the particulars at the time, which are found in her statement.
1 have heard her relate it many times since without any variations. I
remember that when my sister went to consult the clairvoyant she had no
confidence that she would receive any information that would be of use in
finding the boys, or that after Mrs. York's directions they would prove true.
She even hesitated to relate what Mrs. York had told, but, being met by a
large delegation at the station, she felt that she must, it being demanded
what she had been told, Mrs. York having made her promise that she would
do so, and charged her to bo sure and be explicit. I know my sister did not
2 f 2
384 F. W. H. Myers.
believe they were in the pond. She thought, like most others, that they had
gone out of town, perhaps visiting encampments. The medium used books
to indicate and illustrate by existing objects unknown to Mrs. Davis, the
terminus of the two directions, and said, "Where these lines cross, there you
will find the boys." Everything had been done that could be to find them
when the train arrived at Natick at five o'clock. Mrs. York charged her to
return as soon as possible, as the boys would not be found until she (Mrs.
Davis) had given the directions. At the Natick railroad station she told her
story but the men insisted that she should go with them to the lake, which
she did directly. They followed Mrs. Davis's directions and in a few
moments she said, "There is the place." One of the boys was immediately
pulled to the surface, and in a few moments the other. Mrs. York stated to
Mrs. Davis how the drowning happened , to the effect that the younger fell
out of the boat first and that the older boy in trying to help him was also
drowned. There were many there who witnessed the recovery of the bodies,
and 'twas a very impressive moment, and is considered one of the most, and
perhaps the most remarkable occurrence ever happening in Natick.
This is a bare statement of facts which can be attested by many persons.
Catherine S. Rice.
Witnesses to signature :- Isaac Everett
Marietta Rice.
1 am the mother of William E. and Joshua P. Mason, who were drowned
in Lake Cochituate, Natick, Massachusetts, on Friday afternoon, March
25th, 1864, aged sixteen and thirteen.
March 25th I was out of town till evening. During my absence my son
William arrived from Portland, Maine, where he had been temporarily
employed by H. H. Hay, wholesale druggist, during the rebuilding of the
store of his former employers, which had been destroyed by fire. This
firm's name was Weeks and Potter, Washington-street, Boston, and he had
just been recalled to them and was to begin work with them again in their
new store the following Monday.
On reaching his home, he found me absent and left home with the
intention of meeting me at the depot at five o'clock, accompanied by his
brother Joshua.
I came two hours later and I was met by a little friend of theirs who told
me that Willie had got home. On my reaching home I enquired where
he was, and was told that he and Joshua had gone out to meet me on the five
o'clock train, since which time they had not seen either of them. From the
moment when they said they had not seen them, I wondered where they were,
but consoled myself with the thought that they might be calling on some of
their associates who were perhaps pleasantly entertaining them, which caused
their delay.* When bed-time came and they did not return, I became very
anxious, and had a sleepless night.
At this time my husband, their step-father, was in the army and
consequently could not help me. The next morning an elder son began
with me to make enquiries. We rode to every point where we hoped
information concerning them might be given. To our sorrow no information
relating to their whereabouts could be obtained.
The Subliminal Self. 385
Saturday, at about five o'clock, we returned and reported to our
neighbours, who had become very much interested on account of their
disappearance, that we could learn nothing from them. They offered their
services, and at my suggestion immediately instituted a search, going to
different towns, each individual acting on his own ideas as to where they
might be found, as I could give no suggestions. Every ono returned failing
to have obtained any information.
They then came to me to ask what further I wouM wish them to do. My
reply was that were my husband at home, I could say just what I would have
done, and I said that would be to have the lake searched for them, for I felt
they were where they could not reach me, and must be in the pond, or they
certainly would be at home. No one believed they could by any means be
in the pond, but this was my own strong impression. To gratify me they
commenced their search in the pond immediately on Sunday evening.
During this evening a boat was discovered floating on the opposite shore.
My brother came to me at about midnight on Sunday and said, "I am
afraid your apprehensions are correct, for we have found a boat afloat."
They suspended further operations till morning because of the darkness.
On Monday morning early the engine bells and church bells were rung to
call the citizens together to organise so as to systematically search the pond.
Nearly all business was suspended. They fired a cannon and used
grappling irons and spent all the morning in the effort to find my boys.
They came, some friends, every half-hour, to report to me the result of their
search, and to relieve my anxiety all they could.
Mrs. Davis called at about ten o'clock and wished to know if she could
aid me in any way. I proposed that she should go to Boston to consult with
a clairvoyant, for I felt this was my last resort, though at the time I knew
nothing of clairvoyance and had no belief in it, but I wanted to try every
thing. I knew personally of no clairvoyant and left it all with Mrs. Davis,
the result of which visit she has already given, and I corroborate it. I do
not think that Mrs. Davis had any faith that anything would come from her
going to Boston, but she went only to gratify me. I did not say to her
anything about a boat having been seen afloat the night before.
All search for my boys was given up at about three o'clock. Every one
felt sure by this time that they could not be in the water, and despaired of
finding them and waited to see what directions Mrs. Davis would bring from
Boston, if any.
She reached Natick at five o'clock. Mrs. York, the clairvoyant, said that
my boys were in the pond, and she gave Mrs. Davis directions how to find
them and told when and where they would be found. They went
immediately to the pond. It was supposed by the townspeople that they
had dragged all the ground she described.
Mrs. Davis arrived in Natick at five o'clock, and at twenty minutes of
six my boys were brought into my house.
Mary A. Critcherson.
Witness :— Caroline Brigham.
Note.—Caroline Brigham was post-mistress of Natick for several years,
and was appointed to the position by Henry Wilson, or through his influence.
.386 F. W. H. Myers.
I have had read to me my mother's statement concerning the drowning of
my brothers, William and Joshua Mason, and I corroborate it with this
exception. I think my mother is mistaken concerning the finding of the
boat. To the best of my memory the boat she speaks of was seen for the
first time on Monday forenoon after the citizens had organized, and not on
Sunday night.
Sunday I was not at home. I drove to Readville and visited the camps
there. I also visited the Charlestown navy yard. From Saturday morning
till Sunday night I was driving all the time in different directions, and other
parties were going in further directions. My mother had all this time, after
they failed to reach home late Friday night, a very strong impression that
the boys were in the lake, and no one was able to change that feeling. We
did not make any attempt to search the lake till everything else had failed ;
it was a difficult thing to do any efficient work there without the assistance
of the townspeople, and no one could be made to feel they were by any
possibility in the water. It was in war times and the townspeople thought
they had gone away to enlist as captains' boys or drummer boys, but my
mother scouted the idea and would not listen to it for one minute.
On Monday morning the bells were rung, and the people congregated at
the engine house and there they organized. My mother located where she
felt sure the boys were, to the meadow part of the lake. We went in
detachments, surrounding the shore of that part of the lake. It was at this
time in the middle of the forenoon that this boat already named was found,
upside down, on the opposite side of the lake to where the boat-house was.
It couldn't by any possibility have been seen at the boat-house. I had
before this been up to the lake and walked, not all round the lake, but
enough to satisfy me that there was no boat to be seen. They fired a cannon
several times and moved the cannon to different points. We then went in
boats with grappling irons such as we could procure. We worked till about
three o'clock. We went several times to within a few feet of where they
were afterwards found. It was known that Mrs. Davis had gone to Boston
to consult with a clairvoyant. I had looked to find some hat or something
else to show that my brothers were drowned.
I began on Sunday to feel with my mother that they were in the pond, as
I could get no trace of them anywhere, though up to their being found I
could get no clue to lead me to suppose so. My mother had no reason to
think they were in the pond, further than the fact that she knew her boys so
well, especially William, who was the oldest, and knew they were such boys
they would never have kept away from her if they could have come to her.
I knew they could not have gone into the water to swim at that season of
the year, and another reason why I was led to think my brothers had not
gone to the water was because I knew they were afraid of the water.
I went to the station to meet Mrs. Davis because we had become dis
couraged. There was also a very largo crowd there to meet her. She told
me what Mrs. York had said, and gave me directions how to proceed, the
course to pursue with the boat. She went to the lake. I got into the boat.
I remember that a Mr. Langdon Spooner was with me in this boat. Mrs.
York said we must go a little north of west and not go so far from the
shore. The water was so shallow where they were drowned, that I made the
The Subliminal Self. 387
remark immediately after that if he, my brother William, had stood up
straight he would not have been drowned, his head would have been above
water. We followed Mrs. York's course nearer to the shore. I held the
grappling-iron and in this direct course Mrs. York had indicated I grappled
into the coat collar of my eldest brother a very short distance from
•hore. We brought the body to the land, and I did not go out again,
but remained by the side of the body already found. Mr. Langdon
Spooner, with a grappling iron at the end of a long pole, found the body
of my brother Joshua almost immediately after, as Mrs. York said it
i would be found.
I think it is well to state in this connexion, so that no confusion may
arise in the mind of any one reading this, that my mother has been married
three times. Her first husband, who was my father, was Albe 0. Hanscome.
I have two sisters, both of whom are living. Her second husband, the father
of the two boys who were drowned (and they were the only children by this
marriage), was Wm. P. Mason. Her third and present husband is Joseph
Critcherson.
Charles P. Hanscome.
Witnesses to signature :—
Eva C. Clement.
Natick, May 5th, 1891. Eleaxor F. Crosby.
Natick, Mass., May 27th, 1891.
1 am the stepfather of William and Joshua Mason. In confirmation of the
clairvoyance of Mrs. York I would say, about one year and a half after the
finding of my sons in a manner she described, Mrs. York came to my house
unexpectedly. This was her first visit to the town of Natick, Mass. She
said she had come to Natick wishing to visit the lake where the boys were
drowned. I accompanied her. When we had arrived within a short distance
of the lake, she requested me to fall back, saying she would show me the
place where the bodies were found. I fell back. She went to the shore
of the lake, going into what seemed to be a trance ; she picked up a stone
and, with her back to the water, threw her arm over her head and the stone
landed where they told me the bodies were found, her eyes being closed at
the time.
This is to me a mystery. Jo8ePH CrrrCHekSON.
Witnesses:- Mary A. Critcherson.
Arthur Waters.
In March, 1864, I had a livery stable in Natick in company with Mr.
Tyler Brooks. Mr. Critcherson and his family were acquaintances of mine.
Mr. Charles Sherman, Mr. Brooks and myself, after the boys were found to
be missing on Friday night, were more active than any one else in town,
outside the family, in trying to discover the boys' whereabouts. Mr.
Sherman and Mr. Brooks are now both dead. Although it happened so
many years ago, I had so much to do with it I remember the particulars of
our proceedings perfectly.
388 F. W. H. Myers.
When we began our work, none of us had the slightest idea as to where
i he boys were. I took one of my teams on both Saturday and Sunday and
drove everywhere, where any one said it was possible they might be found.
In these two days I drove miles. My partner, Mr. Brooks, and also Mr.
Sherman did the same, but we none of us could get a clue to them.
On Monday morning I drove to Saxonville and got the cannon which was
used for firing at the lake. After using this cannon I went to Boston on the
eleven o'clock train for irons to drag with ; before this we had used some on
the lake Monday morning that we had manufactured ourselves. I remember
that Mrs. Davis was on this same train, and that she was going to Boston to
consult with a clairvoyant. We both talked the matter over. Neither Mrs.
Davis nor myself had any faith she would get any news of the boys in this
way. I came out on the two o'clock train and went at once to the lake and
we used the irons, but with no result. We all got tired out and gave up and
went to the dep6t to hear what Mrs. Davis would say. I remember what she
told as being said by the clairvoyant. Mrs. Davis went to the lake, and the
boys were found just where she said they would be found, as well as in the
manner she had described, and as reported to us by Mrs. Davis.
One of my teams was at the lake, a wagon like an express wagon, and
their bodies were taken to their home in it. I don't explain how this was
done, the finding the boys. I only state the facts. We were about twenty
minutes at the lake.
Andrew I. Clarr.
Witnesses :—
Mrs. Charlotte A. Clarr.
Marietta Rice.
We have lived in Natick for forty-eight years.
We have never had any special acquaintance with Mr. and Mrs.
Critcherson and family, though we have always known of them. We have
known Mrs. Davis and her sister, Mrs. Catherine Everett Rice, and their
families for thirty-five years or more.
We were living in Natick at the time of the disappearance of the boys
and remember all that occurred at the time. No one knew where the boys
were, and every effort to trace them had failed till after Mrs. Davis's return
from Boston on Monday afternoon, when the boys were found where and as
she said they would be found, through the mediumship of a Mrs. York of
Boston.
I, G. A Colbath, was at the lake on Monday morning when the cannon
was fired. No one would have ever gone to the lake to look for the boys
again, had not Mrs. Davis returned from Boston, and told what the
clairvoyant said. Some thought they might have gone to the lake, and
others (this was the general belief) thought they had run away to enlist.
I, G. A. Colbath, was on my way to the post-office at night when an
acquaintance met me and said, "The boys are found, and a medium has told
where they were." The reason why it was not believed that they could be
in the lake was because, on the shore, nothing belonging to them could be
found. It is sure that the clairvoyant not only told where they were, but
located the exact spot.
The Subliminal Self. 389
It is our belief that the boys were found through the mediumship of
Mrs. York. We neither of us believe in Spiritualism. We are Universalists.
G. Albert Colbath.
Hannah M. Colbath.
Witnesses to these signatures :—
Chas. H. Taylor.
Dora Hair.
Note.—Mr. G. Albert Colbath is a brother of Vice-President Henry
Wilson, who died in Washington, November 22nd, 1875. Hon. Henry
Wilson changed his name from Jeremiah Jones Colbath to that of Henry
Wilson by an Act of the New Hampshire Legislature, in 1833. Mrs Colbath
was cousin to Mrs. Wilson.
E. F. Crosby.
We were living in N. at the time of the disappearance of the Mason
boys. We knew all the particulars of the case, although we had no part
in it, and were not at the lake when the boys were found. We remember
that there was great excitement in town Saturday morning, when it became
widely known that the boys were missing, they having disappeared on
Friday, the day before. We remember that every effort was made to find
them, and that, as a last resort, Mrs. Elizabeth Davis wont to Boston to
consult a clairvoyant. We also remember that the boys were found almost
immediately after Mrs. Davis's return from Boston on Monday afternoon,
the men working as she directed, she having received her directions from
the medium, Mrs. York.
Mrs. Davis is a personal friend of ours, we having known her for more
than thirty years, and we have no hesitancy in saying that we believe
that the medium, Mrs. York, whom she consulted, was the instrument
through which the boys were found.
(Signed) Seth W. Tibbktts.
Matilda B. Tibbetts.
Witnesses :—
Richard Foley.
Nellie D. Foley.
Natick, Mass., May 11th, 1891.
I add a somewhat similar case; where, however, the percipient had
a strong interest in the deceased ; so that we may suppose it possible
that influence was exerted by the mind of the dead child.
P. 178.
This case, which originally appeared in the newspapers in connection
with the report of an inquest at Birmingham, was investigated by Mr.
Martyn Smith, of Abberton Hall, Pershore, a Member of the S.P.R.
He writes :—
April 26th, 1895.
I was in court and heard all the evidence, which was on oath, and to my
Jttind seems to point directly to a case of thought-transference.
390 F. W. H. Myers.
[The following is the newspaper account of the inquest, sent by Mr.
Martyn Smith.]
Another inquest had reference to the death of Rose Foster (13), 32 Court,
14 house, Camden-street, whose body was found in the canal at Spring Hill,
the 19th inst. [i.e. April 19th, 1895.] The mother stated that her daughter
was very nervous and frightened, especially at thunder and lightning. A
little while ago she was told that she wa9 suffering from an affection of the
kidneys, which would put her life in danger unless she was very careful. She
had been living with her aunt, but on Good Friday she came home of her
own free will. On Wednesday she left the house suddenly, and was not seen
alive by witness again. Several witnesses were called, who spoke to seeing
deceased sheltering from the thunderstorm under the bridge, and Thomas
Tarpler said he was in a boat on the canal near the bridge when the storm
was at its height, and he heard a scream and a splash, but he did not see
any one. Elizabeth Turton stated that on Wednesday she was going with
the deceased over Spring Hill Bridge, when witness remarked to her, " Oh,
that water !" Witness said this because about twelve months ago she fell
into the water there. Deceased said, "I feel as if I could jump over there,"
(meaning the bridge). Witness upon this said to deceased, " Oh, you soon
want to part with your life. I have not seen enough enjoyment yet."
Foster answered, " You don't know what trouble I have had to go through."
Mrs. Jeffrey, of the George Inn, Grove-lane, Smethwick, aunt of the
deceased, said the girl had lived with her for some weeks. She was sulky,
and witness told her she would have to go back home if she did not behave
herself. Thereupon the girl left of her own accord. On Thursday the
girl's brother came to tell her she was missing. That night witness dreamt
that she was walking along the towing-path of the canal to her sister's
house, and that while stirring the water with her umbrella she saw the
face of her niece. Next morning she went to the scene, and found the
police dragging underneath the bridge. She asked them to drag at the
spot where in her dream she saw the face. They did so, and at once found
the body. It was some distance from the bridge.
Mr. Martyn Smith also sends us the following notes of his interviews with
Mrs. Jefferies. and with the Police Inspector who superintended the dragging
of the canal :—
May Uttt, 1895.
Mrs. Jefferies, of the George Inn, Grove Lane, Smethwick, says it was
the Wednesday after Good Friday that her niece (Foster) was missing. On
the following day her (Mrs. Jefferies') nephew, brother of the niece, called
on his aunt, saying that he did not think she was alive, as some girls had
told him his sister had said she would not speak to them again—meaning she
would not see them—and he suspected she was drowned. The aunt said,
" Oh, I should not take any notice of that, she'll turn up," or something to
that effect. Mrs. J., however, continued to think about it (as her niece used
to live with her), and the same night, Thursday, had a dream. She thoughts
she was walking along the side of the canal at Spring Hill with an umbrella,
which she let touch to ripple the water ; when at a certain spot she saw the
face of her niece appear above the surface twice, and the second time she
caught it by the hair, lifted her out and clasped her to her breast and kissed
The Subliminal Self. 391
her. She woke up after the dream much terrified. She told it to her servant
and may have told it to others.
The next morning (Friday) she heard that the police were dragging the
canal and went—she had not been near the spot for 5 or 6 years before—and
spoke to the sergeant, told him of her dream, and asked if he would try the
drag at the place she had seen the face in her dream. They did so. The face
ofthe girl appeared above the water just as she had seen it (in sleep) ; it sank
again, and the second time the face appeared in the same position, and the
brother leaped into the water and clasped the body to his breast and kissed
, the face as the aunt had dreamt she herself had done.
Mrs. Jefferies says that previous to anything unusual happening to her or
her connexions she has some " warning " by dreams. She is sister to the
mother of the drowned girl. She did not know before her dream that the
canal would be dragged, nor had she received any intimation about it.
Birmingham, May 7th, 1895.
Acting-Inspector Whittingham was told off in charge of two minor officers
to drag the canal near to the spot where the girl had been last seen. While
there he was accosted by the aunt, who stood by the canal side and appeared
to take great interest in what was going on, and she asked him whether she
might tell him a dream that she had had the previous night. Thereupon she
explained that in her dream she had a clear view of the dying girl, but some
distance from the spot where they were then dragging—about 55 to 60 yards.
The inspector suggested that the men should go to the other spot, and
recommenced the dragging, and they came across the body at the point
uidicated, the fourth or fifth time of putting in the drag.
Maetyn Smith.
These experiences, however,—call them what you will, travelling
clairvoyance or cosmopathic impressibility,—are not evoked by deaths
alone. The case of the Venus of Milo has already suggested that there
may be something like short excursions in which some fact near in place
or in interest is learnt. Sometimes these impressions take the form
of dreams, in which case there is generally some admixture of fantastic
detail. Sometimes a new belief or mental picture seems to survive
from sleep ; sometimes the fact is given through automatic writing, or
through crystal-vision.
^ In all cases the possibility of hyperesthesia has to be considered ;
but, postponing for the moment that discussion, I will here compare
six cases, (one of them previously published) which will give an idea
of this apparent diffusion of knowledge without any very obvious
telepathic channel. In all of these, however, a somewhat indirect
telepathy may be plausibly conjectured.
The cases concern a stolen linch-pin and a stolen horse, and a lost
dog, book, watch, and ship. In the case of the stolen linch-pin the
dreamer seems to have received an obscure notion of a mischievous
trick which had been played on a neighbour, before or during the
dream.
392 F. W. H. Myers.
P. 131.
From Commander F. M. Norman, R. N., J.P. of Berwick.
Cheviot House, Berwick-on-Tweed, February 19th, 1890.
On February 17th, 1890, I dreamed that I was driving, or being driven,
along the road near my house in an open cart with one horse. A man whom
I saw passing called out loudly, ' ' Look out, look out, take care ! " On
looking over the side of the cart, I saw the wheel had come off, apparently
owing to the loss of the linch-pin, and was rolling away by itself towards
the bank. The cart did not overturn, and I then awoke and got up.
After breakfast I opened my gate for the purpose of going to town. The )
first person whom I saw was a farmer, well known to me, by name Anderson.
He immediately complained to me that as soon as he went out of his house
that morning he observed one of the linch-pins of his cart lying on the
ground, the cart itself having been driven off by his son, who was evidently
ignorant of his danger. Anderson had run after the cart, and had succeeded
in restoring the linch-pin to its place without any accident having happened,
though the cart had travelled more than a mile.
I may add that he said that it had been done, he felt sure, on purpose,
by a man who owed him a grudge.
F. M. Norman.
In a subsequent letter our informant adds :—
March 6th, 1890.
After I dreamed, I woke. I woke just as I saw the wheel rolling away.
Then I went to sleep again, and woke at the usual time for getting up. l£
am not able to fix the hour of the dream.
I cannot give or suggest any connecting link at all. I had not spoken to
the farmer for many days before, and nothing beyond "Good morning" for
weeks, and certainly I had not been reading or talking about anything that
would lead up to the dream.
It is notable that the cart of my dream in which I was standing up was a
one-horse farm cart. In such a cart I had never set foot since I came to
this place 13 years ago.
I spoke to no one about my dream till I met the farmer, who was the first
person whom I met, just outside my gate, and he at once accosted me with,
"Captain, did you ever lose your helm at sea?" Not seeing exactly his
drift, I asked him why, or what he meant, and then he told me where he
had been, and what for.
The farmer was not a man who would be likely to come to me for help
or advice. His son was in my Bible-class for years, and I used to call
now and then to see the parents, but that is all. Not the son in the cart.
At the same time, also, the farmer would, no doubt, often think of me, and
so would his family, as I take a prominent part in public affairs here.
My dreams are few and far between, and are nearly ahcays about the sea
and early recollections.
If I eat anything that causes " nightmare " it takes the form of
" dodging" shells in the trenches before Sevastopol, where I served.
I don't dream of Berwick, its people, or surroundings, more than once in
three years.
Captain Norman writes again on March 10th, 1890 :—
The Subliminal Self. 393
Herewith I have pleasure in sending you "statements " by the Anderson
family. You wiU observe that Margaret's dream arrests attention in two
particulars. (1) That she dreamed about me on the night before the cart
was taken out. (2) That she dreamed about the child of the man whom her
father suspected. I may say that when I met her father outside my gate, ho
mentioned Z. as the suspected pel-son ; but in my account to you, I believe
I purposely suppressed the name.
Anderson declares that I have not been mentioned inside his house for a
long time before the occurrence.
F. M. Norman.
[Margaret Anderson's dream omitted as not clearly coincidental.]
Statement by Mr. Anderson, Farmer, High Greens, Berwick-on-Tweed :—
Between nine and ten on the morning of Tuesday, February 18th, 1890,
I went out into my yard, and I at once observed a linch-pin lying in a corner
close to the place where my cart usually stands. It immediately struck me
that some one who owed me a grudge had taken the pin out of the axle
Wore my cart had been driven off to my meadow by my son. I lost no
time in pursuing the cart, which I caught up just beyond Captain Norman's
gate. Fortunately, no accident had happened, and my son was not aware
that anything was wrong. I gave him the pin and he replaced it. Directly
afterwards Captain Norman came out of his gate, and on my telling him the
nature of my errand he said that he had dreamed during the past night that
he was driving in a cart along the road, and one wheel rolled off for want
of a linch-pin.
Michael Anderson.
Statement by Peter, son of the above :—
About 9.30 a.m. on Tuesday, February 18th, 1890, I harnessed my
father's horse to the farm cart, and drove past Captain Norman's house in
the direction of our meadows. Just after I had passed Captain Norman's
gate I heard some one shouting after me. On looking round I saw my
father, who ran up and produced our linch-pin, which he said some one had
taken out before I started, but I had noticed nothing wrong, and the wheel
was in its place. I replaced the pin and proceeded.
Peter Anderson.
Witness to the above two signatures :— Margaret Anderson.
Since Commander Norman was a Justice of the Peace, and well
known in the neighbourhood, it is perhaps just possible that the
thoughts of the offender may have " flown to " the magistrate who
would be likely to punish his malice, if detected.
The case of the stolen horse (L. 841, printed in Proceedings, Vol.
VIII., p. 399) resembles the linch-pin case, but the dream is much
more vivid and urgent. The emotion and perspiration during sleep
suggest that the dreamer seemed to himself to be actually witnessing
the theft with a sense of ineffectual rage and distress.
The case of the lost dog involves the apparent discernment of a
fairly continuous scene. Telepathy from the maid-servant alone could
394 F. W. H. Myers.
scarcely account for the whole vision ; but we may, perhaps, conjecture
that the mind of the finder of the dog was also in some way involved.
L. 969.
The following account was received, in 1893, from Miss C. H. Grange,
34, Old Broad-street, E.C.
" I was staying with friends in one of the Eastern Counties. Shortly
after I had come, my friend, Mrs. B., wrote to her sister in the North,
asking her to send off by train the colley dog which was only waiting at ,:
the old home until his mistress was ready to receive him. We were all
anxious to welcome ' Barrie, ' who was an old friend, and accordingly were
exceedingly pleased when a letter arrived, saying that he had been duly
despatched by express train. This letter arrived on a Monday morning,
and the writer added, 'The station-master here tells me that "Barrie"
should reach on Monday morning, or possibly even on Sunday, if
not delayed in London.'
"One o'clock came, and with it the sad intelligence that as yet nothing
had been heard of our colley. At intervals during that afternoon and
evening one or other of us might have been seen on the platform, inter
viewing porters as to the probable cause of the delay experienced hy
' Barrie ' on his journey.
" Tuesday's letter bag contained a letter saying, 'To-day I have had a
telegram from the station-master at York, saying that on Saturday afternoon
" Barrie " slipped his collar and disappeared.' <t
" The days passed by, and we never failed to include the station in our
daily walk, always with the same question on our lips ' Any news of
Mrs. B's dog t ' but a favourable reply never came.
" [On Friday of the same week] we arranged to visit Cambridge, and to
spend several hours in that most interesting town. On the return journey,
being very tired, most complete was the silence which fell upon us. As
far as I can remember, no one had mentioned ' Barrie's ' name since the
usual inquiry had been made in the morning, and indeed, as a week had
now elapsed since his loss, we were beginning [to give up the hope of
recovering him].
" Like all the rest, I was in a semi-sleeping condition. I do not say asleep,
for then what follows would be a dream, and certainly it was scarcely that—
no, merely in a tired condition of mind and body, I felt that peculiar sensa
tion which I am sure has been felt by many, that is, that though sufficiently
awake to know what is going on around, still your real mind seems to be far
away and almost separate from your surroundings. It seemed to me that I
was walking down a road, and before mo I could see quite plainly the colley
dog of which we had spoken and thought so much, being led by a man who
held him with a rope. I followed him with interest until he was taken up to
a door which I saw opened, and the flood of light from within showed me
the well-known figure of Mrs. B.'s maid-servant. It all appeared to me
so vivid that I suddenly started up and said to Mrs. B., ' Edith, " Barrie "
is found ! ' Every one was taken aback by the suddenness of this state
ment, and Mrs. B. laughingly said, ' Nonsense ! how can you possibly
know, and why raise false hopes in my mind '! ' I then, quite awake and
The Subliminal Self. 395
looking most intently at her, replied, ' Yes, he is found, and when we arrive
at Station the first thing to happen will be that a porter will come up
and say, "Mrs. B., your dog is found."' Then I went on describing the
scene of which I had just imagined myself to be a witness, saying, ' Ah,
there I see him going down the road. Now the maid is opening the
door.' Here there was a universal laugh, and at last I joined in it, whereat
all visions vanished. Still I maintained my opinion that the colley was
safe in , and when Dr. B. remarked that if all happened as I had said,
I should have a pair of gloves, I agreed, and promised him a pair if
' Barrie ' should prove still to be missing.
"In about forty minutes after this the train drew up at , and
Dr. B. opened the door and stepped out. Just as he was giving his hand
to Edith, a porter came up to her and said, 'Mrs. B., your dog is
found.' She exclaimed, ' Where is he ?' The man replied by whistling to
a fellow porter, who brought the dog from the other end of the platform,
and ' Barrie ' was soon overwhelming his mistress with rather boisterous
caresses. On our way home, Dr. B. remarked that I was only entitled
to one glove, as the scene I had so graphically described of the dog being led
down the road, was a myth. But On our arrival at the house, our first greet
ing from the maid was, ' Oh, it really is your dog, Mrs. B. ? I would not
take him in when the porter brought him about three-quarters of an hour ago.'
"I was paid the bet. „0 H Grangb „
Miss Grange tells us that the incident occurred in April, 1884, and that
the above account was written some weeks later, on her return home from
visiting Mrs. B.
Dr. and Mrs. B. added to the account a corroborative note, signed by
both of them, to the following effect :—
" Without accepting any psychical theory whatever as bearing upon the
subject, we can state that the above-mentioned facts have been to the best
of our recollection quite correctly recorded."
This note was written in May, 1893.
A letter from Mrs. B. to Miss Grange, enclosing it, says :—" I remember
about it, and what I forget Dr. B. says he remembers, and vice versa, so we
can with a clear conscience sign it for you."
The case of the lost book continues and corroborates a previous
A series of similar experiences on the part of the same informant (see
Proceedings, Vol. IX., chapter on Motor Automatism).
P. 201. Statement by Lady Vane :—
Hutton in the Forest, April 8th, 1894.
About a month ago I lost a book, a manuscript one, relating to this
house. I thought I had left it in my writing-table in my sitting-room, and
intended to add a note about some alterations just completed—but next day
the book had vanished. I looked through every drawer and cupboard in my
room and then asked' Sir Henry to do the same, which he did twice. 1 also
made the head housemaid turn everything out of them and helped her to do
so—so that four thorough searches were made ; but in vain. We also looked
396 F. W. H. Myers.
in the gallery and library (the only other rooms to which the book had been
taken) and could not find it. On March 28th I asked Lady Mabel Howard
to write about it. She wrote, "It is in the locked cupboard in the book
case—hidden behind the books. "
I said, "Then it must be in the library, because the bookcases are
locked," and Lady Mabel wrote, " Not in the library." I said, "Then it
must be in the ante-room in the cupboard," and asked if I should find it.
Lady Mabel wrote, "No, send Sir Henry." I asked, " Will he find it?"
and she wrote, " Of course."
Still thinking it could only be the ante-room or the library—on account
of the locked cupboard and bookcase, I asked, " Which end of the room ? "
Lady Mabel wrote, " The tapestry end." I asked, "Is it on the window
Bide of the room or on the other? " and she wrote, "The other." A. friend
staying in the house looked in the bookcases in the library at the tapestry
end, and in the cupboard in the ante-room (I had met with an accident
and could not go myself) and could not find the book, so we gave it up.
On April 5th Sir Henry was in my sitting-room and suddenly said, " I
have an idea ! Lady Mabel meant this room. There is the bookcase and the
locked cupboard in it—and the wall outside the door is covered with tapes
try." I said, "You have looked in that cupboard twice, and so have I and
the housemaid, and the book is not there—but look again if you like." Sir
Henry unlocked tho door of the cupboard and took out all the books (there
were not more than half-a-dozen) and put them on the floor. The last he
put back into the cupboard was a scrap-book for newspaper cuttings, and as
it was rather dark at 6.30 p.m. he could not see the name on the back and
therefore opened it to see what it was, and the lost manuscript book fell out.
Having searched this very small cupboard four times previously, either of
us would have been ready to swear that this book was not in it.
(Signed) Margaret Vajte.
Hbnry Vanr.
Writing to Mr. Myers about this case on April 10th, from Greystoko
Castle, Penrith, Lady Mabel Howard says :—
The day I got your letter I got a special letter sent over from Hutton
to say my pencil had found a valuable book that Lady Vane had lost. We
therefore walked over there on Sunday and I asked her to write it out.
It is so very curious, quite the best thing I think the pencil ever has done—
as it said, "in tho cupboard in the bookcase," and they couldn't think
where it meant—a cupboard in a bookcase —and this little cupboard is a
cupboard in the middle let into glass bookcases on either side. I had uo
idea of the cupboards or tapestries there, and the pencil wrote all this in the
sandwich paper at luncheon on the Point-to-Point race course."
So curious, too, the pencil said, "Send Sir Henry," twice. It was the
merest chance finding it, as it fell out of this scrapbook, and was hidden
behind the other books.
In another letter, dated April 14th, Lady Mabel Howard writes :—
I saw Lady Vane on February 24th when the book had not been lost.
I did not see her again till Easter Monday. The moment I got upstairs she
exclaimed, " I want you to find a book for me that is lost." No pencil nor
The Subliminal Self. 397
paper was forthcoming, so she said, "Never mind, write when you get
home," but I forgot, and it was two days after at the Point-to-Point race
that she asked me again, and we wrote it in the paper the sandwiches had
been in.
I was abroad all this March and it was then that there were repairs being
done in the house, and Lady Vane took the book down from where she kept
it (I don't know where) and having entered the repairs into it, put it down,
and from that moment it was never seen again. I must have been at Florence
when the book was lost.
' Marel Howard.
Are we to describe this as a knowledge of past, of present, or of
future? Or may we say that a telsesthetic perception of this kind is not
strictly conditioned by time, but includes some retrogressive knowledge
as to how things reached their present condition, and also some
progressive inference as to their coming development ? The element of
forecast in the present case,—the indication that it would be Sir
Henry Vane who would find the book,—is in itself very slight ; but it
cannot be ignored when we compare other messages of Lady Mabel
Howard's. See, for instance, the messages to Mr. Huth, Vol. IX.,
p. 46, where the element of precognition was strongly marked. In
this present case, the whereabouts of the book can hardly have been
supraliminally known to any human being ; since the workman or
servant whose hands may have slipped it into the larger book was
probably unaware of what it was, or even of his own unthinking
action itself. If, however, it were Sir Henry or Lady Vane who
unthinkingly placed the small book in the larger one—and this does
not seem quite impossible—Lady Mabel's knowledge might have been
drawn telepathically from their subliminal memory.
In the case of the lost icalch, to be next quoted, it might similarly be
suggested that the loser's subliminal self had seen the watch fall, and
afterwards communicated that knowledge telepathically to his sleeping
friend. The analogy of other cases, however, would seem rather to
point to an excursion or extension of the dreamer's perception, so as to
, include the field where the watch was found.
P. 176. J. L. Squires.
Prof. Jasies,—Dear Sir,—I am informed that you are at the head of
the Boston Branch of the English Society of Psychical Research, and beg to
call your attention to a singular incident which took place near here some
time ago, and which has never been chronicled. It is, in brief, as follows :—
A young man of this place, J. L. Squires by name, was at work on the
farm of T. L. Johnson, with another young man, Wesley Davis, who was one
'lay far from the buildings mending fence around a large pasture. Squires was
not with him, nor had he ever been far into the pasture. At some time dur
ing the day Davis lost his watch and chain from the vest pocket, and although
2 G
398 F. W. H. Myers.
he searched diligently, could not find it, as he had no idea as to the probable
locality of the watch. Although only a silver watch, Davis worked for a
living and could hardly afford its loss.
In his sympathy for his friend, Squires could not keep his mind off the
watch, and after two or three days thinking of it, went to bed one night still
thinking of it. During the night he had a dream, or vision, as we may call
it, and saw the watch lying on the ground with the chain coiled in a peculiar
position : rocks, trees and all the surroundings were perfectly plain to him.
Telling his story at the breakfast table, he was, of course, well laughed at,
but being so convinced that he could go straight to the watch, he saddled a
horse and found it exactly as he expected to.
All the parties concerned are wholly honest and reliable. I will have a
detailed statement sworn to if you would like it.
John E. Gale, Guilford, Vermont.
In the month of March, 1887, I, Jesse L. Squires, of Guilford, in the
county of Windham, and State of Vermont, being then in the twenty-third
year of my age, began working for T. L. Johnson, a fanner living in the
town aforesaid.
In the month of September following—the exact day of the month I do
not remember—I was about one mile from the farm buildings with a young
man named Wesley Davis, with whom I had for several years been acquainted,
and who had been working with me at said Johnson's for several months, look
ing after some cattle that had strayed from a pasture. The cattle, eighteen or .
twenty head, were found in a large mow lot, and seeing us, started to run
away in a direction opposite to that in which we wished to drive them. In
order to head off the cattle and turn them back, Davis ran one way and I
the other, and while running Davis lost his watch and chain from his vest
pocket, but did not discover his loss until eight or nine o'clock that night,
when it was, of course, too late to search for it. Believing that he must have
lost the watch while engaged in getting the cattle back into the pasture,
Davis and myself returned to the place the next morning and looked for the
watch all the forenoon. Not having any idea of the probable locality in
which the watch was lost, and not being at all certain that it was lost while
after the cattle, we did not succeed in finding it, although we searched for it
until twelve o'clock. The watch was one that Davis had had for some time,
and he was much attached to it, and felt very badly about his loss. He
worked hard for his living, and could not afford to lose the watch, for which
he had paid twenty-fivo dollars. I felt sorry for him, and thought about the
watch continually all the afternoon after we returned from looking for it, and
was still thinking of it when I went to sleep that night.
During my sleep, at what hour I could not tell, I saw the watch as it lay
upon the ground in the mow lot, over a mile away. It was in the tall grass,
at least ten inches high. The face of the watch was turned up, and the
small steel chain which was attached to it, lay in a curve like a half circle.
About three feet from the watch was a large spot where the grass had been
crushed and matted by a creature lying down ; about ten rods to the north
was a brush fence ; about ten or twelve feet to the eastward of the watch
was a granite cobble stone one or two feet in diameter, which lay about half
The Subliminal Self. 399
out of the ground. When I awoke the next morning, which was Sunday, I
felt as certain that I could go straight to the watch as if I had really seen it,
and told Davis so, and tried to have him go out and get it. He had no faith
in my "vision," " dream," or whatever it may be called, and would not go.
In spite of the jests and laughter of the entire family, I saddled a horse and
went directly to the watch, which I found with all its surroundings exactly
as I had seen it. I was not nearer than forty rods to Davis when the watch
was lost, as I ascertained after it was found.
The watch had run down and stopped, the hands pointing to 9.40 o'clock,
which I also noted in my dream.
J. L. Squires.
Guilford,Vermont, March 4th, 1892.
I hereby certify that I have known the above J. L. Squires for over
twenty years, and that I know him to be strictly temperate, honest, and
truthful. He has always been in the best of health. He tells me that he
has recently had an experience similar to the above, which I will send you,
ifyou wish.
If the above Ls ever put in type, please tell me where I can get a copy.
John E. Gale, Justice of the Peace.
The narrative, which next follows, of the lost ship,—the finding of
the Carnatic,—originally published in Harper's Magazine, without
Capt. Sargent's corroboration, has been greatly increased in evidential
value by that added testimony. Here, again, there seems a confusion
or coalescence of times, and a telepathy verging upon telesthesia. If
the central psychical fact was the appeal of Morton for help, yet the
series of scenes cognised seems to have involved the ship's striking
upon a rock some hours before, and a representation of the landscape
of the disaster.
P. 175. Lowell, Mass.,
October 18th, 1890.
Richard Hodgson, Esq., Boston.
Dear Sir,—Replying to your favour of the 17th, I send you a copy of
Harper's Magazine for August, 1880, with the article marked in "Editor's
Drawer." The episode there related is probably the basis of the erroneous
report which has drifted so strangely to you. The matter as written in
Harper is not embellished nor exaggerated in the least. I can vouch for the
absolute truth of the narrative.
George A. Hanscom.
From Harper's Magazine, August, 1880.
The following statement of singular facts, recalled by a recent article in
this magazine, is contributed by Mr. George A. Hanscom, of Lowell,
Massachusetts.
The reading of the "Puzzle for Metaphysicians " in the June number of
your monthly, recalls to the writer the most remarkable occurrence of like
2 a 2
400 F. W. H. Myers.
nature which a nautical experience of twenty years afforded. This is
another of those experiences which go to prove the occasional thinness of
the curtain which limits the natural vision of mortals.
In 1869 I was in Suez, in command of the British steamship Neiera,
belonging to the Bombay and Bengal Steamship Company—a company
owning a line of steamers born of the necessities of the manufacturing
world, when the supply of American cotton was so largely cut off by the
War of the Rebellion. The line was under the management of William F.
Stearns, now deceased, son of the late Professor Stearns, of Amherst
College, a man who, going to India penniless, developed qualities which
enabled him to rise on the flood tide of prosperity to a colossal fortune and
high social position, but, as it.proved, only to see his riches float out on the
receding tide, and leave his family but poorly provided for at his untimely
death.
The Neiera was lying in Suez-roads, the canal being not yet open, await
ing passengers, etc., before sailing on her return voyage to Bombay. The
Peninsular and Oriental Company's steamship Carnatic was also about
ready to sail for the same port, and only waiting mails and passengers. It
happened that the passengers for the two steamers came across the Isthmus
together, and that two old friends and school-mates met, the one to join the
Nesera, the other the Carnatic. A day was spent by the friends, who un
expectedly met on the Egyptian desert, in recounting their experience since
they last parted, and naturally enough there was a good deal of badinage
between them as to the comparative merits of the two steamers, and as to
which should first land on the " coral strand," upon which these "griffins"
were to be initiated into their duties in the " Civil Service," to which they
had been newly appointed.
The Carnatic was the first to be ready, and sailed from Suez in the morn
ing ; the Neera left early in the evening, some ten or twelve hours after the
mail steamer. The night was fine, and at breakfast time we had passed
Shaduan Island, were out of the Gulf of Suez, and into the Red Sea proper.
Breakfast was served on deck, under double awnings of heavy canvas. The
young gentleman who had left his friend the day before seemed somewhat
depressed in spirits, and during breakfast said rather anxiously, " Captain, at
what time did we stop last night 1 "
" Stop ! we have not stopped since leaving," was the reply.
" Not even to take soundings ? "
"No, the engines have not been eased since leaving port."
The young man seemed much surprised, and finally said that he had a
most vivid and remarkable dream during the night, and this he proceeded to
relate in substance as follows :—
"In my dream it appeared to me that the steamer was stopped during the
night, and that I went on deck to ascertain the cause. I saw a boat pulling
off from an island to intercept us, and a lantern was waved to arrest our
attention. As the boat came nearer I saw my friend Morton standing in the
stern. As he came up the gangway ladder I said, ' For God's sake, Morton,
what brings you here ? ' I never saw him plainer, nor heard his voice more
distinctly than when he said, ' The Carnatic has struck a rock and gone
down ; the passengers and crew are on an island close by, all safe, and we
The Subliminal Self. 401
want your ship to take them on board.' I dreamed that our ship stopped
until other boats came off with the remainder of the people, and we then
proceeded."
The narration of the dream made a profound impression upon the
passengers, but the captain, as in duty bound, laughed it off. The young
man proved a jolly sort of fellow, but was called "the dreamer " during the
rest of the voyage.
On arrival at Aden five days later, before our anchor was down, we were
hailed by a boat which had been despatched from the Peninsular and
> Oriental office, and asked if we had any news of the Carnatic, that ship being
a day overdue. We had no news to give ; but our "dreamer" quietly
remarked to me, "You may find that there is more to my dream than you
suppose."
A few hours completed our coaling, and we were off again for Bombay.
On arrival at that port we heard the news of the loss of the Carnatic, and the
circumstances were just as narrated to us two weeks before. The ship
struck on a rock near Shaduan Island some twelve hours after leaving Suez.
The passengers and crew were landed on the island ; the steamer subse
quently slid off the rock and went down in deep water. During the night a
steamer's light were seen by the shipwrecked crew, and a boat was sent out
to intercept her. Our " dreamer's " friend, Morton, went in the first boat ;
the remainder of the people were subsequently taken on board, and the rescu
ing steamer, not the Nesera, rescued the party. The "dreamer" told the
story as well as it could be told to-day.
It seems probable that our " dreamer's " vision was shown him at the very
moment the ship-wrecked people were embarking upon the steamer which
came to their aid, and that the Neiera was not ten miles from the scene at
the time.
It may be stated in conclusion, to show the perfection to which the postal
systom of the world has arrived, that the only letter addressed to the writer
which ever failed to reached him in all his twenty years' wanderings, went
down in the Carnatic.
Lowell, Mass., May 2nd, 1893.
R. Hodoson, LL.D.,—Dear Sib,—Replying to your favour of the 28th
ult., I thiiiic I wrote you long ago that I cannot now tell the whereabouts of
Morton. It was more than twenty years—nearly twenty-five years ago, and
I have long ago largely lost touch with both England and British India. If,
however, the matter should be published, with an intimation that you would
like to hear from him, he will come to the front - certainly so if published in
the English and Indian branches of the Society,—if he is still alive. "The
power of the press " is far-reaching. I can, however, give you one important
witness in the person of Captain R. W. Sargent, 708, Pine-street, Phila
delphia. Sargent was chief officer of the " Neiera " and knew all the circum
stances at first hand. He, Sargent, now occupies an important position in
the Cramp Steamshipbuilding Company, having recently left the sea after
many years in the American Steamship Line, by whom he was deputed last
year for a trip on the Russian Relief Service. I cannot think of any other
whose present address I can give. Possibly he can.
402 F. W. H. Myers.
The matter published in Harper was, however, written without embellish
ment when the case was fresh in mind, and may be relied upon.
Geo. A. Hanscom.
1358, Hanover-street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
November 10th, 1893.
Dr. Richard Hodgson, LL.D.,—Dear Sir,—Captain George Hanscom
wrote me about the matter, and a year ago, February last, I talked the
" Carnatic " incident over with him at his home in Lowell, Mass. He read
the article from Harper's for August, 1880, to me, and asked me if in my
memory he had stated the case as it was. As well as I can remember, the
statement is absolutely true, but he has not gone into the details as much
as he might have done, had he taken a more active interest in psychology.
I was second officer with him at the time, and thrown more in contact
with the young man. As I got older I became very much interested in these
subjects and probably have told the story hundreds of times to saloon
passengers in steamships I have commanded, as it is to me one of the clearest
cases on record of something leaving a man and coming back to him.
I cannot agree with Captain Hanscom as to the young man saying it was
a "dream." He insisted he saw it all, he resented it being considered a
"dream."
I do not remember the names of either of the young men, and have not
heard of either of them since.
The young men were going out to enter the telegraph service, and the
party divided, as a part of them wished a day longer in Egypt. The young
man on the Nesera, as well as we could find out, never saw the Carnatic. Yet
he described her to us quite as well as if he had been on board.
He had never been down the Gulf of Suez ; probably Captain Hanscom
forgot this. In my presence he asked him to describe the place where the
ship struck and where the passengers were, with the general look of the land,
which he did. When we were alone, Captain Hanscom, who was very much
impressed with the story, said to me, "Mr. Sargent, where did the ship
strike, what place did the people land, and what was the high land he saw
in the distance?" I replied, "The ship struck near Usshreifi Reef, the
boat landed on the Island of Jubal, and the land on the right hand was
Shaduan, and on the left Ros Mohamed." He answered, "That is what
I make it."
After twenty-four years this case, in its main points, is fresh in my
memory. I wish I could help you to trace the young men, but I cannot.
To me this one case has proved that some men have a dual personality.
I, of course, have heard of others, but I was shipmates with this one,
and it has settled the fact for me that there is something in man superior to
matter.
R. W. Sargent.
I will close this group of retrocognitive cases with a possible,
but obscure, telepathic basis by a curious incident where the
retrocognised fact, although in one sense extremely accurate, was
The Subliminal Self. 403
so presented as to be wholly misleading ; and in a way in which
no assignable intelligence (unless it were a forgetful dream of the
deceased debtor's or of the satisfied creditor's) would have been
likely to have presented it.
P. 170. Law Offices of H. and P.,
New Orleans, January 8th, 1894.
My Dear Sir,—-In May, 1889, I had purchased the residence property
) where I now live, and of course had looked into the title, as to conveyances
and liens. This work was concluded, when one night I dreamed this dream.
I was walking through the business part of the city, and met our sheriff,
whosaid, "I am going to sell that house and lot, corner of 2nd and Chestnut-
streets, for the claim of R. M v. J. C , for 446.50dols. " I was
annoyed, of course, thinking that there might have been some mistake in
the search for judgment liens -and then I woke up.
J. C had been a former owner. On my way down to my office next
morning I stopped to see his son, W. C , —his successor in business,—
and as a kind of joke, told him my dream. As I told him his face lengthened
visibly, and without saying anything, he wont to his ledger and after looking
at it said, "You made a slight mistake in figures— it was 444.50dols."—and
then, with a sort of awe, continued, "But with the interest, figured here in
pencil, it was just 446.50dols." I should add that J. C had been
embarrassed before his death, but had settled up his debts, so I had no
trouble. Now, had the claim been sued on, the sheriff and lien part of my
dream had no truth, but the debt and amount were precise. I knew R.
M very well, but never associated him in any way with J. C , nor
had the slightest reason, that I can recall, to suspect that C had ever
had any dealings with M , C being "in cotton" and M "in
sugar."
W. W. Howe.
Professor William James,
Cambridge, Mass.
No. 54, Union-street, New Orleans,
March Uth, 1894.
Professor William James,—Dear Sir,—Your favour of the 10th inst.
i isat hand, and in reply :—The occurrence referred to was certainly quite
startling and it was about as follows :—
The heirs of my father, deceased, had sold a property here to Judge W.
W. H , and some time after the sale had been passed and completed and
purchase price paid, Judge H called at our office one morning and said
that he had had a dream (probably the night before) which had annoyed him
a little, although he was not disposed to attach any importance to it, but
simply to satisfy a not-understood desire to do so, he had come around to
mention it to me, and it was this :—
That his dream was, that, notwithstanding his careful research of the
title of the property and that all encumbrances found had been removed,
there had been presented to him for payment a judgment obtained by Mr.
404 F. W. H. Myers.
R. M for an amount which he specified in dollars and cents. I remarked
to him that it was very remarkable indeed that that amount would vary very
little from what a liability would have been to Mr. M had it not been
paid , and had drawn interest to that date. I referred to data and computed
the interest and was, as said before, quite startled to find that there was no
difference between the figures mentioned by him and what I found the
liability to Mr. M would have been, had it not been paid off. I regret
very much that I did not make memorandum of this amount and the date, so
that it might have been given you explicitly and definitely, but did not, and
without knowing the date, I cannot give even approximately the amount
mentioned.
I told the Judge, however, that there was an inaccuracy in the dream,
and that was that Mr. M 's claim had never gone to judgment, nor had
there been any legal contention or contest about it ; but that it was a
liability that had been settled in the regular course of business at the proper
time.
Wb. H. Chaffe.
I must here leave for the present the study of knowledge of
things past or present received by telesthesia or by obscure telepathy,
—supernormal knowledge whose origin is not clearly traceable to
any definite external intelligence ;—and must pass on to the much
commoner type of messages, where knowledge of past or present (we
are not yet dealing with things future) is claimed to proceed from some
more or less definite disembodied intelligence. The cases which we
have already studied form an extension of the scope of a man's own
personal memory or observation ; those on which we now enter form
an extension of the scope of the things which he hears and reads, —and
from which he combines by selection and inference his main knowledge
of the Past.
My reader already knows how confused and contradictory these
soi-disant spirit messages generally are. For the most part, as I have
often urged, they may well be no more than externalised dreams,
whose source is wholly within the automatist's own intelligence.
This view I must now supplement by an endeavour to show that
even if we suppose these messages to come from outside ourselves (as I
hold that some of them certainly do), we need still feel no surprise at
their generally unsatisfactory character. Even on that hypothesis
they are, I think, very much what the analogies of earthly life would
lead us to expect.
Suppose that the whole mass of statements, or signs of assent or
denial, which are presented to any man during a day of common life
were simply written out continuously, with no indication of their
source beyond what their content supplies, we should then have a
jumble much like that which automatic messages present. Let us try
to compare the two scenes ; somewhat widening our ordinary categories
The Subliminal Self. 405
so as to allow for the unknown conditions of the world from whence
these messages are alleged to come.
In the course of a day, then, I hear various direct statements from
living persons, who speak as they believe at the moment, and whom I
can question on what they say. I also read many written statements,
whose writers I cannot question ; these statements representing what
their writers believed at a given moment in the past. The first of
these classes I may call direct statements ; the second, exuvial. They
> are exuvial inasmuch as they represent a past state of the generating
intelligence, as a snake's skin or a lobster's shell represents a past
conformation of the animal's organism. The need of this general term
to comprehend all statements detached from their authors,—no longer
supported by a life behind them which can hear and answer questions,—
will presently appear. And, thirdly, I both hear and read many
statements which neither now represent, nor ever represented, any
independent belief or truth. Such statements I may call parasitic,
since they are merely based upon some other mind's belief, or upon my
own belief which they reflect to me, perhaps with no wish to deceive.
Thus a child assents to any story which I tell him,—his object being not
to controvert but to understand ;—a dog shows sympathy with any
emotion which I choose to express ;—its impulse being merely to attain
companionship with a mind above its own. Nay, my own dreams also
are parasitic upon my waking day. They represent the best which
some fragment of my mind can effect ;—a petty whirlwind that lifts
the chaff from the floor of my mental granary.
Now my point is that whereas when we believe ourselves to be
dealing with an unseen world we desire, and instinctively expect, that
all messages which come to us shall be direct, the probability never
theless is that they will mainly be exuvial or parasitic.
If even the material world is so full as we find it of the exuvise of
past thoughts and emotions,—although such thoughts must be written
on paper, or spoken into phonographs, if the vibrations of brain or
larynx are not to wander irrecoverably away ; much more may a
k supersensory, a telepathic world accumulate the mental exuvie which
may form, so to say, the environment in which its new life proceeds.
What is likely to be there imaged and treasured, if not the Past of
Souls 1 Some such images may be fleeting as shadows, some persistent
as the imagined vortices of ether, or some may last a little longer than
others, as in a room tilled with smokers some smoke-rings float for a
few moments still discernible in the heavy air.
What if the haunting ghost be such a smoke-ring among the
disintegrated images of other occupants of the house ? What if some
isolated passionate statement, like that professing to come from the
Leicester murderess, {Proceedings, Vol. IX., p. 99), should represent
406 F. W. H. Myers.
the impress of some intense memory,—a record which still in some
sense coheres independently, and meets the sensitive's receptive power,
much as a particle of organic débris floats within the tentacles of a
sea-anemone?
This, then, may come, and nothing beyond it ; one message may
be given with ease and force ; after which there will be only silence,
or a confused parasitic rehandling of the facts already given.
And this brings me to my second category of subordinate and
untrustworthy communications,—those which in the actual world I
have called parasitic.
The causes which lead to such communications on earth seem likely
to be even more prevalent in a transcendental world. On this earth
the mere differences of bodily organisation which deprive the lower
animals of the power of speech prevent our direct contact with
minds much below our own. In a world, on the other hand, where
thought is directly communicated, it may well be that minds somewhat
on the level of the dog or the monkey may come into a closer relation
than here with the mind of man. And since the actual language in which
automatic messages are conveyed is almost always derived from our
own brains, there seems no security against our confusing messages
inspired by these lower intelligences with messages veritably coming
from our departed friends. Such messages may show the wish to
please of the friendly dog, or the wish to tease of the mischievous
monkey. Possibly they may be mere attempts to understand, to get
into communication with our human minds. Whatever the temper
which inspires them, they will be mere reflections or distortions of
what we already know. Or again, just as I have elsewhere urged with
regard to apparitions, so may these written messages also represent the
dreams of the dead. They may, that is to say, be as partial and
parasitic a product of a discarnate mind as our dreams are of minds
still incarnate. We have no right to assume that we are meeting the
full ray of the unseen intelligence,^-an intelligence which may be even
more liable to dispersion than is our own, and in traversing some
obscure medium to reach us may leave much of its light behind.
There is yet one more supposition which some of the feebler mani
festations suggest. There may be an intelligence which is impermanent
and almost impersonal, which is in some way generated from the mere
comflux of several incarnate minds bent in the same direction, or
possibly is even parasitic upon a single human intelligence, like the
dream which falls as a transient entity upon the sleeping mind of a
Homeric hero.
I have dwelt at length on all the possible sources of error in
retrocognitive messages, because it seems to me important both to
recognise their existence to the full, and also to perceive that they do
The Subliminal Self. 407
not explain all the messages alleged to come from the dead. I regard
the memories of departed spirits—the facts which they impart to us
from their own store—as constituting a real and most important
source of retrocognition. In the often-quoted case, for instance, of
Mr. Stainton Moses and Abraham Florentine, I hold that the
surviving spirit of Abraham Florentine did really communicate with
Mr. Moses, and that in this direction lie chances of knowledge which
we can hardly exaggerate. Many of the recent messages given
) through Mrs. Piper, I may add, have seemed to belong to this type.
But on all these messages from departed spirits I have written so
much already that there is no need for recapitulation here. I will add
one suggestion alone, to which much that has been recorded in this
paper seems obscurely to point. Even when we are dealing with true
retrocognitions involving scenes or histories in which men long
departed have played their part, we must not assume that such
knowledge must needs have come to us through the agency of some
definite and assignable discarnate mind. We cannot indeed prove that
they have not so come. We cannot demonstrate that any given scene
may not have been presented by some spirit to whom that scene was
once familiar. But for aught we know, the scene may come to us
without any such intervention. Its permanence in the Universe
cannot depend upon its relation to any finite mind. If one image
persists, then all images ; for the Omnipresent Mind includes them all.
ZSxri to Oia. Nothing for that Intelligence is "drowned in the deeps
of an infinite Past."
408 F. W. H. Myers.
Chapter IX.
The Relation of Supernormal Phenomena to Time.—Precognition.
2d). 'E86kfi Ti'r fioi yvvf) npoaehBoiicra KaXfI kiu eie£8^r, \evKa ifiaria f^ouao,
KaXf'crat p.e Kat tmfiv, 'Q 2alKparfr, 'Hfiarl kcv TpiTara *#tijv ipijiaiKov ocoio.
—nXaronvot Kpirav.
It is now time to make our long-delayed transition,—I will not say
from things past to things future,—but from things whose interest for
us lies within our backward gaze to things whose interest for us lies
within our forward gaze and as yet unrealised expectation. This
transition is both gradual and complicated ; and, just as many retro-
cognitions already quoted have had some element of the future in them,
so also among the precognitions with which we must now deal, there
will be many where what looks like knowledge of the future can be
analysed into an enlarged knowledge of what actually exists.
There are, indeed, certain phenomena— "monitions" as we term
them in these Proceedings—which in common parlance are often spoken
of as premonitions, and used as a type of knowledge of the future, where
it is nevertheless plain that all that is needed is a somewhat extended
perception of near facts. Mrs. Sidgwick has for this reason excluded
"Monitions" from her paper on "Premonitions"; but they must
needs find their place in the present more generalised discussion of the
Relation to Time of Supernormal Phenomena.
These monitions,—of which we have already printed a good many
instances,—range from incidents so trivial and momentary that it
would seem absurd to ascribe them to anything more dignified than a
barely subliminal stratum of the percipient's own consciousness, up to
important warnings which claim the authority of some departed but
still watchful friend.
At the lower end of this series come the obscure intimations which
restrain us from action on grounds which perhaps are only just
forgotten and still by effort recoverable. The chess player, returning
after various trains of calculation to the temptation of a specious move,
will dimly feel a sense of restraint ;—" I must not do tliat, though I
cannot recollect why." Mrs. Verrall (Proceedings, Vol. XL, p. 190)
has noted instances where this subliminal warning presents itself as a
physical hesitation ;—the hand refusing to execute an order which is
really unreasonable ;—and which is felt to be such so soon as some
trivial recent fact is remembered.
One step further, and we have an actual externalised hallucination
of touch checking the inconsiderate action. A lady throwing a handful
The Subliminal Self. 409
of envelopes into the fire feels, in one of our cases, a hand laid upon
her arm,—pauses in surprise,—and discovers that she is throwing
away with the envelopes a roll of banknotes which in a moment of
distraction she has placed among them. We cannot surely assume an
external agent here, without assuming also that it was some guardian
angel which checked Mrs. Verrall, in her closely similar experience,
from taking five envelopes from her stationery case when only four
were required.
* Let us take one step further, and we come to monitions based upon
a fact apparently not forgotten merely, but never known ; a fact lying
demonstrably beyond the normal sensory cognisance of the percipient.
A fact beyond his normal sensory cognisance, I say ; but obviously
before we assume that he has perceived that fact in a transcendental
or telassthetic fashion, we must make the fullest allowance for hyperes
thesia,—for an extension of the bodily senses which may include this
strange knowledge within its range. Nay more; our search for possible
hyperesthesia is bound to be much wider than any search which the
physiologist is likely thus far to have found worth his pains. His interest
has lain in definite measurable extensions of the higher senses, rather
than in obscure and novel sensations which led to no clear end. It is
for these last, on the other hand, that it is our special duty to search.
We have obscure and novel facts to explain, and before we confidently
assign them to psychical and transcendental cause?, we must try and
think of everything which the human body might conceivably discern
or discover.
I say " the body " rather than " the senses "; for we must go back
in our inquiry (though of course without expectation of immediate
success) to an ancestral condition far anterior to any senses which we
now know. We must go back to the first germ of life, and in place of
merely crediting it with " irritability," which is all the power of re
action which it can actually show us, we must credit it with all the
potentialities which the history of its descendants teaches us to infer
^ as already latent in it. We know into how wide a gamut of feeling
* the germ's vague internal sensation, its vague external sensation, have
diffused and specialised themselves in man. We dimly conjecture into
what other rays the spectrum of that dim primal gleam of conscious
ness has been fanned out in animals other than man. And we may
feel assured also,—though it be hard to realise the fact,—that all the
known or guessed sensations of men and animals are but a small
selection from the range of sensations potentially educible from the
vague panasthesia,—so to term it,—of the primal germ. Average
experience within average limits ;—that is all that our known senses
cover. If the stimulus be too weak, we are liable to mistake the sense
through which it comes to us ; if it be too strong, we are liable to feel
in
410 F. W. H. Myers.
a mere distress or bewilderment, not referred to any definite sense.
It is surely conceivable, then, that all our known sensibilities may
form merely a kind of bull's-eye;—the place where outer and inner
influences oftenest touch our central sensorium ;—while round this
bull's-eye all kinds of unclassified obscure sensations probably scatter.
It follows that when we have to explain very strange perceptions
we must be on the look out, not only for the hyperesthesia of known
senses, but also for that more generalised form of hyperesthesia which
may involve senses (peripheral or central) as yet incipient and unrecog- '
nised, although still depending on the material world,—a wider selection
from the potential pansesthesia of the primal germ. There may—there
must—be evolution still going on in us in relation to our material as
well as to our transcendental environment, and we must not claim
phenomena for the latter without taking account of the former as well.
Once more ; we must remember that the assumed new sensitivities,
physical and transcendental, may be linked together in ways quite
unknown to us. The synsesthesise which are only now beginning to be
noted between the ordinary senses ;—of which " coloured audition," or
sound-seeing, is the accepted type ;—may be carried yet further, and
may connect in unlooked-for ways man's responses to his physical and
to his transcendental environments. There will be nothing to surprise t
us if the same percipient should receive a number of subliminal
intimations, of which some are to be referred to hypersesthesia and some
to telesthesia, or to telepathy from the living or from the dead.1
I have said that hypersesthesia may be peripheral or central ; —that
is to say, that it may consist in the heightened perception of sensations
coming from outside our organism, or from within the brain. I will
begin with some cases of apparent telesthesia, or of apparent prevision,
which may possibly, though by no means certainly, be referable to an
extension of the external senses.
My first case shall be taken from the experience of the late Rev.
P. H. Newnham, known to readers of these Proceedings as a most
careful informant, and as agent in a long series of experiments which, in
my view, conclusively proved telepathy with his wife, Mrs. Newnham,
who still survives. He had throughout life many monitions, premonitory
dreams, &c. ;—but most of these unfortunately passed unrecorded at
the time ; and I mention them only to indicate that it would be difficult
to explain by hyperesthesia all his experiences. In the case which
1 One is so often asked how mediums are to be distinguished,—or, rather, one is
so often told that so-and-so " look9 like a medium,"—that it is just worth saying that
I at least can trace as yet no other quality whatever which seems to be habitually
found along with transcendental sensitivity ;—unless it be (and even this is hardly
more than a guess) a special tendency to be influenced by the electrical condition of
the atmosphere.
The Svhliminal Self. 411
follows it is possible that although he had never seen Chaonia he might
have had a general notion of its aspect when flying, and might
subconsciously have seen it settle on the oak.
P. 109. From the Rev. P. H. Newnham.
I have on many occasions, throughout the last 35 years at least, experi
enced the sensation of a soundless voice speaking words distinctly into my
ear from outside of me. Whenever this has been the case, the information
y or advice given has invariably proved correct.
I distinguish this phenomenon clearly from the ordinary forms of "pre
sentiment." This voice is distinctly something ab extra. In presentiments,
if certain words seem to come, thoy come from within, and are (so to speak)
spoken voicelessly by myself, just as in verbal reading to yourself.
I never pay any attention to these so-called "presentiments." I have
had plenty of them, and find them more often false than true.
But, when this voice comes, it never fails.
In July 1858 (I believe, hut it may have been June, 1857), I was
visiting friends at Tunbridge Wells, and went out one evening, entomolo-
gising. As I crossed a stile into a field, on my way to a neighbouring wood,
:he voice distinctly said in my right ear, " You'll find 'Chaonia' onthatoak."
(This was a very scarce moth, which I had never seen before, and which most
assuredly I had never consciously thought of seeing.) There were several
oaks in the field, but I intuitively walked up to one, straight to the off side
of it, and there was the moth indicated.
With this last case two others should be compared, where the
hypothesis of a subconscious hypersesthetic discernment of the bifid
fern or the four-leaved clover by ordinary eyesight is possibly
applicable.
P. 241.
From the " Annates des Sciences Psychiques," Mai-Juin, 1895.
By M. Adrien Guebhard, Professeur Agregé a la Faculte- de M^decine.
On the 30th May, 1893, I was on a geological excursion in the environs
V of Nice. After a very uneasy night, passed in the village of Contes, I set
-* out in a rather bad humour in the direction of Escarene by an old road,
where my disgust was heightened by seeing on my right a long mound of
absolutely no interest, either palseontological or stratigraphical. In vain I
tried to console myself by seeking in the crevices of the moist, dripping
stone, or under the tufts of green maidenhair, some rare snail-shell for a
collection belonging to my friends. I had already resigned myself to the
uninteresting walk of the ordinary tourist, when suddenly a flash of
recollection arrested my wandering attention —a memory dating from my old
passion of long ago for botany, revived for a short time in 1889 by the publi
cation of a work on the abnormal partitions of ferns, but certainly long since
abandoned. Promptly, and with all the intensity of an old longing never
satisfied, I conceived a great ambition for an object which, having been
412 F. W. H. Myers.
vainly sought, had almost passed into a myth, namely, the Aspleninm
Trichomanes, or Common Maiden-hair Spleenwort abnormally bifurcated,
which I had often seen mentioned in a book, but which I had never once,
during thirty years, been able to discover, in spite of the great abundance of
the normal species.
Hardly was this mental picture evoked, before my eyes, as if drawn by
the real image, were arrested by one amongst all the green tufts which
surrounded me, and amongst all the fronds which composed it, by one alone,
which, two yards off, had the exact appearance of a bifurcation.
Purely appearance, I said to myself, drawing near. Simply the juxta
position of two neighbouring fronds, which I have so often mistaken for it.
Sceptical even while gathering it, I could not believe my eyes. But the
evidence was undeniable, and when, much astonished but highly delighted, I
had plucked the fern, I said to myself half-aloud, as though uttering a
challenge, " Well, I only want now to find the Cet—" I had not finished my
sentence when my gaze, leaving the high wall on the right where it was still
mechanically searching, fell below the footpath on the left, at the foot of the
buttress, on a poor sickly plant of Ceternch Officinarum (Common Scale-Fern
or Scaly Spleenwort) crowded into the midst of the Aspleninm (Spleenworts)
as if dejected at finding itself in this damp shady corner instead of a crevice
in a dry and sunny wall, which is the usual abode of this species.
And this plant, which ordinarily I should never have dreamed of seeking
in such a spot, this fern of quite simple venation, edges very slightly divided,
and under surfaces all scaly, in fact with an appearance so opposed to the idea
of partition that (never having come across a specimen either in my youthful
researches, in the splendid collections of the Museum, or in any herbal or
rare book) I had concluded it to be non-existent—an impossible anomaly—
it was, I say, a frond of this fern that appeared before me to-day at my
bidding, as in Perrault's stories, as clearly bipartite as the Asplenium close
by had been.
Being at once led on, and covetously pushing my reasoning straight to the
principal conclusion of my old observations on the somewhat epidemic and
at the same time local character of these freaks of nature, I argued : " If I
have found one, and even two bifurcated fronds, certainly the third is not
far to seek." And in less time than it had taken to announce this decision,
without any hesitation, amongst all the attractive groups of fern, I dis
tinguished immediately one frond of maiden-hair shewing two clearly-marked
points.
I should never have made up my mind to put this incident in writing, at
the risk of occasioning the reader's sceptical smile, if the recurrence of the
same adventure twice in the course of this same year had not confirmed the
reality and demonstrated the importance of the psychological problem.
On the 8th August, 1893, at Lausanne (Switzerland) I had just accom
panied some friends returning to the country, whose gay conversation was
anything rather than botanical, and the last good-byes were hardly said,
when all at once, as I walked along the path we had taken a minute or two
earlier, there shot into my head, without rhyme or reason, the idea of a
divided maiden-hair, and immediately I put my hand on a frond, then further
on on a second, and again on another, always making my choice at once
The Subliminal Self. 413
without groping in the long green mantle of the great wall. Afterwards I
in vain retraced my steps to explore conscientiously, with attention, and at
length, the fifty yards of pathway ; there was nothing more, or I could see
no more.
Ten days later I was visiting near Chamb^ry with a gay and numerous
party the celebrated country house Charmettes, still alive with memories of
Jean Jacques Rousseau. As I crossed the threshold, the thanks of the care
taker still in my ears, and before my eyes the pictures of the Confessions, I
instinctively felt my gaze drawn towards the little wall of the terrace, where,
) at the first glance amongst several stunted tufts, which were afterwards to
furnish me with several similar specimens, I discovered an extremely curious
plant of maidenhair, such as I did not yet possess, with fronds not merely
bifurcated, but really ramified.
Was it this time a reminiscence of " Lettres sur la botanique " which had
given the suggestion ? Was it not, as well as the time before, simply an echo
at a relatively shorter distance of the exciting experience in the month of
May ? I do not think so, for with regard to the latter nothing of the sort
could be argued, and it seems, on the contrary, that it was precisely the
absence of all appreciable cause, the apparently complete spontaneity of the
first vision, to which was due the intensity of the second—a real second sight
which leads infallibly straight to the mark. That mark is evidently pre-
existent, of a real kind, and perhaps—one might defend this view !—is
itself by its simple presence, and by a sort of self-discharge at a distance,
the unsuspected and unperceived cause of the sudden internal revival
of a similar image, stored-up long ago ;—the spontaneous exteriorisation
of which, and the placing of it in coincidence with the corresponding object,
would constitute precisely the fact of the discovery—that is to say simply the
proof of the existence—of that object. Whatever may be the cause, it seems
certain that only the abruptness, the suddenness of the cerebral awakening
is capable of giving momentarily to the sensorial faculties that acuteness in
some sort prophetic, which automatically attracts the material object of the
mental evocation, not out of nothing, as a superstitious mind might believe,
but simply out of the relative obscurity in which it would have remained
under other circumstances.
No normal tension of the mind, no effort of will, no abilities exercised at
their best could attain to the results of these rapid moments of temporary
hyper-stimulation. Never, except on the three occasions I have recorded,
i have I been able to find the abnormal Asplenium, still less the abnormal
Ceterach, although every year, sooner or later, thousands of specimens have
passed before my eyes, amongst which I have often tried on solitary walks
in the most varied localities, with all the concentration of attention of which
I am capable, and the fullest use of a faculty of discovery developed by old
naturalistic habit, to discover the rare object, the eternal ambition of the
collector. I often found other things, but never that.
Is it not the same, to make a comparison, as that which happens in a
dream, when in preference to the subjects of long voluntary meditations
trivial daily incidents always crop up, which, hardly noticed at the moment,
and apparently no sooner occurring than forgotten, have none the less by the
unexpectedness, the lightning-like effect of their track across the daily
2 n
414 F. W. H. Myers.
monotony, made a more vivid if not a deeper impression on the brain than
all the subjects of ordinary preoccupation or voluntary reflection.
The cerebral problem is certainly curious, and deserves, based as it here
is on a group of precise facts, to be clearly stated at this time, when the
science of psychology, no longer admitting the supernatural, fears not to
encroach at times on the domain of the marvellous, in order that it may
restrict more and more that of the incomprehensible.
AdrIen GtTBBHard.
With regard to my above communication, in which you have been kindly
interested, you put the following questions to me :—
(1) Is it not possible that this discovery of abnormal ferns may have been
an effect of unconscious sight ?
(2) As to the fact of finding three of them in a small space, is it possible
that this monstrosity may be determined by certain local causes in such a
manner that in a very limited area many may occur, whilst for several
hundreds of yards not one may be met with 1
As to the second point, I can reply at once " Yes," for such was exactly
the conclusion I came to on my first study of this subject, confirmed by my
last find at Contes-les-Pins.
These abnormal growths are almost always in little groups, forming well-
defined islands as it were in the midst of normal plants, proving the external,
local and non-individual character of the original causal lesion, which might
be due, as I think, to some micro-organism, either vegetable or animal, a
parasite fungoid or gnawing insect.
But it is not at all the repetition of the discovery (which was logical and
foreseen), which affected me so strongly as to make me forget for a minute
the palpable and material object ; but rather the incredibly rapid succes
sion, I might almost say the instantaneous co-incidence, of the apparition
of each mental image and its objective realisation.
When one gives oneself up to any search whatever, even with the
great amount of practice and the good sight which I have, there is always a
time of visual groping like the tactile fumbling of the hand which seeks a
needle in a bottle of hay.
The time lost in hunting about is longer in proportion, as the object
sought is less common and less distinct from the mass of its surroundings.
And what more like a frond of double fern than two fronds, one lying
across the other ?
In vain ordinarily I might have exercised my keen sight on the
first part of the wall, as I did on the after part, as I have done hundreds of
times for years ; it is very probable I should have found nothing—since it
is also very probable that there was nothing.
How did it happen that it was just where there was something that my
attention was aroused ? How, too, did my eye go so quickly and directly to
the point, passing from right to left, from high to low at once, with such
certainty ?
Is it by a sort of attraction, which the real object has for the mental
image, previously itself evoked from its latent state by the near neighbour
hood of the reality which it expresses ?
The Subliminal Self. 415
Here is a question which I had already put in the course of my first
study of the subject, and which you repeat more definitely, in your first
question concerning unconscious sight. ^ q
Compare with this the following recent incident which occurred to
Dr. Hodgson shortly after he had been reading the above account.
P. 256. Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
l September Uth, 1895.
Yesterday morning (September 13th, 1895), just after breakfast, I was
strolling alone along one of the garden paths of Leckhampton House,
repeating aloud to myself the verses of a poem. I became temporarily
oblivious to my garden surroundings, and regained my consciousness of
them suddenly to find myself brought to a stand, in a stooping position,
gazing intently at a five-leaved clover. On careful examination I found
about a dozen specimens of five-leaved clover as well as several specimens of
four-leaved clover, all of which probably came from the same root. Several
years ago I was interested in getting extra-leaved clovers, but I have not for
years made any active search for them, though occasionally my conscious
attention, as I walked along, has been given to appearances of four-leaved
clover which proved on examination to be deceptive. The peculiarity of
yesterday's " find" was that I discovered myself, with a sort of shock,
standing still and stooping down, and afterwards realised that a five-leaved
clover was directly under my eyes. I plucked some of the specimens, and
showed them at once to Mr. and Mrs. Myers, and explained how I had
happened to find them. Clover plants were thickly clustered in the neigh
bourhood, but I failed on looking to find any other specimens. The incident
naturally suggests the arresting of my subliminal attention.
R. Hodgson.
Turning to the sense of hearing, we have several cases where an
intimation which the percipient regarded as supernormal may have
depended on subconscious interpretation of a slight sound. For
instance ;— two friends walking together along a street in a storm
just evade by sudden movements a falling mass of masonry. Each
* thinks that he has received some monition of the fall ;— each asserting
that he heard no noise whatever to warn him. Here is an instance
where subliminal perception may have been slightly quicker and
more delicate than supraliminal;—and may have warned them just
in time.
In the next case1 there may have been some subliminal hyperes
thesia of hearing which dimly warned Mr. Wyman of the approach of
the extra train.
1 For a somewhat similar case, possibly due to hyperesthesia of hearing, see
American Journal of Psychology, Vol. III., p. 435 (September, 1890).
2 h 2
416 F. W. H. Myers.
P. 166.
Mr. Wm. EL Wyman writes to the Editor of the Arena from
Dunkirk, N.Y., June 26tt, 1891.
Some years ago my brother was employed and had charge as conductor
and engineer of a working train on the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern
Railway, running between Buffalo and Erie, which passes through this city
(Dunkirk, N.Y.). I often went with him to the Grave Bank, where he had
his headquarters, and returned on his train with him. On one occasion I
was with him, and after the train of cars was loaded, we went together to
the telegraph office to see if there were any orders and to find out if the trains
were on time, as he had to keep out of the way of all regular trains. After
looking over the train reports and finding them all on time, we started for
Buffalo. As we approached near Westfield Station, running about 12 miles
per hour, and when within about one mile of a long curve in the line, my
brother all of a sudden shut off the steam, and quickly stepping over to the
fireman's side of the engine, he looked out of the cab window, and then to
the rear of his train to see if there was anything the matter with either. Not
discovering anything wrong, he stopped and put -on steam, but almost imme
diately again shut it off and gave the signal for breaks and stopped. After
inspecting the engine and train and finding nothing wrong, he seemed very
much excited, and for a short time he acted as if he did not know where he
was or what to do. I asked what was the matter. He replied that he did
not know, when, after looking at his watch and orders, he said that he felt
that there was some trouble on the line of the road. I suggested that he had
better run his train to the station and find out. He then ordered his flagman
with his flag to go ahead around the curve, which was just ahead of us, and
he would follow with the train. The flagman started and had just time to
flag an extra express train, with the General Superintendent and others on
board, coming full 40 [forty] miles per hour. The Superintendent enquired
what he was doing there, and if he did not receive orders to keep out of the
way of the extra. My brother told him that he had not received orders and
did not know of any extra train coming ; that we had both examined the
train reports before leaving the station. The train then backed to the station
where it was found that no orders had been given. The train dispatcher was
at once discharged from the road, and from that time to this both my brother
and myself are unable to account for his stopping the train as he did. I
consider it quite a mystery, and cannot give or find any intelligent reason
for it. Can you suggest any ?
The above is true and correct in every particular.
In subsequent letters to Dr. Hodgson Mr. Wyman writes :—
My brother died some three years ago.
The incident occurred about the year 1873.
I was not connected with the road or train at the time ; I was employed
on the New York, Lake Erie, and Western R. R., at Dunkirk. The flag
man is now, or was a short time ago, living in Denver, Colorado ; his state
ment can be obtained if desirable.
The Superintendent died in Germany about two years ago.
The Subliminal Self. 417
In a subsequent letter Mr. Wyman adds :—I traced Mr. James Conway,
[the flagman], to Colorado, and learned from his son that he died March 16th,
1888. [Letter sent herewith.]
Mrs. D. Wyman, widow of the percipient, writes :—
Jersey City, September 16th, 1893.
Mr. Hodgson,—Sir,—I received your letter asking me for statements in
regard to Mr. Wyman's experience. I don't think I could tell any of the
circumstances, I only recollect hearing him say he was singularly and deeply
impressed that something was wrong, and he obeyed the impulse and stopped
the train just in season of time to prevent an accident, and it left a deep
impression on his mind ever after, as he often spoke of it and wondered why
and what it was.—Yours respectfully,
L. A. Wyman.
Taking next the sense of rmell, we have elsewhere printed several
cases where monitions taking various forms have summoned the per
cipients to an incipient conflagration of which they felt sure that no
ordinary sensation could have warned them. There may often,
however, as in the next case, be some doubt whether some slight odour
may not have given a subliminal hint.
P. 162. Oro Blanco, Arizona,
March 7th, 1894.
Dr. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I give you herewith account of an
occurrence about two years ago. ... At the time I was at a mine
called Rosales, about twenty miles east of Carlo, Sonora, Mexico. I had
with me my assistant, and two other Americans. A Mexican family
occupied the building where we made our headquarters. The corral, or
enclosure for the horses of the party, was about 60 yards from the house,
and was fenced with posts and brushwood, with one entrauce. There were
no other houses within 200 yards.
We had been quite busy examining ore samples in the house, and finally,
late in the afternoon, to get a breath of fresh air and rest a little, I went to
the outside door and leaned up against the door frame lazily, thinking of
nothing in particular. The rest of our party were inside, busy with assay
samples. None of the Mexicans were in sight.
A voice, more to my inner hearing than outward, but to me perfectly
audible, said, "Go to the corral!" Now, if there is anything I am not
likely to do on a trip, it is to have anything to do with the care of the
horses or corral.
I looked toward the corral, saw nothing out of the way, and answered
the voice, perhaps not audibly, "What should I go to the corral for?"
and kept my position. In a few seconds it came again, " Go to the corral ! '
quite peremptonly. I went. I stepped quickly inside the corral (first time
I had been there). The ground was covered with several inches of dry grass
and hay, old fodder, etc., which, near one side, was on tire. I gave the
alarm, and by quick work we saved the corral and horses.
418 F. W. U. Myers.
Before I got inside the corral, I had neither seen nor smelt smoke, and
had not the slightest idea of anything wrong. None of our party or of the
Mexicans knew anything of what was going on till I gave the alarm.
C. W. Kempton. [Associate S.P.R.]
(In answer to an enquiry dated March 16th, 1894, Mr. Kempton
wrote : )
The date was p.m. of May 5th, 1892. I was using my professional
notebook that day, and made no record of this occurrence in it.
C. W. Kempton.
I was Mr. Kempton's assistant on the trip to Rosales Mine in May, 1892,
and remember his finding the fire in the corral. I do not remember if he
said anything to me about a voice warning him, at the time. 1 have a faint
idea that he did so.
Edward E. Noon.
Oro Blanco, April 2nd, 1894.
With this case, however, it is only fair to compare the following,
where the sense of smell can scarcely be supposed to have played a
part, although subliminal liearing may have operated in the first of the
two cases.
P. 134. Monition.
From a lady known to F. W. H. M., received June 3rd, 1890.
In the summer of 1888, I was living in the little mining camp of R ,
in the Rocky Mountains. Our house, a frame building, was some little
distance from any other, at the top of a steep hill ; the only disadvantage of
this being the additional difficulty of getting water, which was an expensive
commodity in R as the adjacent mines had drained most of the wells,
and we had either to carry it a long way, or buy it in barrels at 50 cents,
each.
The house contained six rooms, all opening one out of another, my own
room, with a dressing closet beyond, where my child slept, being at one
extremity, and the front porch, which overlooked the valley, at the other.
One evening, after my little girl was asleep, I lit a tiny night-lamp,
always left burning on a bracket in her room ; and, leaving all doors and
windows open, on account of the intense heat, went to sit in the front porch.
I may have sat there half an hour, when my attention was caught by a great
blazing light in the direction of the furthest houses. It appeared evident
that one at least had taken fire, and the difficulty of getting water, and the
hope that no children were in danger, flashed through my mind. While
watching the rapidly growing glare, I heard a faint crackling sound in my
own house. It would not have disturbed me at any other time, as I only
supposed that some smouldering piece of cedar in the kitchen stove had
blazed up. But, with the present thought of fire in my mind I went into
the kitchen to look, and, glancing through the open doors as I passed saw a
volume of flame and smoke pouring from the child's room into mine. Thank
God, it was still possible to rush through and save her, and I carried her
The Subliminal Self. 419
back in a blanket to prevent the scorch, for the ruom was only burning at
one end ; the side where the bed stood, though fearfully hot and suffocating,
was not yet on fire, and, thanks to the timely warning, the water left in the
barrels proved just enough to extinguish the flames before very much was
destroyed, though they were making headway terribly fast on the dry lumber.
After all was quiet I went back to the porch to look at that other burning
house, feeling so thankful that my child was safe, and wondering anxiously
if others were also. But all was dark, ami when I came to make inquiry
next day, nothing was known in R of any such fire. And had it not
been for my strange vision of it, which must have lasted fully 10 minutes, I
feel sure that my little girl would have been burned to death.
On the night of May 21st, 1890, I was staying at F , in England. I
always burned a nightlight in the bedroom I shared with my little girl. It
stood in a saucer of water upon a wooden corner bracket, and I had never
had any accident with it. At about a quarter to two I was waked suddenly,
and very much startled by hearing myself called not only the impression
but the actual sound of the voice ringing in my ears as I jumped up in bed.
The name called was an abbreviation of my own, not used by anyone in
England. When I found that all was quiet in the house, I lay down think
ing how strange it was that this particular form of my name, which I had
not heard for many months, should have been used. Half a minute later,
not only the paper case, but the grease, of which at that hour my nightlight
was full, caught fire, making a blaze which threatened the bracket, and
might have set fire to the wall also, but that, thanks to having been waked,
I was able to jump out of bed, and extinguish it directly.
Here, again, is an averted railway accident, where smell may
possibly have played some part.
P. 213.
The following letter was received by Dr. Hodgson in confirmation of an
account in a newspaper, concordant with Mr. Stewart's account given later.
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company,
August Uth, 1893, Garrett, Ind
Yours of August 10th received. Must say, the story as printed in many
of the newspapers of our country, regarding the train being saved by a pre
monition, or warning, given me, was true as printed. The fireman I then
had, since became an engineer, and was killed in an accident on a railroad in
Iowa two years since. The conductor who was with me at the time you refer
to is running passenger train on the Mackinaw road. I do not know his
address, but his father, a minister of the gospel, and his brother, Dr. Charles
Stewart, are residents of this city. A letter addressed to Mr. Joseph Stewart,
care of Dr. Charles Stewart, Garrett, Ind. , would reach my conductor.
Yes, sir, I have had an experience of similar nature since the occurrence
you refer to. Had a warning from the same source, and by obeying it I
saved what otherwise, without obeying the warning, must have been a most
dreadful accident, and must have resulted in the entire destruction of my
train, with the lives of many, if not all the persons on board. I am not a
420 F. W. H. Myers.
Spiritualist, do not believe in so-called Spiritualism, but do believe that the
living are often visited, often warned of danger, and often comforted in times
of affliction by the spirits of departed loved ones. I do not know how far
away the spirit world is from this, but I know that the spirits of departed
loved ones are often very near to me.
It may be in the near future I may relate to you the later experiences I
have had in similar things, living witnesses to which still live in this city.
In regard to the privacy of my name, I care not, as I am not ashamed of it
being seen any place that I put it. q w Moses.
Battle Creek, Mich., August 28th, 1893.
Richard Hodgson, Esq.,—Dear Sir,—Your request received, and will,
as far as memory serves, give a correct statement as to the incident referred to.
Train No. 2 of the B. and O. RR., due in Chicago at 6.20 a.m., Sunday, in
the month of August, 1883 (have forgotten exact date), was on time, running
at about 35 miles an hour. On approaching Salt Creek Trestle Work, about
40 miles east of Chicago, the engineer, Mr. C. W. Moses, felt that something
that he could not define compelled him to stop before attempting to cross
over. He applied the air and came to a full stop at the approach. I occu
pied front seat in smoker, it being the second car from engine. The time
was about 4.30 a.m.
I immediately went forward and joined the engineer, where we found 30
feet of the woodwork burned, the rails being held to place by charred
stringers. We went across, by climbing down and up the bank on the other
side, and woke up the watchman who was employed to look after the bridge,
who, on seeing us and the condition of things in general, took to his heels
and is running still, as far as I know.
I would say that in more than a score of years engaged in railroad work,
that was the most narrow escape I ever experienced ; for undoubtedly, with
a fall of thirty feet and the length of over a hundred, we would not only have
been disabled, but burned.
Now, you especially ask as to what impelled Mr. Moses in his action.
He only stated to me at the time that something especially pressing on him
told him he should stop, and he acted on the impulse. There had been fires
all along the side of track at other points, but he paid no attention to them.
In conclusion, I see some newspaper man got hold of the incident as late
as last June, and attempted to make Mr. Moses say that the spirit of a sainted
mother took hold of him. Well, Mr. Moses is an upright and truthful, old,
reliable engineer, and owing to his great advance in years at this late date
may have intimated as much, but nothing was said about the old lady at the
time ; that I vouch for.
Believing this a sufficient reply, will close. Should you wish anything
more specific, I am at your service.—Respectfully,
I. J. Stewart, Conductor C. J. and M. R. R.
[Formerly of the B. and O. R. R.]
In the following case again some subliminal sense of smell may be
conjectured.
The Subliminal Self. 421
V. 219.
Fifteen or sixteen years have elapsed since I had the following clair
voyant experience, but at the time I was much struck by it, and described
it minutely to several of my friends, so that I feel sure I can remember
the facts accurately. The circumstances were most prosaic, and I, a
matter-of-fact individual, with little interest and less faith in psychical
phenomena. I was about eighteen years of age, at home for my winter
holiday, but taking no interest in household matters, and I question
whether on that particular evening I knew that it had been the washing-
V day.
I had gone upstairs to look for a missing knitting needle, and was
returning to the parlour wondering whether I had dropped it there, when
suddenly I was arrested by a strange feeling, and saw before me a vision of
flames, and felt irresistibly impelled to go through a door at the end of the
passage and down some steps into the kitchen. There all was quiet, and I
came partially out of the trance-like state, and found myself thinking
" Why am I here ? I'll go upstairs." But again I saw the fire, and felt I
must go into the adjoining laundry. On opening the door, I was in no way
surprised to see just such a scene as had during the preceding moments been
distinctly before my mental vision. A jointed gas bracket had just fallen
on to a heap of dry sheets and towels, which were blazing almost to the
ceiling. With a little difficulty I extinguished the flames, and went to tell
the rest of the household what had occurred. I remember I had a strange
feeling in my head, as if I had just awaked out of an unnatural state.
No other person was near at the time, the washerwoman having gone
home, and the servants being upstairs. Nor could I even unconsciously
have smelled burning, as two doors were closed between, and the gas-pipe
had evidently fallen only a few moments before I entered, or the flames
would have spread further. The laundry was situated just under a wooden
staircase in the middle of a very dry house, so if the fire had been
undiscovered for even a few minutes, the consequences must have been
disastrous to the house.
Several members of the family remember the occurrence, and I have
still an old servant of the family who distinctly remembers it. I have
never had any recurrence of such a phenomenon, and was at the time much
surprised that I should have been the subject of an experience so strange
and so real.
M. H. Gkay.
Afarch 31st 1893 Andrew's Drive, Pollockshields, Glasgow.
The gentleman who sends this case writes that he has received orally
the confirmatory testimony of Jessie, the old servant, and encloses the
corroboratory statement of Mrs. Elizabeth White, stepmother of the per
cipient.
Mrs. Elizabeth White does not remember that she was told at the time,
of the Jirt part of the vision. She writes :—
My daughter, at home from school, not naturally domesticated, seldom
went near the kitchen—which was shut off from the hall by a swing-door.
On the night above mentioned, she came into the parlour looking so pale
422 F. W. H. Myers.
and agitated—being naturally nervous—that I at once asked what was the
matter, and when she could speak, she said, " Mamma, it is a wonder the
house was not on fire," and then told of having the strong impression that
she must go down to the laundry, that there was fire. She had to go
through two closed doors to get there, and was not aware that no one was
in the laundry at the time. Her promptitude in stamping out the fire of
the burning sheets no doubt saved the house, and accounted for her pallid
look on returning to the parlour. This occurred about fifteen years ago.
In the next case some warning may have been received from the
closer smell of slimy water ;—or perhaps from a vague difference in the
look of the darkness, or even in the resistance of the air.
Dr. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I send you an account of an incident in
which, I think, my life was saved by my obedience to an impulse arising
from nothing within my conscious knowledge or perception.
Some years ago, I landed in Stillwater, Minn., from a steamboat on
which I had come down the St. Croix river. The boat was a small, local
affair, and no conveyances came to meet it. I was, I believe, the only £
passenger on board when we reached Stillwater, and there I was left to
make my way alone to the hotel. We landed at about 9 f.m. of a starless
night, and in the shadow of a warehouse which cut off the lights of the town ;
the hour, the clouded sky, and the shadow of the warehouse, uniting to
make the dock extremely dark.
I had been in Stillwater once before, and had a general idea of the
topography of the town, although some years had passed since my previous
visit, and I am quite certain that I had never passed over this particular
locality.
As I left the boat I saw the lights of the bridge at some distance on my
left, and knowing the bridge to be at the foot of the principal street, on
which stood the hotel where I intended to put up, I naturally commenced to
walk along the dock in that direction. I had gone but a very short distance,
when I suddenly felt so strong an impulse to turn and go the other way that
I instantly obeyed. I saw nothing, heard nothing ; I did not even have an
impression of danger, though I did have a feeling that it must be in some
way better to turn.
I distinctly remember that my reason protested, and berated me for a
fool in taking a roundabout way to my destination when the straight way lay
before me, with the added prospect of losing myself in the railway yards,
with perhaps a ten-foot fence to climb. I laughed aloud, and articulated, or
at least, mentally formed the words, " You fool ! What are you doing this
for t " However, my impulse proved stronger than my reason. I persisted
in "going round Robin Hood's barn," reached my hotel, and there the
matter passed from my mind.
P. 177. 5,144, Madison Avenue, Hyde Park,
Chicago, October 30th, 1892.
The Subliminal Self. 423
The next day I casually came to the same place, and discovered that I
had turned within a few feet of a spot where the dock was cut away into an
incline for hauling freight up into the warehouse. This incline was so steep
that a person could have kept his footing on it only by great care. If I had
unexpectedly stepped down on to it in the darkness, I should certainly have
lost my footing, and should have slipped into the river ; and as I am but a
feeble swimmer under the most favourable circumstances, and was encum
bered with a fall overcoat and a rather heavy satchel, I should just as
certainly have been drowned.
The value of the incident lies in the fact for which you must take my
word, that I am not an impulsive and changeable person, but rather logical
and persistent. My action was entirely contrary to my nature, and the
unavailing protest of my reason against what appeared to me an inconsequent
and absurd proceeding convinces me either that I was influenced by some
intelligence entirely without, or that my "Subliminal Self" perceived and
acted upon what my " Supraliminal Self " could not see.
I have never had any other supernormal experiences.
Marshall Watt.
Tactile sensibility, again, must be carefully allowed for. The sense
of varying resistance in the air, to which I just now alluded, may reach
in some seeing persons, as well as in the blind, a high degree of acute-
ness. It is perhaps possible that even the interposition of a chair in a
narrow passage might thus make itself felt. But Mr. W. (a good
witness and well known to Dr. Hodgson) has had other experiences
where supernormal influences seemed plainly indicated. (Vol. VIII.,
p. 242.)
P. 159. State of New York, December 28th, 1893.
De. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—In compliance with your request to write
out an account of my chair experience, which I described to you when here,
I submit the following :—
My office consists of three rooms, and the library in the back one is
reached by passing through the full length of the other two. The middle
room is rather narrow, and well filled on both sides with furniture, leaving a
rather narrow passage through the room lengthwise, particularly at a point
about the middle of the room, where the passage is only three feet wide.
This passage was very naturally kept free from obstructions, but on the
occasion of which I am about to speak, some one, probably the janitor when
he came in to see to the fires soon after the office was closed for the day, had
placed a chair in this narrow passage, so that any one who should attempt to
pass through the room would be certain to fall over it, if dark. I think it
was about the last days of December, 1892. I recollect the days were very
short. I had left the office for the day with the passage free. I visit the office
occasionally evenings, but not often. On this occasion during the evening,
when it was very dark, I visited the office alone. 1 unlocked the outside
door, walked through the first room, stopping at the door that leads to the
second or middle room, to get a match from the safe hanging on the door
424 F. W. H. Myers.
casing with which to light a lamp in the library, where I wished to get some
thing. I was in a very great hurry, and walked very rapidly ; after taking
the match from the safe, I started at a very rapid pace to go through this
narrow passage and into the library It was very dark, none of the objects
in the room were visible, but as I was very familiar with the place, I did not
hesitate. I had proceeded six or eight feet in this rapid manner, when
suddenly I saw a bright, yellow light lighting up very plainly the back of the
chair which was in the passage. The light was confined to the chair, and at
the same time I stopped short. The stopping was quite involuntary on my
part. The light lasted for but a second, but it had shown me the chair
distinctly, especially the carving on the back of the chair.
Immediately it occurred to me to discover the origin of the light, if
possible, so, before proceeding to get a light or to leave the room, I approached
the chair again in a similar manner, but no light appeared, and I experienced
no check. I also looked very carefully for the origin of the light, but could
discover none. There was no light anywhere near, and even had there been,
I am at a loss to see how it could have shone into the centre of this room,
and the difficulty is still further increased by the fact that it shone only in
one place, and even there the light was of a somewhat different colour and
appearance from ordinary artificial light.
After satisfying myself that there was no light anywhere that could have
produced it, I went into the library and got a lamp and made an examination.
The chair was in the passage in the most dangerous part ; otherwise the
room was in its usual condition. I should also state that at one end of this
room there was a coal stove, with a fire in it of hard coal. It was burning
very low, and was ashed over. I examined it before I got a lamp, and I am
confident that no light of any kind proceeded from it.
As to my sudden stop. The stop and the light were simultaneous. I
hardly think the light unaided caused me to stop ; it undoubtedly prevented
me from starting after I had stopped. I fully believe I should have sustained
a heavy fall, but for the light and the stop. ^
P.S.—When I mention that the colour of the light appeared different, I
mean that it did not look as a light reflected from or shining from a distance
on to a spot would—it was more like looking directly at a light.
Here is a monition for which it is not easy to suggest any
hyperesthetic origin.
P. 258 (A BIO.)
Boston Transcript, August 17th, 1894.
To the Editor of the Transcript :—The following incident may interest
some of the readers of the Transcript. A few weeks ago I had occasion to
require the services of a dentist, and when I went to his office at the time
appointed I found him in a very excited state of mind, caused, he told me,
by a very strange occurrence. The office is a pleasant room facing the
Common on Tremont-street, and in one corner, the farthest from the windows,
the dentist had a small work-bench, partitioned off from the rest of the room,
and there he had his copper vessel which he used when vulcanising the rubber
The Subliminal Self. 425
for the setting of false teeth. He had been working at a set of teeth, and
was bending over the bench on which was the copper containing the rubber,
when he heard a voice calling in a quick and imperative manner these words :
" Run to the window, quick ! " " Run to the window, quick ! " twice repeated.
Without thinking from whom the voice could have come, he at once ran to
the window and looked out to the street below, when suddenly he heard a
tremendous report in his workroom, and looking round he saw the copper
vessel had exploded, and had been blown up through the plastering of the
room. He went into the workshop and found things in a most confused
i condition, the bench of two inches thickness was broken downwards by the
concussion, and everything in the room showed marks of the violence of the
explosion. The neighbouring tenants came rushing into the room to ascer
tain the cause of the loud report, and they were surprised at the dentist's
account of the transaction. As he was alone in the room at the time of the
accident, he is mystified at the warning that he received so opportunely.
The copper vessel had a safety valve which was supposed to open
automatically at a certain degree of pressure, but it appeared on investiga
tion after the explosion that it had become useless by reason of foulness,
therefore it did not work. These are the simple facts in the case, as told me
by the young man, but I cannot verify them except by stating that the
appearance of the room and the workshop substantiated his account. The
copper vulcaniser weighed about ten pounds and was imbedded in the ceiling,
for there was a pressure of about eighty pounds to the square inch at
the time of the explosion. There is little doubt that the dentist was saved
from being wounded, or perhaps killed, by the friendly warning, and it is
certainly a very interesting incident.
C. Hazen Brown.
Box 1813, Boston, August 16lh, 1894.
Boston, Mass., November 15th, 1894.
Mr. Hodgson,—Dear Sir, —Mr. C. Hazen Brown informs me that he
received a letter from you, relative to the warning that was given before the
explosion at my office, requesting the name of the dentist—or card. Please
find card, and
I remain, yours respectfully,
O. P. Smith, D.M.D.
150, Tremont-street, Room 6.
Boston, Mass., December 1st, 1894
Mr. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—Your communication of November 15th
was received. I have been so engaged that I have not had opportunity to
attend to that matter.
I should be pleased to have you call at my office on the 5th of the present
month, at 9.30 o'clock a.m., and will explain to you the use of the vulcaniser
and talk with you in regard to the explosion.—Yours respectfully,
O. F. Smith, D.M.D.
I called on December 5th and saw Dr. Smith, a coloured gentleman.
Intelligent witness. His only experience. Did not recognise the voice.
The marks of the explosion were still in the room. He confirmed the
account of Mr. Brown (known to me).—R.H.
426 F. W. H. Myers.
From these cases of possible hyperesthesia of the external senses
we may make our transition to a phenomenon of what may be termed
central hyperesthesia, a heightening of inner sensations to a point
where the future history of the organism can be guessed or divined with
unusual distinctness. This is virtually but another aspect of the
knowledge of intimate processes which self-suggestion has so often
shown. If the subliminal self can induce or arrest changes in the
organism, it may well be able also to foresee such changes when they
are approaching through natural causes. In whatever direction we
have seen suggestion operate, in that direction may we expect to see
organic prediction operate also. Thus, for instance, suggestion has
produced fainting, and also bleeding at the nose. We need not, then,
be surprised if we find, as already printed, Proceedings, Vol. VIII.,
p. 339, a warning of a fainting-fit conveyed to Lady Eardley, or, as
in the following case (unfortunately of remote date), a warning of
dangerous nose-bleeding.
P. 133. Monition. Auditory.
Communicated by Mr. D. Fraser Harris, B.Sc., Lond., who is acquainted
with the percipient, Mrs. Edwards. Mr. Fraser Harris says :—
Mrs. Edwards is a widow lady, and an American, but of English
extraction ; she describes herself as being not imaginative, not credulous,
not eccentric, not hysterical, and is not of a neurotic constitution.
This occurred in the year 1845. Mrs. E. was in good health, and had, at
this time, had none of the before-mentioned fevers, which came on between
the ages of 30 and 50.
Mrs. E. had slept well, and was in the act of getting up, when, apparently,
the quiet was broken in upon by an announcement being made as though
some one had come in at the bedroom door and said, in a loud voice, these
words : "To-day, at six o'clock, you will die." There was nothing more, but
these words seemed to resound throughout the room.
Mrs. E. resolved to tell no one of the announcement, and also not to
brood over it, if possible, at all. To accomplish this she went, in the course
of the afternoon, to the house of a married sister of hers, where there would
be sure to be something more or less stirring going on.
This had the effect of distracting her attention from the certainly very
distressing prophecy, and Mrs. E. had the benefit of her sister's society till
six o'clock began to be struck by the clock. As it commenced sounding
Mrs. E. said to herself, "There now, it's six o'clock already, and nothing has
happened : " but the statement was premature, for before the chime ceased
blood was gushing out of both nostrils in a copious stream. The alarm
was raised, and the whole household flocked round and applied the usual
remedies of cold keys, &c., but quite without success. This profuse and
alarming hemorrhage did not cease till bucketfuls of cold water were
poured on the head and down the spine. When the doctor arrived he
said a very large quantity of blood had been lost, and life only just saved
and no more.
The Subliminal Self. 427
As might be well expected, Mrs. E. was very weak for days after this
occurrence. Though this was the first in point of time of the more important
hallucinations of Mrs. E.'s life, it is, in certain respects, quite the most
extraordinary by reason of the striking sequel to and almost complete fulfi -
ment of the prophecy. D. F. H.
Mrs. Edwards adds :—
I certify that this report is correct. I8aBella S. Edwards.
Mrs. Edwards' sister, Mrs. Coleman, at whose house the hemorrhage
occurred, writes corroborating her sister's account. It is important to note
that the premonition, though not mentioned to any one, was in a sense acted
upon by the percipient.
It may be objected that in these cases there was more than a mere
foreknowledge, —there was a communication of the warning as though
by an external voice. But these externalised voices have been observed
in cases of self-suggestion also,—as in the often-quoted case of "Leonie."
The following narrative, from the article by Dr. Parsons already quoted,
adds an interesting variety, where the influence of opium seems not
only to have developed a monitory hallucination, but to have added
force to the self-suggestion involved.
P. 250. From Tfie Medical Brief. May, 1891.
Sixteen years ago, I was a little sick ; took half a grain of opium, and lay
down upon the bed. Soon as I began to feel the tranquilising effect of the
opium, I saw three men approaching me ; the one in front said : " You smoke
too much tobacco." I replied: "I know I do." He then said: "Why
don't you quit it ?" I answered by saying : " I have been thinking about it,
but I am afraid I can't." He extended his right arm, and, placing his fore
finger very near my face, gave it a few very significant shakes, said, in a very
impressive and emphatic manner : " You will never want to use tobacco any
more as long as you live." He continued, by saying : "You swear sometimes. ''
I answered : "Yes." He said : " Will you promise to quit?" I intended
to say yes, but just as I was about to utter the word yes, instantly a change
came over me, and I felt like I had been held under some unknown influence,
which was suddenly withdrawn or exhausted. I had been a constant
smoker for more than twenty years.
Since the occurrence of the above incident, I have not touched tobacco ;
have felt ever since like it would poison me, and I now feel like one draw at
the pipe would kill me instantly. My desire for tobacco was suddenly and
effectually torn out by the roots, but perhaps I shall never know just how
was done. D. J. Parsons, M. D.
Sweet Springs, Mo.
Even when the crisis predicted is death itself, we may still in some
cases suppose that the subliminal self has but drawn an inference
from its perception of a disease likely to be soon fatal. Thus in the
428 F. W. H. Myers.
following case heart-disease may have been far advanced, unknown
to Mr. Pratt's waking self.
P. 156.
The following paragraph was sent to Dr. Hodgson from some unknown
newspaper :—
Sees Himself Dead in a Dkeam.
Thomas Pratt Dies at Valparaiso After Having a RemarliaUe Vision.
Valparaiso, Ind., January 13tfi, [1894].
Special Telegram.
Thomas Pratt, an old resident of this city, was found dead in his bed this
morning. He was born in 1823 at Cleveland, Ohio, and was a veteran of
the civil war.
Pratt's store on College Hill has long been the meeting place of a half-
dozen friends and old-time comrades of the proprietor. Last night when his
friends came in, Mr. Pratt told a dream he had had the night previous. He
had dreamed that he was dead, yet he possessed the peculiar power of one in
a trance—to see all that went on about him though he was unable to move or
speak. He had noted the preparations for his burial, and he even named the
half-dozen friends who served as pallbearers. He also told of the funeral
services being held in the Memorial Hall, and of his ride to the cemetery,
and the lowering of his coffin into the grave. And when the first dirt was
thrown upon the box he awoke from the trance and called to his comrades,
and they drew him from the grave. The pallbearers of the dream will be
the pallbearers at his burial, Monday, which will be from the new Memorial
Hall.
January 15th, [1894].
Dr. Hodgson applied to the postmaster at Valparaiso and received the
following reply :—
Valparaiso, Ind., January 26th, 1894.
Mr. Pratt told his dream the day after it occurred and the day before he
died, to John C. Flint, George Herrington, W. S. Flint, and Albert Amos
and others. They would give you truthful statements in regard to it.
Mark L. Dickovbr, Assistant Postmaster.
In a subsequent letter Mr. Dickover says that a doctor, arriving shortly
after Mr. Pratt's death, ascribed it to heart-disease.
Further inquiries elicited the two letters which follow :—
Valparaiso, Ind., February Hh, 1894.
Richard Hodgson,— My Dear Sir,—Your communication of the 29th
ult., asking information of the dream which Thomas Pratt had concerning
his death, has been received.
On the night previous to the night on which he died, he said he dreamed
that he died at twelve o'clock.
During the dream he selected the pallbearers, and seemed to be con
scious of all proceedings of his funeral, until dirt was thrown on the coffin,
which suddenly aroused him.
William S. Flint.
The Subliminal Self. 429
Valparaiso, Ind., Fehnuiry 2nd, 1894.
Dear Sir,—Yours of the 29th received. As regards Mr. Thomas Pratt's
dream of January 11th : Mr. Pratt was a merchant here. I went in the
store in the morning of the 12th January. He related to me the circum
stance of his dream. He said that he died last night. I said, " Well,
you are alive yet. " Then he told me about his dream. He said that he
dreamt that he died and chose his pallbearers, and was taken to the
grave, and then lowered down. When they began to put the dirt on
the coffin he woke up. When I went down the next morning he was
1 dead. He died 3 a.m., on the 13th of January. The same pallbearers
officiated him to the grave.
I was the first one that he related his dream to. He laughed at it the
same day that he died, and said that he was good for forty years longer.
When he died he was 71 years old.
George Herrington.
Compare the case of Christopher Brooks, quoted by Mrs. Sidgwick,
Proceedings, Vol. V.f p. 291. The doctor there could find nothing
amiss ; yet must we not suppose that some heart-disease already
existed when the premonition came? At any rate the death
of a healthy and contented young man, at a predetermined day
and hour, merely on account of an impression received in a dream,—
this would be a result going far beyond any efficacy with which mere
unsupported suggestion has hitherto been credited.
Compare the following case, where a child, while apparently quite
well, feels the impression of approaching death, and ascribes it to his
dead brother's call.
P. 222. (A.B. 12.)
The following case was printed in the Religio-Philosophical Journal,
May 5th, 1894. Mr. B. B. Kingsbury, who contributed the case, states that
the informant is a member of the Presbyterian Church, and her husband
has confirmed her as to the statements of voices heard by the little boy calling
him. Mr. Kingsbury adds that both are worthy of the highest credit. The
father is somewhat of a "sensitive" and the mother has had two or three
^ clairvoyant experiences herself.
The statement just as it was given by the mother runs as follows :—
"Is there a life beyond the grave 1 Had I ever doubted that there is a
life beyond (which I never for a moment did), my doubt would have been
removed by what I call a vision. In 1883 I was the mother of two strong
healthy boys. The eldest was a bright boy of two years and seven months.
The other, a darling baby boy of eight months. August 6th, 1883, my baby
died. Ray, my little son, was then in perfect health. Every day after
baby's death (and I may safely say every hour in the day) he would say to
me, ' Mamma, baby calls Ray. ' He would often leave his play and come
running to me saying, ' Mamma, baby calls Ray all the time.' Every night
he would waken me out of my sleep and say, ' Mamma, baby calls Ray all
430 F. W. H. Myers.
the time. He wants Ray to come where he is ; you must not cry when Ray
goes, Mamma, you must not cry, for baby wants Ray.' One day I was
sweeping the sitting-room floor, and he came running as fast as he could
run, through the dining-room where stood the table with baby's high chair
(which Ray now used) at the side. I never saw him so excited, and he
grabbed my dress and pulled me to the dining-room door, jerked it open
saying, ' Oh, Mamma, Mamma, come quick ; baby is sitting in his high
chair.' As soon as he opened the door and looked at the chair he said, 'Oh,
Mamma, why didn't you hurry ; now he's gone ; he laughed at Ray when he
passed the chair ; Oh, he laughed at Ray so nice. Ray is going with baby,
but you must not cry, Mamma. ' Ray soon became very sick. Nursing and
medicine were of no avail. He died October 13th, 1883, two months and
seven days after baby's death. He was a child of high intelligence and
matured far beyond his years. Whether it is possible for the dead to
return, and whether my baby came back and was seen by his little brother
or not, we leave for others to judge."
Defiance, Ohio, December VAth, 1894.
Me. R. Hodgson, 5, Boylston Place, Boston, Mass.
Kind Sir,—Your letter of November 27th received and noted. In reply
will say that Mr. Kingsbury's account in the Religw-Philosophical Journal
for May 5th last of my little boy's clairvoyance shortly before his death, is
correct in every detail. When the child ran to me telling me the baby was
sitting in his chair at the table, there was no one in the house but tho
servant girl, little Ray and myself. I told the girl nothing about it and she
did not hear the child ; but as soon as my husband came to dinner I told
him. Afterthat we talked freely of the matter to several of our friends. Little
Ray knew nothing of death, we had never spoken of it to him in any way ;
the last time I took him to the baby's grave shortly before he was taken
sick we were sitting by the grave and I thought, " Oh ! if I could only take
baby up and look at it for just one minute, I would feel so glad." Instantly
Ray said to me, " Mamma, let us take baby up and look at it just one minute;
then we will feel better." Just as we were leaving the grave he smoothed
it with his little hand and said, " Ray is going to lie down and sleep right
here beside little brother, but you must not cry, mamma." He is now lying
just where he said he would.
P.S.—I wish to say that I have never known much of what is called
modern Spiritualism, but was born and reared a Presbyterian and still
belong to that church of which I am an active member. -p jj
February 27th, 1895.
Mr. R. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—In regard to B. B. Kingsbury's state
ment in the Religio-Philosophical Journal of May 5th, 1894, I can truly say
that my wife related it to me the day it occurred when I came to dinner.
I frequently heard our little boy tell his mamma that the baby called him
all the time.—Yours respectfully, W H H
Defiance, Ohio, February 27th, 1895.
R. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I can truly say that Mrs. and Mr. H. often
The Subliminal Self. 431
spoke to me of Ray seeing the baby iu the chair before he took sick. They
told me the next day after it happened.
Mrs. J. H. Shulteks,
116, Summit Street, Defiance, Ohio.
The hallucinations and spontaneous impressions of children,
though generally of poor quality as evidence, would well repay care
ful collection. Just as with " number-forms," " sound-hearing," and
the like, children probably experience more vividly and frequently the
various forms of sensory automatism which concern our present
researches.
Beside these cases we may place a few others where the date of
death has been foretold, or self-suggested, without any such strong or
depressing emotion as seemed obviously likely to affect the event.
P. 146. Prediction of death fulfilled.
The following is a case of a prediction of death, of which information
was sent to us before it was known that the death had occurred, and which
was fulfilled within a day of the time foretold.
The Rev. Aug. Glardon, M.A., writes to Professor Sidgwick :—
Tour-de-Pilz,
September Uth, 1893.
One of my aunts, Miss J. V., living at Vallorbe, in the Jura, and very ill
since April, predicted six weeks ago that she would leave her friends to
morrow, Friday, 15th September. If the event confirms her prediction I
shall let you know. I only thought to-day of advising you.—Yours truly,
Aug. Glardon.
The postmarks are—Tour-de-Pilz, 14/ix/93 ; Cambridge, Sep. 16, 93.
Professor Sidgwick received two days later another post-card, with post
marks—Tour-de-Pilz, 15/ix/93 ; Cambridge, Sep. 18, 93, as follows : —
Tour-de-Pilz, Vaud.
September Uth, 1893. 8 p.m.
Dear Sir,—I receive this moment, five hours after sending you my first
post-card, a letter from Vallorbe to inform me that my aunt, Miss Julie V.,
died this morning at five o'clock—" just at the end of the six weeks," says
my informant. From what I had been told, I thought the " six weeks"
Miss V. had spoken of were to end to-morrow. Whether I am right or
wrong, it remains a proved fact that my aunt announced the time of her
death six weeks beforehand, to a day. Aug. Glardon.
In answer to inquiries as to the cause of Miss V.'s death, Mr. Glardon
writes :—
Tour-de-Pilz.
September 29th, 1893.
Dear Sir,—In answer to your note of Saturday last, I shall state that
my aunt, Miss Julie V., was aged 78. She died of a disease of the liver, on
the Uth of the present month, after an illness of five months.
2 i 2
432 F. W. H. Myers.
Six weeks before her death she was taken from her house to the house of
her brother. It was on the 4th of August, and it was a few days after that,
being already half delirious, she said to her brother ; " I have come to you
for six weeks. "
During the last month of her life she was almost constantly half un
conscious, and never referred to what she had said.
When I went to see her, two days before her death, she did not recognise
me fully. It was then that her brother and sister-in-law told me that they
expected her to pass away on the 15th, explaining why. In fact, she died
the day before that. She was a woman of calm nerves and lymphatic
temperament.-Yours truly, Auo Glabdoh
I may place here an odd case where the knowledge of impending
death can hardly come from the decedent.
P. 137.
The following appeared in the Religio-Philosophkal Jounud for November
1st, 1890 :—
StateMent OP dE. SUddICk.
For some time past we have been holding spiritual seances, or circles,
regularly every Tuesday and Friday evening at our home in Cuba, Mo., and
have gotten and are getting many messages, truthful and otherwise, although
the untruthful ones are few comparatively and are generally so from known
causes, such as misunderstanding of question asked, inharmony in circle,
&c., &c. Most remarkable was a " Prophecy and its Fulfilment," a hurried
statement of which appeared in the Better Way of October 18th. Two
friends had called in, namely, Charles H. Cottnam, bookkeeper for the firm
of Newman and Jones, general merchants, and James E. Hollow, jun., of
the firm of Hollow and Son, dealers in stoves, hardware, and furniture, both
doing business at this place. Then, my wife and I sat around a small walnut
centre table, placing our hands on its top surface in the usual manner, and in
about ten or fifteen minutes the table began to move, indicating the presence
of our spirit friends, or some intelligence with the power to move it, and
answer questions intelligently, as we found by asking. The lamp was sitting
on a piano in the corner of the room, turned down so as to make a subdued
or mellow light, but not so low but that we could see what time it was by our
watches as we sat at the table, or jot down the communications as they were
spelled out.
Mr. Cottnam had a friend, Mr. Chris. Varis, a prominent hotel keeper of
St. James, Phelps County, Mo., and a former resident of this place. His
disease was a chronic affection of the throat. Mr. C. had called on him a few
days previous and found him very weak and sinking fast. He could take no
solid food, and all the nourishment he got was by painful swallowing a little
eggnog or milk. His attendant physician, Dr. Headlee, of St. James, told
Mr. Cottnam that he thought Mr. Varis could live but a few days at most,
and from his appearance Mr. Cottnam was of the same opinion. After many-
other questions were asked and answered, the table answering by tipping two
of its feet two or three inches off the floor, and then striking it again, once
The Subliminal Self. 433
for no, twice for don't know, and three times for yes. Mr. C. asked, "Do
you know my friend Chris. Varis, of St. James, Mo. ?" "Yes." "Is he
any better than when I was with him last?" "No." "Is he worse?"
"Yes." " Will I have time to get to him before he passes out if I take the
next train?" "Yes." "Will he live over to-morrow?" "Yes." "Do
you know when he will pass out?" "Yes." Then the table rocked back
and forth slowly, the feet striking the floor forty times, making forty distinct
raps, much to the surprise of all present, as we were expecting him to pass
out much sooner. We counted, and found that the time indicated would be
October 8th ; so to make sure we were right we asked, " Will he pass out on
October 8th?" "Yes." " In the forenoon ? " "Yes." " Will a telegram
be sent to me on the morning of the 8th to that effect 1" " Yes."
A night or two after the above described seance Mr. Cottnam sat at
another house with different sitters, and received the following confirmation
of the above. He says : " We had been sitting only a few minutes when the
table began to move. I asked, 'Is the spirit demonstrating a friend of mine?'
'Yes.' (Indicated by three distinct tips of the table.) ' Will you spell your
name ? ' ' Yes. ' The alphabet was called in the usual way, and the letters
signalled by tips spelled Ben Walker. 'Are you my friend, Ben Walker, of
St. Louis?' 'Yes.' 'I was not aware of your demise ; when did you pass
out ? ' Three distinct tips. ' Does that mean that it has been three days
since you passed out ? ' ' Yes. ' ' Is your body buried ? ' ' No. ' ' Will it be
buried to-morrow ? ' 'Yes.' ' Do you know my friend Chris. Varis ? ' 'Yes.'
' Will he pass out on October 8th?' 'Yes.' 'Are you sure of this ?' 'Yes.'"
Mr. Cottnam was not aware of the death of Mr. Walker, and rather
doubted the truth of the message about him. The Globe Democrat of the
next day, however, confirmed the truth of his death and stated that the
interment was deferred until his son arrived from a distant city.
The prediction about Mr. Varis became an open secret, and was talked of
freely through the town from the morning of August 30th until October 8th,
when a telegram came over the wires informing Mr. C. that Mr. Varis died
that morning at six o'clock.
I append a letter from Dr. Headlee, the physician who attended Mr.
Varis, which corroborates the account just given. I also send the signatures
of twelve of our best citizens in further confirmation, and the signatures of
the sitters. Many more names could be obtained, but I judge the following
to be sufficient.
Cuba, Mo. S- T' SuddICK' M-D-
Dear Doctor,—About a week previous to the death of Mr. Chris. Varis
I was in Cuba, and a friend was inquiring about him. I told him that on the
evening before I did not think he would survive the night, but on that
morning he had rallied a little, that the chances all were that he would not
last twenty-four hours. He then told me that he (Mr. V.) would live until
the eighth day of October, and that he would die on that day ; this he did,
dying at 6 a.m.
Mr. Varis was sick about seven or eight months and for the last three was
expected to die at any time.—Respectfully yours,
S. H. Headlbr.
St. James, Mo., October 18th, 1890.
434 F. W. H. Myers.
Cuba, Mo., October loth, 1890.
To all whom it may COnCekn :—This is to certify that we, the under
signed citizens of Cuba, Mo., did, prior to the death of Mr. Chris. Varis, of
St. James, Mo., which occurred on the morning of the 8th of October, 1890,
hear a prophecy to the effect that he would die on the morning of that day.
We heard that his death was foretold at a seance, at the house of Dr. S.
T. Suddick, in the town of Cuba, Mo., on the night of August the 29th, or
forty days prior to that event.
S. T. Suddick, M.D.
I received message for Cottnam October 8th, from St. James.
Chas. C. Kent.
Telegraph Operator at Cuba.
Jas. E. Hollow, jun., one of the circle of August 29th.
Longstreet Simpson, Clerk in Store.
T. P. Brickey, Proprietor, Cuba Hotel.
E. A. Evans, Real Estate Agent.
F. R. Hardesty, Druggist.
W. T. Hunter, Blacksmith.
C. H. Cottnam, one of the circle of August 29th.
Dr. V. L. Shelp, Dentist.
Dr. J. H. Martyn, Physician and Surgeon.
Geo. Askins, Hotel Clerk.
Mrs. Louise Farley Suddick, one of the circle of August 29th.
J. A. Rost, Shoemaker.
J. A. Caims, Clerk in Store.
B. F. Johnson, Notary Public.
The letter from which the following is an extract, and of which the
original was sent to Mr. Hodgson by Dr. Suddick, fixes the date of the
seance.
Cuba, Mo., Axtgitst 29th, 1890.
D. E. Perryman,
Bonne Terre, Mo.
Dear Friend,—
30th. We had a nice little circle last night, in our parlour, and good
phenomena, so far as table-tipping goes. Myself, wife, and two neighbours,
composed the circle. There were about a hundred questions asked, and all
were answered correctly, so far as we know.
One gentleman was requested to go to a sick friend, and was told the
number of days he would live, &c., &c.
S. T. Suddicr.
(This extract appeared in the Religio-Philosophical Journal.) Dr.
Suddick says that the letter was returned to him at his own request, and
writes :—.
You will find that the first seven or eight lines were written August 29th
and the remainder of the letter on the 30th, or part before and part after the
sitting.
Mrs. Suddick sends the following account of the sitting :—
The Subliminal Self. 435
Cuba, Mo., Nurember 9th, 1890.
Replying to your favour of the 5th inst., requesting my confirmation of
the "prophecy " of which my husband wrote, I can say that I was one of the
sitters ; the seance having taken place at our house. There were two other
sitters besides my husband (Dr. Suddick) and self, namely, J. E. Hollow,
jun., and C. H. Cottnam. The message was given in answer to questions
put by Mr. Cottnam concerning his friend Mr. Varis. He did not call the
name of the latter at the time of the sitting, but only spoke of him as '' my
friend," and I, for one, did not know at the time to whom he referred. (I
' think perhaps the other sitters did.) I heard casually the next day through a
neighbour lady that Mr. Varis, of St. James, was expected to die at any
time, and associating the two incidents, I concluded that he was the sick
friend of whose demise Mr. C. had been questioning the "spirits," and on
enquiring found that I had surmised correctly.
At the sitting, Mr. Cottnam asked a number of questions about his sick
friend, among which were, " Will he be alive when I arrive there V " Will
he die to-morrow?" "Will he die the day after ?" &c. After receiving
negative answers to the last two—and perhaps the question whether he
would live a week was asked,—I do not distinctly remember—he requested
the controlling power to rap once for every day that his friend would yet
live, and the table rapped forty times : each of the sitters counted the raps
as they were given distinctly by the table rising one side off the floor and
striking down again. On counting the forty days from that date we found
that the time of his death as prophesied would fall on the 8th of October.
(The date of the prophecy was August 29th.) Mr. C. asked if the 8th of
October was the day on which he would die, and the table rapped three
times, the conventional signal for "Yes." He then asked if the demise
would take place in daytime or at night ; in the forenoon or afternoon, etc.,
and received answers that it would be in the daytime, and in the forenoon.
At several other seances, held at the home of Mr. Brickey and other
places, these questions were again asked, and the answers repeated that Mr.
Varis would die on the morning of October 8th, as at the first sitting. Of
these dates I am perfectly confident.
It may, and it may not, be superfluous to add, that, unlike my husband,
I am not a confirmed believer in the spiritual origin of those phenomena
which we have from time to time witnessed, such as movements of the
; table by some unknown power ; intelligent answers to questions ; messages
given through the alphabet, etc., but have been undecided whether to
attribute them to telepathy, thought-transference, or some other unknown
mental or magnetic quality residing in the sitters themselves, or whether,
as so many believe, it is really through the direct agency of the disembodied.
Wishing your Society much success in its rational and most scientific way
of dealing with these occult problems,—I am, very truly,
Louise F. Suddicr.
Mr. Hodgson has also received letters from Mr. I. P. Brickey, Mr. E.
A. Evans, and Mr. J. A. Rost, confirming the authenticity of their testi
mony quoted above. Mr. Brickey states that it w as at his house that the
*&nce at which the prophecy was confirmed was held.
436 F. W. H. Myers.
Mr. Evans writes :—
Cuba, Mo., November 8th, 1890.
Touching the matter cited in yours of the 4th inst., I desire to say that
my signature subscribed to the published statement of Dr. Suddick, relative
to the prophesied death of Chris. Varis, of St. James, Mo., is authentic.
Further, in this connection I desire to say that I never attended a seance, as
it is called, I believe, in my life, have no experience in that line, and have
no personal knowledge upon which to base belief nor unbelief of Spiritual
ism. But I was told by parties that met at Dr. Suddick's residence, some
weeks before the demise of Chris. Varis, that by raps with, or on a table, I
do not know which, they were told that Varis would die in 40 days, or
October 8th, and he did die on the date as given. «
Eugene A. Evans.
There remained an important question to determine : whether Mr. Varis
had known of the prophecy, making it possible that it had brought about its
own fulfilment. The following letter and statement give the result of Dr.
Suddick's inquiries on this point :—
Cuba, Mo., December 23rd, 1890.
I received your recent letter several days ago, but thought it would
perhaps be more satisfactory to you and your Society for me to go and see
Mrs. Varis, widow of Mr. Chris. Varis, myself. So yesterday (Sunday) I
boarded the noon train, and on arriving found Mrs. Varis and her two
daughters, young ladies, very intelligent and clever people. On introducing
the subject, just a shade of vexation passed over Mrs. V.'s face, and she
made haste to say, "We are not Spiritualists, and knew nothing of the
prophecy until we saw it in the Crawford Mirror, at least two weeks after
Mr. Varis' death. I was very much vexed, as we believe nothing in such
foolishness. . . . "
I explained that the parties who had signed their names to the paper had
not intended it to appear m the local press. Mrs. V. said she had felt very
badly about having her husband's name bandied about in that way in a
newspaper, but when Mr. Cottnam explained the matter, and Dr. Headlee
said he knew of the prophecy, and that the morning of the 8th of October
had been specified as the time in which he should die, a week or more
before his death occurred, she felt that there must be some truth in it, as she
could not doubt Dr. Headlee.
"Mrs. Varis, did your husband know anything about the prophecy
before his death ? "
"No, indeed," she said, "none of us knew anything about it until two
weeks after his death."
"Might not Dr. Headlee have said something to him about it during one
of his visits, without your knowing it ? "
"Oh, dear no," she said, " I was always present at these visits, and know
no such talk occurred at any of them. No, I am positive Dr. Headlee never
mentioned it, and that Mr. V. never knew it."
I then wrote up the little memorandum enclosed, and she signed it, or
rather her daughter did, at her request, in my presence.
I then went out and found Dr. Headlee, and he said in answer to my
questions :—
The Subliminal Self. 437
" No, I know positively that Mr. V. knew nothing of the prophecy ; no
one in St. James knew anything of it but myself, and I did not want him
to find it out. " o m o
S. T. Suddicr.
To all whom rr may concern : - This is to certify that I am positive
that my husband knew nothing whatever of the prophecy of his death, made
at a Spiritual circle held at the home of Dr. S. T. Suddick, in Cuba, Mo., on
August 29th last. We did not hear of it for about two weeks after his
death. We are not Spiritualists. (Signod) Mm. A. Varis.
We may add that Spiritualistic seances (without professional mediums)
are very frequently held in Cuba, Mo., which is, we understand, a town of
some 550 inhabitants ; and that other prophecies have been made which
haTe come true, as the following letter written by Dr. Suddick to Colonel
Bundy, editor of the Religio-Philosophical Joifrnal (and received from
Colonel Bundy by Mr. Hodgson on October 28th, 1890), will show. They
are, however, decidedly less striking than the instance we have given, and it
would be difficult to estimate their evidential value without a precise state
ment of the number of prophecies that have not come true.
"We had a sitting," says Dr. Suddick, "about a month ago, spirits
stating that ' a woman would die in Cuba on October 20th,' but they would
not spell the name. Miss Anna Long died here that day.
" Parson Stillwell, a very old gentlemen, was quite feeble, and a few
nights ago at a circle some one asked how long he would live. The spirits
spelt out, ' He will die to-night. ' In the morning he was dead.
"The spirits kept parties in Cuba posted in the wheat market, noting all
the changes from to three or four days ahead, all this fall. Thousands have
been made here."
In the next case the death seems to have been due to natural
causes, which could not, one would think, have been foreseen from
however intimate a view of the subject's organism at the time when
the presentiment first appeared.
P. 148. 433, Harrison Street, Topeka, Kansas,
September 1st, 1893.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I have a painful duty to perform in
acquainting you with the sickness and death of my mother, Mrs. Enoch
Chase. My mother was taken sick on Saturday morning, July 29th, with
bilious fever. The fever, after a run of ten days, ceased and she seemed to
be improving rapidly. She continued improving, so much so that on Wed
nesday and Thursday, the 16th and 17th, she sat up a little, but on Friday
morning we noticed she seemed weak. A little later she had a sinking spell
from which she gradually passed into unconsciousness. After a great effort
we revived her, but from that time on she gave up entirely and failed rapidly
until Sunday evening at seven o'clock, when she passed away. Please notice
the Friday, Saturday and Sunday mentioned in her premonition, which
correspond with the last three days of her sickness, after the relapse took
place.
438 F. W. H. Myers.
We found the sealed envelope after her death in her box of private papers.
She has told us ever since my father's death, which occurred April 24th, 1888,
that she would only survive him five years. We did not pay the attention
to this that we now wish we had.
Mrs. S. J. Crawford.
[A sealed envelope, with inscription and contents as given below,
was found among Mrs. E. Chase's private papers after her
death.]
Inscription on Envelope.
To be opened after my death, if it takes place in or near 5 years after the
death of my husband, viz., April, 1888. Mother
Enclosure in Envelope.
Topeka, December 28th, 1891.
It has come to my mind this morning that perhaps I had better leave this
premonition in this shape.
Ever since the death of my husband, on the 24th of April, 1888, I have
felt that five (5) years is, or will be, the limit to me of life. There has been
no sudden expression in that way, but the knowledge has seemed to follow
me like the knowledge of any other fact, —say this is Friday, and I am
thinking of doing something in a day or two, I would just think, to-morrow
will be Saturday and the next will be Sunday, then I can't do it. The
thought always follows me, just quietly and naturally : Five years. Now,
if I shmdd live six years, I will destroy this, but if my premonition comes
true, I wish this sent to Mr. Richard Hodgson, 5, Boylston-place, Boston,
Mass., with particulars.
Send to Dr. Richard Hodgson, 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Mrs. E. Chase.
Re Mrs. Chase.
Baxter Springs, May 10th, 1894.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—You ask me my mother's age at
the time she made her prediction. She was about sixty-nine and a half years
old when she wrote it out. She was born on June 22nd, 1822, wrote out
her prediction December 28th, 1891, and died August 20th, 1893. I think
the fact came to her the very day of my father's death, April 24th, 1888.
My mother's friend, Mrs. Silas Rain, of Topeka, told me that my mother
said as much to her the night after my father's death. Mother talked to me
many times about it, but not so soon as she did to Mrs. Rain. Some weeks
must have passed before she mentioned it to me. I cannot remember when
I first heard her talk about it.
Isarelle M. Crawford.
(Mrs. S. J. Crawford,
433, Harrison Street, Topeka, Kan. )
Here is another case, where there may have been some subliminal
perception of danger to the child's health. The coincidence involved
is imperfect.
The Subliminal Self. 439
P. 157.
From a gentleman in Boston, known to Dr. Hodgson, who desires that
his name may not be published.
In the year 1872 I lived in the city of Pittsburgh, Pa. I had then four
children, two boys and two girls. The boys slept in one room, the girls in
another, and on the same floor was my own chamber. One night I had a
dream that I shall never forget, and it is as vivid to my mind to-day as at
the time of its occurrence.
I dreamed of being in a large, square room on the ground floor. Outside
the window was a hearse, and in it a coffin containing the body of my
younger son. Just as I turned away from the window I saw a man with the
body of my younger daughter in his arms, with her head hanging off his
shoulder, with her eyes wide open, staring at me. I said to the man,
"Don't take her, she ain't dead." He replied, "Yes, she is dead ; that's
the way they look when they die that death."
I awoke with a cold perspiration, arose, and with a light I visited the
rooms where my little ones slept. I examined their pulse, put my hand on
their heads, and found them to be apparently, in perfect health, and sleeping
the sweet sleep of childhood. I returned to my chamber and sat on the edge
of my bed, thinking of my dream, when my wife awoke. I told her of my
dream. It impressed me so that it was over an hour before I again went to
sleep.
The next morning my boy, whom I saw in the hearse, awoke in a high
fever and did not leave his bed for nearly six weeks. All through his sick
ness the dream was a great source of anxiety to myself and my wife. Good
medical attention and careful nursing at last restored him to health. All my
children are men and women grown, and from that day I have had no serious
sickness in my family.
Such a dream ! What was its significance ? Merely a coincidence 1 Or,
was it a warning to give the case all the care possible to save the child's life.
South Boston, July 25th, 1892.
Richard Hodgson, Esq.,—Dear Sir,—I cannot recall any other dream
of a similar nature, nor can I, as a rule, upon awakening, recall the details
of a dream that I had during the night, although I can recall the fact that
I made up vmy mind, at the time of the dream, that I would recall it.
Dreams do not often come to me, and this is the only one that to me had
any significance.
There was not much illness in P. at this time, and in fact, it was unusually
healthy. There was no child's death, at or near the time, that I had any
personal knowledge of. I enclose a note from my wife, as desired.
Mrs. C. confirms as follows : —
South Boston, July 20th, 1892.
R. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—The facts in relation to the dream that my
husband had during his residence in Pittsburg, Pa., are just as stated by
him. We talked them over at the time, and I shall always remember his
waking up and going into the sleeping rooms of our children, and his telling
me of his dream before he again went to sleep.
440 F. W. H. Myers.
In order to form an opinion on such cases as these, we shall have
to compare other narratives, where deaths have been predicted by
persons other than the decedents themselves. But before approaching
that topic, we must pause on a small group of cases which, if the
theory here advanced to explain them should contain any truth, form
an interesting link in our argument.
We have been reviewing evidence which tends to show that a
man's subliminal self may sometimes perceive his own approaching
death, and may transmit this knowledge to the empirical self,
sometimes by aid of a hallucination. Now we know that the
subliminal self may sometimes communicate to other persons know
ledge which it cannot or does not communicate to its own empirical
self. This is familar enough in hypnotic experiments, or in spon
taneous automatic script, which script may be (for instance) written in
a position turned away from the automatist, and may remain unknown
to him, although its content must have come from, or passed through,
his own deeper being. We know also that an agent has sometimes
succeeded in transmitting a phantasmal image of himself to a
percipient at a distance, without knowing whether he has, in fact, been,
successful or no.
It is natural, therefore, to ask whether there is anything to show-
that the subliminal self ever reveals the approach of death, not to its ,
own empirical self, but to other persons ;—showing, perhaps, by a
phantasmal image, the source from which the information comes.
To this question we have some ground for returning an affirmative
answer ;— although of course the greater the interval between appari
tion and death, the greater also is the plausibility of an explanation of
the coincidence as due to chance alone. There are various cases where
the- phantom of a person destined soon to die has been seen by a
percipient at a distance; nor does it seem that such an apparition
depends upon the decedent's own supraliminal effort. On the contrary,
it often appears while he is asleep or in a comatose condition. Such
cases are familiar to readers of Phantasms of the I.iving, where they
are classed among other apparitions " at a time of death or crisis,"—
the crisis being, of course, the agent's—perhaps only subliminal—
perception that death is imminent. It is not always clear by how-
many hours they precede death in one case, for example, (Journal,
December, 1885, and see Proceedings, Vol. IV., p. 307), the apparition
coincides with the onset of a rapidly fatal attack of diphtheria.
From that case to the following there is no very great step.
ooo. lgl Cornwall Terrace, N.W., November 20th, 1889.
Towards the end of March, 1878, in the dead of the night, while believing
myself to be awake, I thought the door at the head of my bed was opened
The Subliminal Self. 441
and a white figure passed along the side of the bed to the foot, where it faced
a\»ut and showed me it was covered head and all in a shroud. Then with
its hands it suddenly parted the shroud over the face, revealing between its
two hands the face of my sister, who was ill in another room. I exclaimed
her name, whereupon the figure vanished instantly. Next day (and certainly
on account of the shock given me by the above experience), I called in Sir
W. Jenner, who said my sister had not many days to live. [She died, in
fact, very soon afterwards.]
I was in good health, without any grief or anxiety. My sister was being
attended by our family doctor, who did not suspect anything serious, there
fore I had had no anxiety at all on her account, nor had she herself.
I have never, either before or after this, had such an experience.
(Signed) G. J. Romanes.
The impression made by this incident upon the late Dr. Romanes,
F.R.S., was, as he more than once told me, very deep ; nor was there,
he thought, any such anxiety in his mind at the time with regard to his
sister as could have predisposed him to this unique hallucination.
There were, I may add, other unpublished circumstances which
confirmed him in his view of the matter.
The following case seems pretty closely parallel.
L. 861. Ad Pn Borderland. Visual.
From Mr. J. H. Kennedy, through Professor Barrett.
Repeated appearances of an apparition, as in this experience, seem to be
very unusual.
[Dublin], July 20th, 1889.
On the night of the 10th, or rather morning of 11th February, 1884,
while sleeping on a bed formed by chairs in my dining-room, my wife having .
been confined the night previous, I was startled by a most remarkable
vision.
My cousin, Miss Amy Flint, passed by the side of my bed several times
from the foot, disappearing at the head, and carrying in her hand, with her
arm stretched out, a virgin's lamp. After she had passed several times 1
started up in bed, the thought having struck me that my wife had either
passed away or had become seriously ill. I sat up in the bed in a state of
fear and anxiety, not knowing what to do, fearing if I went up to the
bedroom I might startle my wife and perhaps cause her death, and reasoning
to myself that if anything was wrong the nurse would certainly let me know.
During all this time the figure continued to pass and repass with a solemn,
steady tread. Having watched and listened for some time, my cousin ceased
to pass. I lay down, fell asleep, and thought no more of it, excepting to go
up and inquire about my wife and child early that morning. They were both
doing well, so I dismissed the thing from my mind, till about 10 o'clock, when
my cousin's brother called to say his sister had passed away just at the time
of my vision. In consequence of this extraordinary occurrencB I had the
infant called after her, Amy.
442 F. W. H. Myers.
I may say my cousin had been for a long time in consumption, but the day
previous appeared much better, went out by herself in good spirits and visited
my sisters- J. H. Kennedy.
Mr. Kennedy does not seem to have mentioned his vision to anyone before
he heard of his cousin's death, and his aunt, to whom he mentioned it some
weeks afterwards, is dead.
He writes later to correct the date given in his first account, saying that
his daughter Amy was born on January 2nd, 1883, and that his cousin died a
few days later, on January 7th, and we have verified these two dates
independently by reference to the Register of Births and Deaths. The fact
of his daughter being named after his cousin in consequence of the occurrence,
as mentioned in his first letter, affords some independent evidence of the
correspondence in the dates of the apparition and the death. Note, however,
the disposition to exaggerate coincidences which this mistake illustrates.
Mr. Kennedy states that he has experienced no other hallucinations, but
he recently had a dream of a distressing kind, which made a good deal of
impression on him, and which there is some reason to think was telepathic.
In an interview with Professor Barrett he also related an experience which
occurred to his mother. This was a veridical vision or dream of the
sudden death of a friend, and is of interest as being an instance tending to
show a hereditary faculty of " second-sight."
The following case, again, is of the same type. The informant is
known to me ; her father was a very distinguished public man.
P. 307.
Prom the Hon. Mrs. M , A. Adjutant General's House, Royal Barracks,
Dublin. 1884.
My sister was in the habit of getting up at 5 a.m. and of going to my
father's room (who was not well at the time) to give him tea, and then
reading to him until about 7. I asked her one day if she would call me
sometimes, that I should like to get up at 5. She refused, saying she
thought " I did quite enough in the day and had better be in bed." The
next morning, however, Thursday, to my surprise I awoke and saw her
standing at the foot of my bed, looking very bright indeed, and I fancied in a
white dressing-gown. The curtains were drawn over the windows and the
light seemed somehow only to strike her figure. She said, "Remember I
have called you, it is 5 o'clock, and now I am going away ; I am going away,
remember. " I fell asleep and did not wake until eight. At breakfast I said
to my sister, "So you did come and call me after all!" She looked
astonished and said, " No, I did not. " I said, "Do you mean that you did
not come at 5 o'clock and say ' Remember I have called you, and now I
am going away "t " " No, " she said, " I never came near your room." She,
however, questioned me in rather an agitated way, and to my surprise said,
"I don't like those sort of dreams." I never heard her say anything of the
sort before, and was rather surprised at her thinking twice about it.
The next day, Friday, having been in perfect health and spirits up to that
morning, she was taken ill whilst sitting by my father's side, at about t>
The Subliminal Self. 443
o'clock, and she died at 5 o'clock the day week, Thursday, of my dream or
vision ; and a curious coincidence was that she had on a white muslin
dressing-gown in which she had sat up during part of the night. I do not
recollect that during the fluctuation of this short illness, from which at first
no danger was apprehended, this strange incident occurred to my memory,
but as the clock struck 5 on that sad morning I remembered.
There is another dream connected with that sad short illness.
My father, the second night before my sister was taken ill, dreamed that
he asked her to go on with the "Life of Charles James Fox," the second
I volume of which was not then in the house. He dreamed that she said, "Oh
there is no more for me to read, that is the end," and she held up the volume
she had read to him, open at the last page, across the half of which he saw
printed in very large black, thick letters, filling the page quite across,
THE END.
He said it gave him a sort of shock which awoke him, and he still felt a
painful shock, he could not say why, when he awoke and remembered it.
And yet he was half amused at feeling it a shock or remembering it at all.
He, however, did not mention it that day, because he, being ill, thought
my mother might not like it. The day my sister died he told us. The
strange thing was that it was the same night, or rather morning, and about
the same time that I thought I saw her : for soon after he awoke he saw her
come in with his tea, but did not, I believe, tell her the dream.
It was strange that she finished that book, and that it was the last time
i she ever read to him, and that that night was the end of one phase of family
life in many ways. My father never recovered her death, and everything
changed soon after.
My father was the late Field-Marshal , and, as anyone will know, not
a man likely to think of dreams in general, and up to the day of his death
was in intellect and faculties like a man of 30. [Field-Marshal Lord S. died
in 1863.]
From this case, again, there is but one step to the next,—which
involves prevision of a death more sudden and unexpected. This case,
which comes from a lady who does not wish her name to be printed, is
remote in date ; but the danger of illusion of memory is perhaps less
in a witness before the fact other than the percipient than it would
^ have been in a remote case testified to by the percipient himself. One
is hardly likely to imagine, without foundation, that one has been told
by two persons of a special incident affecting both of them, before it
occurred. On the other hand, the hearing one's name called is a
common form of subjective illusion.
P. 637.
The late Colonel M., of the Militia, resided at S. I was companion to
bis wife for many years, travelled with them into various countries on the
Continent, and altogether was with her more than 30 years. At the time
when I went to them Mr. M. 's elder brother, Thomas, was a captain in the
Militia where Mr. M. was an officer, and the regiment remained at B. for
444 F. W. H. Myers.
12 months. B. is six miles from S. and Mr. M. used to come home every
evening. One cold evening in the month of March, in the year 1855, Mr. and
Mrs. M. sat reading for a while over a fire in the bedroom before going to
bed. At 11 o'clock they were startled by hearing the brother call aloud
"Will" on the stairhead, the name by which he was accustomed to call
Mr. M. Both heard the voice, and Mr. M. rushed to the stairhead
exclaiming, "Whatever brings you here?" he having left him at B. and
supposing him to be there. There was no one to be seen. When I went to
them in the morning they told me immediately of what had occurred. They
had been very much disturbed by it through the night. During the day
Mr. M. rejoined his regiment at B. as usual. His brother Thomas was
there still and apparently well. But in the evening about six o'clock, when
the exercises of the day were over, he was standing in the street with him
when he suddenly dropped down dead. From frequent references to the
subject in after years I know that Colonel and Mrs. M. were firmly convinced
that the voice they heard was a reality, and that it was an intimation of the
impending death of Captain Thomas. The fact that they told me of it in the
morning, when the captain was still well and likely to live, shows that it
could not be an imaginary thing on their part, the result of apprehension
respecting him. Colonel M. and his wife were among the most excellent
people I ever knew, and 1 remained at the Hall till the grave had closed
first over him and then, nearly 15 years afterwards, over her.
October 21st, 1889. E. W.
The next case presents an element of reciprocity, which of course
adds to its evidential value.
P 256.
Mrs. Tabour writes to Dr. Hodgson :—
2718, Chicago-avenue, Minneapolis, Minn.
May 8th, 1895.
I have recently learned of a case of remarkable appearance before death,
or rather a short time previous to death. A man ill with consumption
appeared to a lady (a friend of mine and also a friend of his) in a perfectly
natural manner, properly clothed, although he was ill in bed at the time, and
was found upon investigation to have been asleep at the time of the
appearance. Now, the reason why they were able to establish the above
fact so accurately was that the man related to his wife, directly upon awaking,
that he had dreamed of this lady in the most vivid manner, and described
her appearance, and the position of the furniture in her rooms. The two
families were about one day's journey apart, by rail. The man died about a
fortnight later. These people are willing to give dates and names, and if you
will have your secretary prepare a list of such questions as you may want
answered, and forward to me, I will get all information possible. I think it
may be well to see to the matter while I am here.—Very sincerely yours,
Josie L. Fowler Tarour.
Mrs. Tabour adds : —
Mrs. Shagren is a woman of strong clairvoyant powers. All the parties
are of Swedish birth, and of unusual intelligence. At the time of this
The Subliminal Self. 445
appearance, Mrs. Shagren was about thirty-one. Occurred over ten years
ago. No appearance at time of death.
Statement of Mrs. Shagren Regarding Appearance of
Mr. Hendrickson.
This happened one day after I had finished my morning's work, housework.
It was about ten o'clock. I stood before the mirror doing my hair, when I
suddenly saw him [Mr. Hendrickson], coming from behind, as if approaching on
tip-toe. His hands were outstretched, and I had an impression that he would
) place them on my shoulders ; I could even hear his last step, like the squeak of
a boot, as he put his foot down. I turned in surprise, and faced him,
consequently seeing him out of the glass and in the glass. As I turned I
exclaimed, ' ' Is that you ? " At least I felt that I said that, but as I spoke
he vanished. He was perfectly natural in appearance, and fully dressed,
just as I had always seen him.
In the afternoon of the same day, which I know was April 24th, 1884, as
I was passing from the room in which I had seen him in the morning,going
through a small hall-way, I heard steps from behind. Turned and saw him
again, dressed as in the morning, and again as I turned toward him he
vanished.
The impression of seeing him was not so strong as in the morning.
The next day, a young lady friend of mine, and also a friend of Mr.
Hendrickson's family came to visit me, and knowing of her friendship with
Mr. Hendrickson I asked her if she knew anything of the family, or where
they were living, as I had heard nothing from them for about four years, I
having been south during that time, and they in the meantime having left the
city.
I asked if she knew if Mr. Hendrickson was still living, as I knew he had
consumption. She replied that he was living the last time she had heard from
them. And then I said " I saw him yesterday morning."
My friend was not surprised, and regarded the appearance as a warning of
death. To my statement she said, "I would not be surprised, as I received
a letter from his wife saying he had a hemorrhage of the lungs.1 Let us
write,"she continued, "and find out if he is living or dead." Then we wrote
we both felt uneasy and 1 told of seeing him. In a few days we received a
reply saying that he was not dead, but the doctors had said he could not live,
and then [Mrs. H.] related his experience of seeing me in a dream, while asleep
on the morning he had appeared to me. Although he had never been in
the house he described my room, and said to his wife, when speaking of his
dream, "she looked stouter than she used to," which was true, as I had
grown much stouter in the four years since they had seen me.
Mrs. Hendrickson and myself were friends from childhood. I had only
known Mr. Hendrickson since his marriage. We were just good friends.
Mr. Hendrickson once told his wife that I had appeared to him. That was
long before my experience of seeing him.
1 Hemorrhage of the lungs has been associated with psychical manifestations
oftener than from the relative frequency of that mode of death would seem ante
cedently probable.
2 K
446 F. W. H. Myers.
Mrs. Hendrickson has re-married, and is now Mrs. Erickson of Beresford,
South Dakota. (Signed) [Mrs.] C. M. Shagren.
708, South 6 Street.
Beresford, S.D., May 27th, 1895.
Mrs. C. M. Shagren, —Dear Friend,—I received your welcome letter*
few days ago and will now answer it. It was in the morning of April 24th.
1884, when Mr. Hendrickson awoke and said he had been dreaming of you.
I said "I'll mark this down and see if it means something." He slept longer
that morning than he used to do, and in five days we had a letter from you
and you said you had seen him in your room that morning and you thought
something would happen to him before long. He was dressed in his night
clothes at the time. On the 20th of May he died. I wrote to Dora, but I do
not remember what I did write or when it was. It was before he died,
anyway. I had not heard from you since you went to Tennessee until this
time. I believe you said in your letter that you got my address from
Dora- , , , , Mrs. F. Erickson.
Beresford, S. Dak.
Box 156.
From private letter written by Miss Dora Edenoff, of Chicago, June 14th,
1895, to Mrs. Shagren.
I have been trying to think, but cannot remember what you said about
Mr. Hendrickson. It does seem that you did tell me that you had seen him
in your room, but I cannot remember any more.—Your friend, Dora.
In reply to Dr. Hodgson's question how Mrs. Shagren remembered that
the date was April 24th, 1884, Mrs. Tabour adds :—
There are many reasons why Mrs. Shagren remembered that date. First
because of the young lady, who came from another city, and was on her way
to Europe, and other facts which I might tell you if necessary. I looked
into it pretty carefully as I am rather a doubter myself. . . .
In the case next quoted the phantasm indicates not death precisely,
but an impending condition of decay.
P. 251.
[The following statement comes from a lady known to me, who has also
described the incident to me orally. Owing to the painful nature of the
incident, the writer does not wish to ask her mother for the narrative which
she sent to her at the time. It is of course possible that she may have
sub-consciously noted indications of impending decay.]
In the autumn of 1892 I was in Paris, staying with a near relative of
mine, of whom I am very fond, and who was a most distinguished and clever
man in his profession, that of a lawyer.
He had not been quite himself for some weeks and had complained in his
letters to me (I was in England at the time) of feeling nervous and unfit for
work, in fact run down. As his letters made me feel uneasy, I wrote and
offered a visit, saying a change to Paris would be beneficial to me, and took
up my abode in his pretty aiiparkment, near the Boulevard Haussmann.
The Subliminal Self. 447
My relative is a bachelor, and has one servant, a valet, who does not
sleep in the appartement, but, according to Paris custom, has a room on
the 5ieme ; therefore we two were alone in the house at night. My room was
at one end of a passage, and his at the other, several rooms intervening.
A few days after my arrival, I received a budget of important papers to
read, and a request to translate into English an article out of a French
medical paper. Not having had time to do this all day, I postponed the
translation till after my relative had gone to bed, as he generally retired
early. As it was a chilly night, I thought I would take the lamp into my room,
and work out the translation after I was in bed. I read several letters first,
and then started on my task, aided by a dictionary, as the French technical
terms staggered me rather, now and then. This is to show you my mind
was fully occupied, and that not only was I wide awake but that I was not
in any way brooding on my relative's nervous state, nor indeed was I thinking
of him. As I was writing most energetically, I saw, as one can see without
raising one's eyes, one of the doors of my room slowly open, and, as I
imagined it could only be my relative, who was restless, and was coming in
to have a chat, I said, without even troubling to look up " Come in, I'm not
asleep." Receiving no answer, I looked up, and saw a most awful sight. (I
must tell you my relative was a singularly handsome man, very tall, and an
intelligent, bright face.)
I saw, staggering into the room, a likeness of him, but in the last stage of
imbecility. He had shrunk down to half his height, his legs seemed semi-
paralysed, and unable to support his tottering emaciated form. His face was
drawn, all character and expression had left it, the lower jaw drooped, and
the eyes had no intelligence or recognition in them, nothing but a vacant,
hideous stare ! This thing,—for I can call it nothing else—staggered across
my room, looking round at me now and then, then made for the opposite
door, where it groped about aimlessly for the handle, and finally succeeded
in opening it, tumbled itself into the next room, and disappeared. I sat up
in bed frozen with horror, and gazed at this till it vanished, then jumped out
of bed, and ran along the passage into my relative's room. He was sound
asleep in bed, and there was no sign anywhere of the ghastly semblance of
himself that I had seen. I could not get to sleep, and this awful sight
haunted me for weeks. I naturally spoke of it to no one in Paris, but wrote
an account of it, much as I am doing now, to my mother, in England. Some
weeks later my relative, feeling his nerves no better, consulted an eminent
physician, and a specialist for nervous complaints. The doctor did not alarm
him, but told me privately he much feared that creeping paralysis and
softening of the brain would set in.
His diagnosis was only too correct ; at the present moment my poor
relative is in a private hospital ; he went steadily from bad to worse, all the
dreadful symptoms of his disease increased visibly and rapidly, and now
(autumn of 1895) he is very nearly like the ghastly vision I saw of him in
1892, and which, may be, was sent in some measure to prepare us for the
great sorrow in store for us all.
My relative was, at the time of this incident, about 43 years of age, and
as handsome, intelligent, and charming a man as one could wish to see—the
very last person for whom one could foresee such a fearful end.
2 k 2
448 F. W. H. Myers.
I give no names, or address, as he is still alive, and it would be unpleasant
for our family. Apart from that, the details are absolutely exact.
Here is another case of somewhat similar type, but where the
approaching end was even harder to foresee. The narrative was given
to Mr. Gurney.
P. 253. From Mrs. Chaproniere.
2, Hotham-villas, Putney.
April 14<fc, 1888.
I was in my bedroom being undressed by my maid, Mrs. Gregory, who
had been with me for 41 years, and she was unfastening my bracelet when I
saw, just behind her about two feet off, her exact resemblance. She was
then in perfect health. I said to her, " Why Mrs. Gregory, I see your
fetch." She smiled and said, "Really, ma'am," but was not in the least
alarmed. On the following Sunday, she was only poorly. I went for a doctor
at once, who said she was a little out of sorts. On Wednesday evening she
suddenly died. It was about the same time that her double had appeared to
me just a week before. This was about 15 years ago.
Sophie Chaproniere.
I have seen Mrs. Chaproniere, and questioned her about the case. She
told me that she had never had a hallucination of vision on any other occa
sion. The "double" was as distinct as the real person, and an exact
reproduction. The death was very sudden. Mrs. Gregory had been slightly
unwell for a couple of days before it took place, but was able to enjoy her
food, and no anxiety was felt on her account. A daughter of Mrs Chap
roniere states that she clearly remembers that her mother mentioned the
apparition at once, before the death. —E. G.
April 2ith, 1888.
But perhaps the most interesting case in this group is the following
which I give translated from the Annates des Sciences Psychiques, July-
August, 1891.
Here it seems certain that three persons of education and probity,
assembled together in no excitement of mind, did all of them see a
phantasmal figure, vaguely resembling a living person, ill in bed at
the time, perform a certain movement,—simple, indeed, but with no
obvious meaning. One of these persons afterwards saw the invalid
walk to the door in the same way, at a moment which had in his eyes
especial solemnity, as bringing the definite announcement of her
approaching death.
P. 210. Case of the Rue Jacoe.
Mlle L. IsnarcFs account.
One evening in January, 1878, I had an hallucination. My mother was
then living, and my brother, my sister, and myself lived with her. My
father had been dead a year and a half.
The Subliminal Self. 449
We were very anxious about my mother, who was seriously ill, and had
kept her bed for four months. This evening she had told us that she was
better, and we felt relieved and more hopeful.
It was about 8 o'clock, we were all with her trying to amuse her, and
talking of her recovery, when she looked at us with a smile and said, " I
want you all to dine together this evening; it is a long time since you did so,
and all on my account. (One of us always remained with her.) I shall
see you from here, and it will be like being with you." We did as she
wished.
The dining room communicated with my mother's room by folding glass
doors ; these were surrounded by curtains. The dining room was large, and
longer than it was broad; it was a cold, dull room, on account of its low ceiling,
its painted walls and high, dark panels. The only window looked upon a
dark court. Three other doors opened out of it, one into an antechamber,
another, nearly opposite, opened into a narrow passage leading to the front
rooms, the third opened into a sort of dressing closet. Entering the dining-
room from the ante-chamber, the window was close to the door on the
right ; the door of my mother's room was divided from the window by a
panel. In the evening the room brightened up a little, but it was always
dim in the corners.
We were just sitting down when the bell rang. It was a friend who had
come to enquire after our mother, and she asked him to dinner. At table I
had the bedroom door on my right, and the door of the corridor was exactly
opposite. M. Menon and my brother were at my left ; my sister, whose
seat was at my right, had gone to the the kitchen to prepare my mother's
drink.
We talked of indifferent matters ; my mother joined in the conversation,
and I could see her face, lighted by a little lamp at her side. She seemed
calm.
After a time she grew tired and asked us to shut her door. I only
pushed it to, and we continued talking, but less loudly. I can affirm that
we were all calm and unconcerned.
It was 9 o'clock, the night was quiet, the table was the only lighted spot
in the room, a faint light could be seen in my mother's room through the
anground glass doors.
All at once the wind seemed to rise and howl plaintively at the end of
the corridor. The corridor door, which is closed by a French handle, (bee de
cane), opened violently, the two glass leaves came together with a crash. I
looked up, astonished at the sudden gust amidst the calm. Then something
strange and inexplicable happened. A shadow, like the shadow of a
woman, stood at the entrance of my mother's room ; it drew away from the
curtains and glided slowly towards the corridor. I saw it vaguely at first,
but more clearly when its profile was thrown up by the wall. When it
arrived at the angle formed by the wall at that place, it left the wall,
advanced into the room, and again turned towards the corridor. At that
moment it stood out clearly on the white background of the open door, it
looked to me perfect and distinct. It was the shadow of a woman, more
compact than transparent, and yet—if I may so express myself—it was
diaphanous as some clouds are.
-±50 F. W. H. Myers.
It was little, slightly bent, its head was bent, and its arms grossed over
its breast ; a sort of resignation and reserve was expressed in its attitude.
The head and shoulders were covered by a sort of ashy grey veil, the face
was quite hidden, it might have been a nun. It entered the corridor and
disappeared into the darkness. A gust of wind, less violent than the first,
closed the door after it ; my mother's door had also closed noiselessly. The
phenomenon lasted some seconds. I had thought of my mother directly,
not that there was any particular resemblance, but I had felt some
mysterious connection between her and the apparition. I cannot analyse
what I felt. It was not fear, it was astonishment mixed with a kind of
superstitious alarm. I felt an immense sadness, my heart contracted, and
I had a painful presentiment. I thought " My mother will die." I looked
at my brother anxiously, his face told me that he too had seen. M. Menon
seemed ill at ease. I rose to go to my mother, and hesitated, fearing to
find her worse. Turning to M. Menon, I said, "I once knew a Russian
family, in which it had become almost a matter of belief that when a shadow
left the room of a sick person, he would die that same day, or very shortly."
"Do not let yourself be distressed," he replied, "it was only a play of
shadows, caused by a gust of wind most probably." I was not convinced,
but went into my mother's room. The light had gone out, which struck
me. I relit it and found her dozing. I was obliged to wake her and ask her
how she was. She looked at me as if she had been dreaming, and
answered, '' I am not so well, I am in some pain. Let me sit up. . . ,
lam oppressed. . . ."I re-arranged her position, but being unable to
control myself any longer, I asked, " Mamma, did you hear anything just
now?" "No, why?" " Don't you know ? We saw a shadow come out of
your room. " She looked at me with vague interrogation. I could not keep
from crying, and without thinking that my tears might trouble her, I asked,
" You are going to get well, to stay with us, to live a long time, are you
not?" " Yes," she said, " yes, poor child. You are a baby to cry about a
shadow. It all means nothing. Tell Valerie to bring my tisane."
I went back to the dining room, and found that my brother had told
Valerie (my sister). She was surprised, but not as much impressed as I
was.
My brother and M. Menon took leave of my mother and went out, the
former not returning till late. That night my mother grew worse, and
continued to do so.
We did not again speak about the apparition, and in a few days I ceased to
think of it.
My mother died on January 25th of the same year, between 9 and 10 in
the evening. One day when my brother and I were talking of her, "That
shadow," I said, "was not altogether wrong, and my presentiment did not
deceive me." " No," my brother replied, " the more I think of it the less
I understand it—yet we really did see something."
I have never had any other hallucination.
2. Account of lhr. Isnard.
In 1878, I lived with my mother and sisters at the Rue Jacob. My
mother had been in bed seriously ill for four months, when one evening,
The Subliminal Self. 451
M. Menon dining with us, she expressed a wish to be present at the meal,
by having the dixlr left open.
Our apartments consisted of five rooms, three looking out on the Rue
Jacob, two (the dining room and my mother's room) on an inner yard. The
event occurred in these two. There were three doors in the dining room—
that of the antechamber, my mother's (a glass folding door), and the third,
which was closed by a bee de cane, led by a passage into the front rooms.
The night was quiet, it was about 9 or 9.30. We were calm, and almost
reassured by the improvement in my mother's health.
Our conversation at last seemed to fatigue the invalid, and she asked us
to close the door. We set it to, and went on talking.
Suddenly the door of the corridor opened wide, the leaves of my
mother's door clashed and then opened, and the wind rose. I thought it odd
there should be a gust of wind, when all the windows were shut. I looked
about, and saw between the curtains which surrounded my mother's door,
the shadow of a woman, small, bent, with head bent forward, and arms
crossed on the bosom. A dusty grey veil seemed to cover it, so that it
looked like a nun. It came softly into the room, gliding over the floor, in
the same attitude ; the face was invisible. It passed close to me, out of the
door, and disappeared in the darkness of the passage. A second gust of
wind closed the doors. The whole thing lasted six or seven seconds.
I did not feel fear, but we were all three embarrassed. We had seen the
same thing, and did not dare to admit it to one another. My sister was
particularly affected.
"It was nothing, mademoiselle," said M. Menon, "it was a play of
shadows. Do not be disturbed." My sister said she had known a Russian
family who believed that when a shadow went out of an invalid's room, he
would die that day, or certainly before long. She then went to my mother.
My youngest sister, who had been absent, returned, and seemed greatly
surprised at what we told her.
My friend and I went out together. When I returned I found my
mother much worse.
What astonishes me to this day is that though our minds were full of the
apparition, we avoided any mention of it.
Next week, I was alone with my mother. She had been sitting in the
dining-room for some minutes. My sisters were out. It was 5 o'clock, the
time when Dr. D. generally came. I had never been alone with him. Being
a medical student, I suspected that my mother's state was serious, and I had
not courage to receive the sentence of death. So that when he came, I
declined to go to the door. My mother rose, and at that moment I was
struck by her attitude. It was that of the shadow we had seen. She
advanced slowly towards the door, little and bent. Her head and shoulders
were covered by a shawl and her face was invisible ; her arms were crossed
over her chest.
My mother died on the 25th of January, at 9.30.
I give you the facts as they are, without attempting to explain them.
Dr. Isnard.
15, Boulevard Arago.
452 F. W. H. Myers.
3. Account of M. Menon-Cormtet.
At the beginning of January, 1878, I went to see my friend, Dr. Isnard,
of No. 28, Rue Jacob, and to enquire after his mother who had been for
some time dangerously ill. I was asked to dinner, and MUes Isnard, their
brother, and I dined in a room next to that of the invalid. Towards the
end of the meal the youngest sister went to the kitchen. The door of Mme
Isnard's room was put to, but not closed. It was near the right corner of
the dining-room and was close to another door which communicated with the
drawing-room by means of a passage. These doors were at right angles with
one another ; both were pushed to, but not hasped ; at least the glass door
into Mme Isnard's room was not. M. Isnard and I could both see these doors,
one on the right and the other on the left, and MUe Isnard faced the angle
formed by the two doors. We all distinctly saw a shadow glide from the
invalid's door to the door communicating with the corridor, following the
angle. This shadow looked like a woman with a very long veil, like a nun ;
its head was bent. It seemed to me to grow less and less distinct, and on
reaching the door leading to the drawing-room, it disappeared. It seemed
to disappear through the floor. At this moment the two doors, which had
opened suddenly and simultaneously before the shadow passed, returned
quickly and simultaneously to their original positions, striking loudly against
their doorposts. The passing of the figure and the closing of the doors took
about 6 or 7 seconds.
Each of us at first believed that he or she alone had been hallucinated,
but we were of course obliged to abandon this hypothesis. When the
younger M1Ie Isnard came back she was told what had occurred, and could
not believe it. She had not left the kitchen in the meantime. I went and
looked out of the only window of the dining-room to see if there were any
possibility of a shadow having been cast through it, but there was no lighted
window on the same floor as ours, in the buildings opposite our apartment.
We were on the third floor, looking out on the yard ; there were several
windows below slightly lighted, and there was a gas lamp in the yard, but
this was 7 or 8 yards below, exactly under our window. Neither was it
possible that a shadow should have been thrown through either of the dining-
room doors. It appeared impossible to us that any effect of light could have
produced what we had seen, and we gave up our attempts at a satisfactory
explanation.
Mme Isnard died some days after, and it is only since her death that we
have sometimes talked of the mysterious apparition.
G. Menon-Cornuet.
22, Rue do Constantinople,
Paris, November 1oth, 1890.
4. Attestation of M. Josset.
I, the undersigned, certify that Dr. Isnard, one of my intimate friends,
related to me ten years ago the curious case of the passing of a shadow in
his rooms, simultaneously observed by three persons. He told me that the
shadow exactly resembled his mother, who was then dangerously ill, and
The Subliminal Self. 453
died a few days after. We have often spoken of this fact, which we believed
to be absolutely unique ; and Dr. Isnard's story has never varied.
L. Josset,
6, Boulevard Arago, Paris. Chemist of the First Class.
5. Witness of Mlu V. Isnard.
I remember perfectly that when I came back to the dining-room, my
brother told me what all three had seen. I have just read their accounts,
j and can certify that the facts related there are exactly as they were told me
directly after the event. y iSnard
Observations fbom Dr. Dariex, Editor of Annates Psychufues.
We have before us the extract from the certificate of death of Mme Isnard,
draw up on the 26th January, 1878 ; we extract the following passage :
"Marie-Josephine de Boussois, Rentiere, died at her domicile, 28, Rue
Jacob, yesterday (that is on the 25th January, 1878) at 11 o'clock at night,
.... widow of Jean-Augustin Isnard . . . ."
Therefore Madame Isnard died on January 25th, 1878, as we have always
been told.
Although the witnessess of this strange phenomenon are our intimate
friends ; though we cannot possibly doubt their sincerity, and though we
know that they related the story to their friends, ten years ago, when they
knew nothing of psychical phenomena, we have visited the rooms where it
happened, in order to see if some natural explanation were not possible.
After a minute examination of the house and the rooms, we have been
obliged to acknowledge that no natural shadow could have been accidentally
projected on the spot where the appearance was observed, and that none of
the witnesses could have been mistaken on the point.
This hypothesis is also corroborated by the strange resemblance between
the shadow and the invalid, who had the same figure, the same dress, and
the same attitude ; and this argues in favour of the psychical character of
the phenomenon.
None of the witnesses is subject to hallucinations or has had another in
his life.
The younger daughter of M1"e Isnard, who was in the kitchen at the
time, and whose shadow could have not been projected into the dining-room,
was 16 centimetres taller than her mother ; she had besides no veil on her
head, and her shadow, even admitting that it could have been seen there,
could not in any way have resembled the one seen.
Besides, this particular shadow was not so dark as projected shadows are;
Dr. Isnard compares it to spider's web.
M. Menon and MUe Isnard saw it in profile on the doors and walls, as if
it had been thrown there ; Dr. Isnard saw it in space, clearly detached, and
objective ; to him, it hid what was behind it, as an object more or less
transparent might do. When the position of the places, the path taken by
the shadow, and the respective positions of the witnesses are studied, it is
easy to perceive that it must, or at least may have been so, even if the form
was really objective : M. Isnard was placed rather near the glass door and
454 F. W. H. Myers.
perpendicularly to it ; the shadow, coming out of the glass door to reach the
angle and the corridor door, must have at first come straight towards him,
so that it was easy for him to see it in space ; for at the point it started from
and for about a yard of its path, he could not have seen it projected into the
dinmg-room ; he would have seen it projected on the wall of the bedroom,
about six yards off.
On the other hand, M"e Isnard and M. Menon, placed farther from the
angle and from the door, could not see the shadow coming towards them, and
when they looked at the figure, their gaze, instead of meeting the empty
space in the bedroom, would have fallen on the opening of the glass door, on
the angle of the two walls, and on the door of the corridor, at that moment
wide open.
Thus, (and we insist on this point) the different way in which the shadow
was seen by the witnesses seems to depend on their positions in regard to
the path of the figure, and this difference favours the theory of its objectivity.
However, we should not dare to conclude that the apparition was really
objective and that the three percipients really saw the phantasm or double
of the invalid. But we draw attention to the following six points :—
1. A strange and unforeseen phenomenon was spontaneously and simul
taneously observed in the same manner by the three persons present, whose
attention was first drawn to it by a gust of wind.
2. MUe Isnard found her mother asleep directly after.
3. The shadow resembled the invalid and walked like her.
4. The invalid felt worse at once, grew steadily worse, and died a few
days after.
5. No real shadow could have taken the path of the shadow which was
seen.
6. The gust of wind occurred in a time of complete calm, when the
windows were shut.
Again, the witnesses observed no movement of the air, as they would
with a real gust of wind.
Some movement of the air might however have passed unobserved on
account of the disturbed state of the witnesses. t-v , ,_
Apart from the collectivity of the percipience, another new point,
it will be observed, is here involved. If this phantom was really a
message from the decedent's spirit implying that death was near, the
circumstances suggest that that spirit must also have been able to
discern a scene in the remaining earth-life which ordinary inference
could not have foretold. We pass in fact, at this point, from organic
prevision to a prevision of future incidents of life, of which there will
be much to say later on.
But before directly facing this main problem, it will be well to lead
up to it by another indirect route—namely, through certain apparent
acts of prevision which seem to be at least partly explicable by
telepathy. In the cases—as yet few—where there has been anything
The Subliminal Self. 455
like a series of telepathic messages, some element of apparent pre
diction has generally been included ; although probably often
resolvable into a mere conversion of the agent's expectation and
inference into what looks to the percipient like an actual reality.
The following telepathic diary—which we have not been able to
persuade Dr. and Mrs. S. to renew—illustrates this slight want
of contemporaneity.
P. 169. From the Pacific Theosvphist, San Francisco,
August, 1893.
The following experiments were conducted by a well-known physician of
this City and his wife. Both were somewhat interested in the subject and,
upon the latter leaving for a visit in the country, it was arranged that at a
certain time of each day ten minutes should be devoted to an attempt to
communicate telepathically, each alternating as transmitter and receiver.
The notes, carefully written down while separated nearly a hundred miles,
speak for themselves. They also make it apparent that the physician accom
plished something more than mere telepathy. In receiving supposed mes
sages, he several times got accurate information of things which the wife had
no idea she was imparting and in one or two instances actually foresaw
occurrences which could not possibly have been known to his transmitter.
This shows how intimately our psychic senses blend one with the other, and
how hard it is for an untrained person to distinguish just what psychic
faculty is active. The phenomena recorded are commonplace in their char
acter ; the interest lies in their truthfulness and the scientific accuracy of
their observation. The results are as follows :—
Miy 12th.—Transmitter, Mrs. S. May 12th. —Received.
Arrived safely. Pleasant trip. B. Had a good trip. B. slept well.
feels fairly well. We have a nice House squarely built and plain ;
place in an old-fashioned house. porch surrounded by trees ; not front
ing the road ; rooms very sunny.
[All accurate. What follows was
seen clairvoyantly, apparently. —
Ed.] Landlady wears sun-bonnet with
jacket of same. Little boy three years
old. [Boy expected, but did not arrive
until next day. The description ac
curate.] Fire in north east. [Fire
occurred next night.]
May 13th.—Transmitter, Dr. S. May 13th.—Received.
Theresa B. and her mother were I think Theresa B. was there or is
here yesterday. Also Clara and coming. Something, I can't make
Emma. Business somewhat dull, out, about business. I think it is bad.
W.'s house burned yesterday.
May 14th. May Uth.
Nothing sent. Forgot to keep the appointed time.
456 F. W. H. Myers.
May 15th.—Transmitter, Dr. S.
E. and R. went to park. Mrs. A.
is angry. S. paid his bill.
May 16th.—Transmitter, Mrs. S.
Paid a visit to K.'s. B. feels quite
well.
May 17th.—Transmitter, Dr. S.
Nothing sent ; business prevented.
May 18th.—Transmitter, Mrs. S.
B. does not feel well at all. Went
for medicine.
May 19th.—Transmitter, Dr. S.
Case of D. will come off in the
courts 29th. Business still quiet.
Played whist.
May 20th.—Transmitter, Mrs. S.
My clothes and shoes are all torn.
I have poison oak on my arms. Hope
it will not be bad.
May 21st.
Appointment forgotten.
May 22nd.—Transmitter, Mrs. S.
Visited springs. Very warm all
day. I have a sick headache.
May 23rd.—Transmitter, Dr. S.
Up all night. Very tired. Nothing
new.
May loth.—Received.
Could get nothing definite ; think
you collected some money.
May 16th.—Received.
You took a long walk. I see a
young man with a revolver in his
hand. [A young man shot a dog in
the garden that day.]
May 17th.— Received. J
Could get nothing at all. Think
you were out.
May 18th.—Received.
See a lot of wine casks and demi
johns. Something about curtains.
[Mrs. S. visited a large wine cellar on
the 17th. The curtains in her room
annoyed her very much. But nothing
about either was consciously sent.]
May 19th.—Received.
Think you had rain. You seem
dissatisfied. You are telling me some
thing about D., I am sure. [It did ,V
rain, but the fact was not consciously
sent.]
May 20th.—Received.
You went out riding. I see you
holding a shoe in your hand. You
have poison oak on your right arm.
B. is better. You want me to mail
you the Bulletin and Chronicle. [Mrs.
S. did ride out to some sulphur
springs. Poison oak was on right
arm only. B. gained three pounds.
She was hoping for the Bulletin sup
plement only.]
May 21st.
Not at home ; did not sit to receive.
May 22nd.—Received.
It must be warm ; I see you fann
ing yourself, you were riding ; on a
donkey, 1 think. [She rode in a car
riage but saw a donkey on her trip
which amused her very much.]
May 23rd.—Received.
You are looking very cross aud
tired.
The Subliminal Self. 457
May '24th.—Transmitter, Mrs. S. May 24th.—Received.
Sent nothing. I see a big church-like building—
brick. [Mrs. S. went the evening
previous to a church entertainment.
The description correct. Not sent
consciously].
May 2oth.—Transmitter, Dr. S. May 2oth.—Received.
I have a bad sore throat. I am You have unpleasant weather. You
going to Drs. F. and S. (dentists) to are trying to tell me something about
give ether. It is a windy day. Dr. F. and his partner, Dr. S , but I
can't make it out.
Mrs. S. was somewhat doubtful about the success or even possibility of
such experiments succeeding, and was fairly startled upon comparing
memoranda on her return home. B. is a sister of Mrs. S., for whose
benefit the trip was taken. The doctor had never been in that part of the
country, and so could not have seen the house and church he so accurately
described. The experiments throw much light on psychic faculties other than
mere telepathy.
J. S., M.D., Physician and Surgeon.
San Francisco, November 29th, 1893.
R Hodgson, Esq ,—Dear Sir,—In reply to yours of November 15th,
my statement is that my experiment with my wife in telepathy resulted pre
cisely as you find it given in the Pacific Theosophist. [In a later letter Dr.
S. states that he is not himself a Theosophist.]
I came to try the experiment this way : I read in the daily papers of a
certain drummer who, when absent from his home, made it a practice to sit
at ten o'clock p.m., for about half an hour, his wife the same, and mentally
communicate the news of the day to each other, as exchanging letters was
inconvenient, he being compelled to change his location every day.
As my wife was to go away from San Francisco last summer with a sick
sister of hers, we decided to try the experiment, with the result given in the
Pacific Tlieosophist. My wife has grown up in an atmosphere of scepticism,
consequently she did not give the subject as much attention as I did,
otherwise we might have had better results. Now, of course, her personal
experience convinced her of something.
No third person was aware of our doing, excepting what I state here : I
met Dr. J. Anderson in consultation about a patient, when I told him I
believed in the possibilities of telepathy, and that I was making experiments
just then with my wife. He asked me to Rhow him the result, good or
bad, which I did. Dr. Anderson never met my wife, neither did he
know where she went to. She was in St. Helena, Sonoma County, about
63 miles from the city.
We agreed to sit twenty minutes at ten o'clock p.m. In sending news, I
fixed my mind strongly on the messages, in receiving I made my mind as
near blank as I could, excluding all thought. Everything I received came to
me as a mental picture. Sometimes I would see things only partly, like half
of a face. When I saw her arm, with the poison oak, it came very clearly.
I almost thought I could speak to her, but I never heard anything like noise.
458 F. W. H. Myers.
The only other experiments I tried were several years ago in mind-reading.
One party would fix his mind on a certain card, and I would tell him which
one it was. I succeeded once out of every three attempts. Some days I could
tell correctly four or five times in succession, other times I failed altogether.
1 tried the experiments for my own personal satisfaction, having no desire
to attract notice whatever. 1 may also add that I found that a quiet mind
and rested condition of the system is necessary for success.
I don't wish my name to be published, but if anybody should enquire of
you privately, the same as you did of Dr. Anderson, I have no objection to-
you giving them my name and address.
Wishing you success in your labours, I remain, yours, jjr J g
I corroborate the above statement in every detail. Una E S
Mr. W. E. Coleman, well-known to Dr. Hodgson, writes to him as follows :
Chief Q.M. Office, San Francisco, California,
December 21st, 1893.
Upon enquiry I find that Dr. J. S. is a reputable physician of character
and standing. All speak well of him, and he is considered a man of veracity.
I can find nothing against him as man or as doctor. j, (j^^^
I add a few cases of scenes apparently prefigured, where the pre-
figurement may simply have been a telepathic transference of an,
anticipation existing in another mind. J
Here is a trivial premonition, which may have had its rise in an.
existing intention on the caller's part to offer to show the slides,
telepathically transferred to Dr. Smith. It is an evidential weat
that Dr. Smith had not told the dream before the offer was made.
P. 187.
From Dr. Henry Smith, Associate S.P.R., toE. T. Bennett, (enclosing "B.">
Cravensea, Cockington, Torquay,
April 13th, 1894.
Dear Sib,—Many strange facts occur which with our present knowledge
are unaccountable. I will give you one.
On Friday night, 6th inst. , I had a very vivid dream. I dreamt I called
on a gentleman on business matters. He asked me to look at a number of
transparent photographic slides. I sat down and much enjoyed the views.
They were remarkably fine and so impressed themselves on my memory that,
during the day, I could distinctly see the streets and buildings.
On Saturday evening, 7th inst., Mr. Winget, my printer, called on me. In
the course of conversation he said : " I see you are interested in Egyptian
buildings—I have lately purchased a very fine collection of transparent
photographic slides. I have four sets—Egypt, Palestine, The Rhine, and
Paris—also a very fine stereoscopic cabinet. I should have great pleasure in
shewing them to you, if you will kindly come up to my house."
I listened with surprise to what he said, and when he was gone I
remarked to my children, " Did you hear what Mr. Winget said ? I was too
The Subliminal Self. 459
much astonished to make any remark to him on the subject." I then told
them my dream.
On Sunday evening following, I went to Mr. Winget's house, and there
to my astonishment stood the very box and its surroundings I had seen in
my dream. I sat down and looked over twenty or more slides, then got up
and said, " I will look at no more ! " for there I saw the identical views I
had seen in my dream.
What theory will account for this fact ? This was not dreaming of some
thing that had taken place, but most vividly of something that was to take
, Pi**.—Yours truly, Hekhy Smith.
"B." (enclosure). Cravensea, Torquay,
April 19th, 1894.
I was in the room with my sisters when Mr. Winget invited my father
to go to his house to look at some transparent slides, illustrating Paris,
Egypt, etc.
Immediately Mr. Winget left, my father exclaimed, "I was so astonished
at what Mr. Winget said, that I could not answer him ! He has most
graphically described my dream—this is most extraordinary !—I will accept
the invitation."
My father went, and found everything exactly as he had seen in the
dream—the chair, window, and other surrounding objects—as well as the
cabinet and slides. •
I may add that we had noticed how remarkably quiet my father became
when Mr. Winget mentioned the slides.
Ada Smith.
Annie Smith.
Phosbe Maud Smith.
Observe that if Dr. Smith had less distinctly observed that his
thought of the slides preceded the offer to show them, that offer might
have given the characteristic feeling of promnesia,—as of the repetition
of something previously rehearsed. It has already been suggested that
the promnesic sensation may sometimes thus be at bottom a form of
telepathy.
Here is another case, where the warning of danger may have been
a telepathic impact from the mind of the assassin, as he heard the
approach of his intended victim.
P. 173.
Four years ago, I made arrangements with my nephew, John W.
Parsons, to go to my office after supper to investigate a case. We walked along
together, both fully determined to go up into the office, but just as I stepped
upon the door sill of the drug store, in which my office was situated, some
invisible influence stopped me instantly. I was much surprised, felt like I
was almost dazed, the influence was so strong, almost like a blow, I felt like
I could not make another step. I said to my nephew, "John, I do not feel
like going into the office now, you go and read Flint and Aitkin on the
subject." He went, lighted the lamp, took off his hat, and just as he was
k*..
460 F. W. H. Myers.
reaching for a book the report of a large pistol was heard. The ball entered
the window near where he was standing, passed near to and over his head,
struck the wall and fell to the floor. Had I been standing where he was, I
would have been killed, as I am much taller than he. The pistol was fired
by a man who had an old grudge against me, and had secreted himself in a
vacant house near by to assassinate me.
This impression was unlike any that I ever had before. All my former
impressions were slow in their development, grew stronger and stronger,
until the maximum was reached. I did not feel that I was in any danger,
and could not understand what the strong impression meant. The fellow
was drunk, had been drinking for two weeks. If my system had been in a
different condition—I had just eaten supper—I think I would have received
along with the impression some knowledge of the character of the danger,
and would have prevented my nephew from going into the office.
I am fully satisfied that the invisible and unknown intelligence did the
best that could have been done, under the circumstances, to save us from
harm- D. J. Parsons, M.D., Sweet Springs, Mo.
(The above account was received in a letter from Dr. D. J. Parsons,
dated December 15th, 1891.)
Statement of Dr. J. W. Parsons.
About four years ago my uncle. Dr. D. J. Parsons, and I were going to
supper, when a man halted us and expressed a desire for medical advice.
My uncle requested him to call the next morning, and as we walked along he
said the case was a bad one and that we would come back after supper and
go to the office and examine the authorities on the subject. After supper
we returned, walked along together on our way to the office, but just as we
reached the door of the drug store he very unexpectedly, to me, stopped
suddenly, which caused me to stop too ; we stood there together a few
seconds, and he remarked to me that he did not feel like going into the office
then, or words to that effect, and told me to go and examine Flint and
Aitkin. I went, lit the lamp, and just as I was getting a book, a pistol was
fired into the office, the ball passing close to my head, struck the East wall,
then the North, and fell to the floor.
This 5th day of July, 1891.
John W. Parsons, [Ladonia, Texas.]
I have spoken of these last cases as explicable by telepathy, or
supernormal perception of the contents of a distant mind;—and of
some previous cases as explicable by telesthesia, or supernormal
perception of matter at a distance, without any assignable influence of
another mind. Of course, however, we cannot broadly distinguish
from each other obscure faculties such as these. For aught we know,
there may be a higher point of view from which these two types of
connaissance supérieure may be fused in one. We need not, then, be
surprised if we find cases where the two faculties, if we can so term
them, meet,—as where some disposition of material objects seems to
facilitate a transference of thought.
The Subliminal Self. 461
We have had some curious instances of this kind, where the
actual touch of some object which had belonged to a deceased person
seemed, in Mrs. Piper's trances, to facilitate communication from
that person.
And, somewhat similarly, keeping to matters within our present
scope, we have already published several cases where a letter in course
of passage through the post seems to have been cognised by its intended
recipient before delivery. Sometimes a knowledge of the letter's
i content is thus transmitted ; sometimes the outside only is prefigured,
perhaps with postmarks which the writer himself has not seen. It
looks as though the current of the writer's thought had directed his
intended reader's supernormal perception to some sight of the actual
material letter then on its way to him. I quote two cases of this type.
M.C1. 92. Visual.
Mrs. Venn writes :—
3, St. Peter's Terrace, Cambridge, January 9th, 1895.
Z.\ 'January 8th, I came down to breakfast; A. was sitting at the table,
Dr. Venn was not in the room. Something engaged my attention at the end
of the room, and standing with my back to the table I said ; "Are there any
letters for me, A. ? " (The letters are usually on or by my plate. )
A. "Yes, one; there is one. "
[Mrs. Venn.] "See who it's from ; do you know ? "
A- "It has the Deal postmark; it is from Frances (Venn)—for you
or me."
Turning round I saw no letter, and said : "I see no letter, A. What are
you talking about ? Have you hidden it 1 "
A. "Unless my eyes deceive me, there is a letter, as I said."
Going up to the table to look, I found none, and said : " There is none.
You shouldn't invent things ; you shouldn't say things just as if they were
true, when they're not ' " (No doubt a valuable observation.)
A. " Well, I didn't. There was one, or, at any rate, my eyes seemed to
see one just as I told you, with the Deal postmark and Frances' writing ;
but I don't know if it was to you or me. I couldn't read the writing from
here. I know there's none now. " Subject dropped purposely.
This was at 9 o'clock. Returning at 10 o'clock into the hall, the second
post having just come, the servant had just put one letter on the hall table ;
it was to A. from Frances and bore the Deal postmark, as A. had said.
She had been at Frant, and we did not know she had returned home, and
were not expecting to hear from her. Another cousin wrote generally.
There was nothing of any note in the letter. It was given to A. at the end
of his lessons with the remark—" Here is the letter, you see, after all."
"Yes," he said, indifferently, not a bit interested, his mind full of some
thing else, "I often do see things like that, you know I do."
A. was with his tutor when the second post came, and the letter was
taken in by the servant, and laid on the hall table before me—there was no
2 l
462 F. W. H. Myers.
possibility of his having hid it ; and he wouldn't have cared to do it in any
case. We never take any notice to him of his saying anything of the sort.
S. C. Venn.
P.S.—I am sorry I didn't keep the letter to send you, but let some one
burn it. A. left it lying about ; but I took it into the drawing-room and
shewed it to Dr. Venn and told him the story, before giving it to A.
Dr. John Venn, F.R.S., adds :—
This was so.
J. Venn.
Mrs. Venn writes later :—
January 21st.
His cousins live at Walmer, but the post-mark is Deal.
Archie would think of Walmer, not of Deed, as their home ; but he
might have seen previous letters during the last three or four months with
Deal post-mark on them, though he had received none from them addressed
to himself from there. He would have had the opportunity of noticing it
on letters to his father or to me.
S. C. Venn.
Mrs. Venn adds the following account of an incident which took place a
few years ago—a case of apparent thought-transference between herself and
her son, occurring in a dream.
January 15th, 1895.
I think the oddest experience I ever had with him was one night at
Bournemouth, when he still slept in my room. I dreamed a dream and
woke with it, and he immediately (asleep still) in his sleep began to talk
about it, proving that he was dreaming the same thing. It was a very queer
dream, and involved the question of how many inches (of a row of candles)
should be cut off each candle. He gravely begged me to " cut off six inches,
do, mamma " ; when I was feeling four would be enough. It was a fete in
our dream, and we were lighting up some room. No real thing had
happened to suggest it to us, but we both dreamt it together apparently.
Compare the following case from a percipient known to Dr.
Hodgson.
P. 163. 2024, Lexington Avenue, New York,
February 17th, 1893.
About two weeks ago, I think on the night of the 3rd inst., I dreamed
that I was going to a place called Pontegardo. I remembered the name dis
tinctly on awaking, but it seemed so "outlandish " and queer, I did not
think that it could be a real name. I asked my mother if she knew of a place
with such a name. She said that she did not. Three or four days after that
I received a letter from my husband, who is in Florida, saying that he would
probably go to Puntagardo. This letter was written either the day preced
ing my dream, or the day after.
Phebe L. Griffing [Associate S.P.R.]
As related above, my daughter-in-law asked me, the morning after her
dream, if I knew of a place called Pontegardo. I did not know of such a
place until my son's letter was received, saying that he thought of going
there. Jane R. Griffing.
The Subliminal Self. 403
2024, Lexington Avenue, New York,
February 21st, 1893.
Dear Mb. Hodgson,— .... My daughter-in-law has the letter
referring to Puntagardo, but as it is principally about personal affairs, she
does not like to send it. Charley writes of a business project which, if he
carries it out, will make Phebe's dream premonitory, as they will go there
to live. If this should be the result, it will be one of the clearest of pre
monitions, as when she received the letter, nothing of the kind had been
contemplated. There was only an intention on Charley's part to remain in
' Jacksonville, or go to Tallahassee to take charge of a newspaper office.
These two plans were in Phebe's mind, and she had no idea of any other plan.
Jane R. Grifping.
And here we find a point of transition to a new group of cases, in
which foreknowledge of similar type comes from a definite mind, of
which, however, we cannot clearly determine whether it is the
percipient's own mind or a mind external to her, and unembodied.
My first example comes from Mr. W., the friend of Dr. Hodgson's,
from whom a case has above been cited.
P. 150. October 26fA, 1894.
Dear Dr. Hodgson,—As you are well aware, I have been for a number
of years an automatic writer, so-called. The following is an account of an
experience I had last April.
In the afternoon, I was riding eastward towards Schenectady, N.Y., on
the N.Y.C. and H.R. road. I intended to get off at Schenectady, and take
a train from there to Troy, and at Troy to get a train on the Fitchburgh and
Hoosac Tunnel Road. I asked the conductor whether I would be able to
make good connections at Schenectady, also at Troy. He informed me that
I would at Schenectady, but at Troy I would not, for the reason that I would
not arrive in Troy until five minutes after the departure of the train on the
F. and H. T. He told me that I would not arrive in Troy until 5. 5. and
my train departed at just five o'clock, and that it was the last one for the
week. This was Saturday. I asked him if he could suggest any way for
me to get the train or reach my desired place of destination, but he said he
could not. It seemed certain that I must lay off in Troy over Sunday.
The conductor passed on, and I meditated, but to no purpose. After some
time I took a pencil and paper, and thought, but did not write, " Well, I
think I shall not get through to-night, I am very sorry." Instantly the
pencil wrote, "You will reach to-night," naming the place I was
bound for. I replied, by thought, "Why, it's impossible, how can I ?—the
train out of Troy leaves five minutes before my train arrives." The answer
was, " Yes, but you will get to to-night," again naming my place of
destination. Again I thought, "Pray tell me how I am to do so." The
answer was, " Oh, never mind how, I tell you you will arrive in all
right to-night." I urged the impossibility of the matter, but that was
stoutly denied. I pleaded for an explanation, but it was written that I needed
none, and that none would be given me. I asked for instruction and it was
2 l 2
464 F. W. H. Myers.
written that they had none to give. I insisted on the fact that I could not
get the train, but this was not conceded.
On arriving at Schenectady I found my train for Troy, and as I boarded
it, I asked the trainman if we would arrive in Troy in time for me to g«t a
train on the Fitchburgh and Hoosac Tunnel Road. He replied " No" very
promptly, and added, " it leaves five minutes before we arrive." I took my
seat. When the conductor came along I tried hard to appear innocent, and
asked him if I would get to Troy in time to get a train out on the Fitchburg
and Hoosac Tunnel Road. I said I hoped to, for I was very anxious to
arrive at that night. His reply was, " We do not arrive in Troy until
five minutes after five, and the train on that road pulls out at just five and
it's the last train." He passed on picking up tickets and I settled back into
my seat. It seemed as if the last chance was gone, and I could not help
but wonder what would be written, so I observed mentally, " Well, you see
your prediction is wrong, do you not '? " And then came to me what seemed
to be the height of foolishness, " Why, you will get there all right, just as
I told you." No explanation being vouchsafed, I fell to planning what
I would do in the city of Troy over Sunday, for I had no hope of
getting out.
After a while the conductor came back and took a seat just behind me,
and leaning over towards me he said, " So you would very much like to get
that train, would you?" "Yes, sir," I said. "Well," continued he,
" there is just one way that is possible for you to do it, if you are a good
runner and willing to take chances." Of course I asked how. Said he, "I
don't advise anyone to do it, but it is possible to jump off this train, for we
stop before we reach the Troy Dep6t, and run and jump on to that train while
it is going out." And he took a pencil and drew the railroads and the
depot (a Union one) about like this :—
Troy
Depot.
The Subliminal Self. 465
And then he went on to explain : " We are not allowed to run into the
depSt untU the train for Saratoga and the one ou the Fitchbnrgh and H. T.R.
have both pulled out, which they both do at just five o'clock. We should
arrive at our stopping place X at about five. You could get off there and
run across the Saratoga track and over to Z and jump on to that train.
There is a street from a point near X to Z."
At X, as our train stopped, I jumped from it and ran to point Z and
caught my train which was passing at that point.
When seated in the car I gave the pencil one more chance and it was
written : "I see you are on board all right ; don't you think I knew what I
was telling you ? "
I had no further trouble in reaching the desired place that night.
I will say that I was not aware of any of the material facts prior to their
appearing as I have stated them. I had not consulted any time-table or
otherwise learned as to the times on which these trains were to arrive or
depart : and I knew nothing of the train stopping outside the Troy Depot or of
the possibility of getting from it and running up the street and catching the
train I wished to take. I never had the slightest idea of such a thing until
the conductor laid the plan before me just as I have stated it. I was
travelling alone. I did not know the conductor or anybody that I saw.
I had no occasion to look up or inform myself as to trains at Troy for
the reason that I expected to travel on the West Shore Road instead of the
N.Y.C. and H.R.R. ; but I missed the train on the West Shore Road and so
took the N.Y.C. and H.R.R. as the best thing possible under the circum
stances. On the West Shore Road my journey would not have been through
Schenectady and Troy but would have been to Rotterdam Junction on the
West Shore Road and there I would have connected with a train on the
Fitchburgh and Hoosac Tunnel Road, all very nicely.
I think this experience is quite unique. Perhaps some one can explain it.
W.
N.Y. November 8th, 1894.
In accordance with your suggestion, I send you herewith a further
statement that you may subjoin. I think it covers your enquiry.
C . W .
About two years prior to that I had travelled from Schenectady to Troy,
and out of Troy on F. and H. T. R. ; but at that time the train did not
stop outside of Troy Depot. I had travelled in years previous, that is, from 5
to 20 years ago, several times on trains between Schenectady and Troy,
but none of them ever stopped outside of Troy Depot. I had not been in
since the trip of two years before. Prior to that I had been in that
place perhaps once in two years, for a day.
It might be well to add that no friend of mine at or elsewhere
knew any of these facts, to the best of my knowledge and belief. After
arriving at I told my friends, but none of them had known of the
matters. I feel confident that no friend or acquaintance of mine knew I
was to travel from Schenectady to Troy, and that none of them had made
or heard of a connection in that way. From talks with them I know they
did not.
466 F. W. H. Myers.
Among our best attested cases of foreknowledge of a letter's arrival
was one communicated by Dr. Ermacora, of Padua, and printed
Vol. IX., p. 68.
As the readers of Dr. Ermacora's article in Proceedings, Vol. XI.,
are aware, that very careful observer has not yet been able to
decide whether the " mediumistic personality " which calls itself
Elvira is a separate entity, or merely a modification of the medium's
own mind. There is, in fact, much the same perplexity as in
another case which has been long and carefully observed,—the
problem, namely, as to the identity of the so-called Phinuit with
Mrs. Piper.
Whatever Elvira may be, she possesses certain supernormal powers
which for us are perhaps the more instructive in that their scope is
somewhat narrowly limited. Among these powers Elvira claims
'precognition ;—admittedly on what may be termed a puny scale, and
dealing with trivial matters, but nevertheless involving some real know
ledge of the coming course of events, and of the part which human
actions, apparently free, will play therein. The question now before us
is whether Elvira's apparent foreknowledge may not be explained as
inference from a slightly wider knowledge of the present, combined
with a power of suggestion exercised not only upon Maria Manzini
herself, (which on any hypothesis is obviously probable), but even upon
strangers.1 Dr. Ermacora, as will be seen, has kept these points in
mind ; and his conclusion is that Elvira has shown some foreknowledge
of events, paltry indeed in themselves, but yet such as suggestion can
hardly be pressed to cover. (See the incident of sale of pawn-tickets,
and others, in Bivista di Studi Psichici, 1895). The question will
then be,—and these trivial incidents may help us quite as well as
more important ones towards its solution,—whether that supernormal
knowledge of actually existing thoughts and things with which Elvira
must at any rate be credited (Proceedings, Vol. IX, p. 68) may be
enough to suggest by mere forward-looking inference,—itself perhaps
supernormally acute,—the events foretold in the two following and
some similar cases. The case first given would be easily explained
if there were collusion between Maria Manzini, and Linda Bigoni.
Dr. Emacora, however, is satisfied of the probity of Maria Manzini
who, as previously stated, has been well known to him for some
years.
1 At this paragraph passes through the press, I hear from Dr. Emacora that Elvira
has made a prediction involving a mistake to be made by Maria in cutting out some
garments, and has then withdrawn it, as not wishing that Maria should thus waste
the stuff, and resolving to influence her not to make the mistake. Elvira herself,
therefore, admits that she can influence the so-called predictions by suggestions of
her own.
The Subliminal Self. 467
P. 211.
Premonition of an Incident at the Caffe Nazionale at Padua.
Percipient, Maria Manzini.
On the 7th of April, 1894, at 9.30 p.m., Signa Maria Manzini was in the
somnambulistic state. The personality called Adriano manifested sensorially
(hallucinations). He asked me to suggest to M. to pay attention to the
dream she would have during the night, and to record it at once in the
proper book, as it would be premonitory.
I went to see Signa Maria the next day, and found the following note in
the register of dreams.
" Night of April 7-8, 1894. I dreamed that I was in the street, and
that, being very warm, I went into a Caffé to rest. It seemed to be the Caffé
at the bridge of San Lorenzo. I took some trifle, but when I wanted to pay
for it (I found), to my great surprise, that I had forgotten my purse and had
not a farthing. I was confused and to frightened and ashamed at not being
able to pay that I woke.
"Padua, April 8th, 8 a.m. Maria Manzini."
I questioned Signa Maria, to get more details, but it was not much use.
I immediately wrote the following note at the foot of hers. " M. says the
Caflo was the one now called the Caffé Nazionale. The occurrence took
place about 9.30 or 10 a.m. ; she does not remember the date. It was fine
and warm weather. She did not see any one else in the CafK, and does not
remember how she was dressed, nor what she drank."
April 8th, 10.50 p.m.
On the evening of April 9th, Signa Maria told me she had passed a restless
night and had slept little, and that she had heard a voice which told her to
pay attention to the continuation of the dream on the following night. I
found this hallucination also properly recorded in the register by Signa Maria.
On April 10th, instead of the record of the continued dream, I found the
following note :—
"Night of April 9-10, 1894. This night the voice again whispered
the words I had heard the night before, although I had gone to bed with the
intention of saying what Dr. E. had told me to say.
" I may have said it between sleeping and waking ; I remember distinctly
that the same voice replied ' I understand.'
" Padua, April lOtfc, 1894, 8 a.m. M. Manzini."
[I must explain that Signa Maria had not recognised the voice the first
time. I thought it was Adriano who had hallucinated her, but did not say
so. Now, as Adriano had fixed the night of the 10th for one of the experi
ments with telepathic dreams, and as I wished to put it off till the 11th, and
as none of the mediumistic personalities had in the meantime given me an
opportunity to propose the delay, I had thought of profiting by Adriano's
nocturnal manifestation, if it were repeated ; and had charged Signa Maria
to make the proposal if she heard the voice again. This second time Signa
M. recognised Adriano's voice ; i.e., the voice he assumes in her dreams.]
On the evening of the 11th Signa M. told me she had had the promised
continuation of the dream. She had noted as follows, directly on rising :—
468 F. W. H. Myers.
" Night of April 10-11, 1894. I dreamed I was in the CafR Nazionale,
at the bridge of San Lorenzo, and that T was confused and did not know what
to say to the waiter, because I had not a farthing. At that moment I looked
into the street and saw an acquaintance, Linda Bigoni, passing. I called
her, and as she had money she got me out of the difficulty.
"Padua, April 11th, 1894, 8 a.m. M. Manzixi."
I omit the last half of the preceding note, as it concerns another dream.
We still had not been told on what day, nor with certainty on what hour,
the double dream would be realised. On April 14th I went with Professor
Faifofer and Signor Faido, to see Signa Maria, and Elvira manifested. I
asked her if she could possibly furnish the dates. She said she did not know
them, but that she would go and find out if we could wait a few moments.
This she did, and returned to say that the dream would be realised on May
30th following, between 10 and 11 a.m.
As Sig"a Maria was seriously indisposed at this time, the manifestations
of the different secondary personalities were very rare and irregular, and
consequently I had no opportunity to consult them about the present pre
diction. But on the evening of May 28th, Elvira manifested and said she
would return the next night to give me further particulars about the dream.
She said it would be realised on the 31st instant. I remarked at once that
the 30th had been predicted, but she insisted on its being the 31st : that she
had announced it for that day, and she called to witness the two men who
had been present at her communication of April 14th.
Next evening she manifested as she had promised, but she had little more
to add. She repeated the prediction in the following terms. She did not
dictate, but I copy the note I took the same evening, textually (consequently
two days before the fulfilment). My note is founded upon notes taken on
the spot, and is therefore almost equivalent to notes written from dictation.
May 29th, 5 p.m.
" Elvira re-affirms that the realization will take place on the 31st. In
spite of my notes, which indicate the 30th, she is sure she said the 31st
before the two men who were present (Prof. Faifofer and Signor Faido), and
says that their testimony may be appealed to.1 To my repeated question,
she replied that the time would be 10 a.m.
"I asked her to tell me everything she knows. She says that at that hour
M. will pass the spot, will be hot and tired, and will enter the Caffe' and
order a glass."
"Q. Of what?
" A. I don't know ; I can tell you to-morrow night.
" M. will also eat a cake, and will then look in vain for her purse. She
will be annoyed and confused, and will think of offering the waiter one of
her earrings. She will look out to see if any acquaintance passes. It will
be arranged that the person she dreamed of shall pass, and M will call
her in. She also will pay for a glass, and they will both laugh violently."
The above is taken from pencil notes written while Elvira was communi
cating.
May 29th, 6.25 p.m.
l I questioned these two gentlemen, but they conld not remember.
The Subliminal Self. 460
The following evening (May 30th), Elvira manifested in somnambulism
and told me she had been informed that M. would take a glass of Marsala,
but that she was not certain, as M. might change her mind at the last
moment.
On the morning of the 31st, I arranged to witness the realization,
unknown to Signa Maria and her friend, for fear of interfering with the
course of events. Since April 11th, when Signa M. wrote down and repeated to
me the second part of the dream, I had never mentioned the subject ; later
on, it had evidently vanished from her supraliminal consciousness, and she was
; unaware of Elvira's successive communications, as they had taken place in
somnambulism.
To avoid recognition I wore a coat of a colour unlike any I habitually
wear, and a hat of a very common shape, which I had not used for several
years. About 9.30 a.m. I went towards the Caffe Nazionale. But as the
name of the caffe' had never been stated, and as we had only guessed it
from topographical indications, it suddenly occurred to me that there might
be some mistake about the place, and that tho scene of action might
possibly be the Caffe dell' Arena, which was close by. I walked up and
down in front of the Caffi5 Nazionale for some time, hoping to meet some
friend who would watch the CafK dell' Arena, but in vain. But whon I
saw that there were several persons in the latter, I thought that Signa
Maria would on that account be unwilling to enter it, and I decided to go to
the Caffe Nazionale. I seated myself at a table in a rather dark place, far
/rom the door.
The two tables which stood on each side of the door, near to the windows,
were occupied ; one of them by several persons who were talking animatedly.
This was an unfavourable circumstance, as it might prevent Signa Maria
from entering, or, if she entered, she would be obliged to sit far from the
windows, and so would not see her friend passing. I therefore concluded
that if the dream were to be realized, these persons would soon go. As a
fact the tables were both empty a few minutes before ten, and only two or
three people remained, farther back in the room.
Here is the account of what now occurred. It is based upon notes taken
at the time, and on a more detailed account written a few hours later.
At 10 precisely Sign* M. passed in front of the CafK walking rather fast.
She was going towards the Caffe dell' Arena, near the bridge of San Lorenzo.
She passed the door of the Caffe Nazionale, but just as I was losing sight
\ of her, she turned suddenly, as if she had come to a resolution, and,
entering the Caffe' seated herself at one of the empty tables near the
window. I raised a newspaper which I had kept unfolded for the purpose,
and hid myself behind it, pretending to read, though I was really watching
her movements over the top of it.
She ordered a glass of Cyprus ; a cake was also brought to her, but I did
not see if she ate it, not being able to watch her continuously. She sometimes
glanced in my direction and obliged me to hide my forehead and eyes behind
the journal. Soon after she began to feel behind her, and showed signs of
confusion, blushing very much. She often looked out of the window
impatiently, and then turned to look at the room, but she did not appear to
recognise me ; I took care to let my hat be seen. It was, as I said, of a
470 F. W. H. Myers.
very common shape, but quite unlike those I usually wore. She felt her
earrings repeatedly, but I could not see whether she removed them. The
waiter brought her some illustrated papers which she opened and looked at
carelessly, glancing now into the street and again into the room.
If the dream were to be exactly fulfilled, the friend must pass while
Signa M. was looking out. At 10.17 Sign" Linda Bigoni passed (who was the
friend dreamed of).
She walked fast in the direction of the bridge of San Lorenzo, towards
the CafK dell' Arena. At that moment Signa M. saw and called her ; but
she refused to come in and went on. Signa M. then rose quickly, went to
the door and called her more loudly. Signa Linda, whom I had lost sight of
for a moment, came back. They exchanged some words near the door, but I
only heard distinctly these words of Signa Linda's, "and if I had not
passed 1 " They re-entered the Caff& directly. Signa Maria offered a glass
to her friend and they then talked and laughed together, but quietly (not
noisily as Elvira had said).
At 10.25 Signa M. went out, apparently because she saw some one to whom
she wished to speak. At 10.26 she came in again.
Soon after, seeing that Signa Linda had emptied her glass, and fearing
they might leave before I had time to question them, I gave up waiting to
see if they would laugh loudly as Elvira had predicted, and went to sit close
to them.
They seemed greatly surprised to see me, and gave me a short account of
what I knew already. Signa Maria said she should never have supposed
that the person reading the newspaper was I, and that she had felt impatient '
for me and the other two or three people present to go, so that she might
be less ashamed to tell the waiter that she had no money and to leave some
article as a pledge.
She said she had thought of leaving an earring, only that it would look odd
to go away with one ; not remembering in her confusion that she could put
the other in her pocket. She tried to take off a ring, but it was too tight.
She seemed very much annoyed at not having recognised me, as she
might have appealed to me, and thus have spared herself some emotion and
a consequent headache.
She told me she had gone out that morning to visit two customers, one
of whom lived in this neighbourhood (Via Noci), but that in any case she
would have come this way to-day on account of other business. She had
not found her clients at home, and could have returned a shorter way with
out passing the CafK Nazionale, but she wanted to see the oleographs in the
window of the lithographer, Prospering so she turned, and first passed the
CafK dell' Arena and then the Caffe Nazionale. She was tired and warm, and
when passing the Caffe dell' Arena had thought of going in, but there were
too many people. When she was passing the CafK Nazionale, the idea
suddenly occurred to her again and she entered. When I questioned
Signa Linda, she told me she was not in the habit of passing through this
street. She had by chance passed there also the day before, about ten, but
that was the first time for a long period. Her reason for coming to-day was
that she had a dress to make for a lady who lived in this direction, but
farther on. She had chosen the morning for her visit by pure chance, having
The Subliminal Self. 471
at first decided to go in the evening. But this morning about nine she dis
covered that the trimming of the dress was wanting. She thought she
would go out to buy it, and then resolved to visit her customer about it first.
She even showed me the pattern of the trimming she was carrying to her
client
She told me she hardly ever carried money and that it was by pure
chance again that she happened to have a lire with her, and so was able to
render the little service to Signa Maria. Yesterday when she passed she had
not even a centime.
; Signa Maria added that she had had some hope of seeing her doctor or her
friend P. pass, because they lived in the neighbourhood, but that she had
never thought of Linda. When the waiter had brought her the papers she
was much disturbed, and a sudden and permanent headache came on. She
said she had never gone into a shop without money before, and that she
would never enter that Caffe' again.
As there was nothing more to be learned from the conversation of the
two, and as no harm could now be done by telling them, I now informed
them that I had known all about the incident before. Signa Maria, who was
used to such things, and was still feeling annoyance, was very little surprised ;
but it was very different with Signa Linda, who could not understand how I
knew she would pass this place at this time. I pointed out to them, how
ever, that the realisation was perhaps not quite complete ; for Signa Maria
ought to have eaten the cake, and I had not observed whether she had done
so. But both of them assured me that she had.
[I have not related this conversation in detail for the sake of making my
story more amusing, but for the sake of stating all the facts known to me,
which may be useful when the case comes to be discussed, and may throw
some light upon the states of consciousness of the two persons, immediately
after the event.] The same day, at about 3.30 p.m. , I went to see Signa Maria,
whom I found in bed with the headache which had come on at the Caffé. I
stopped it by suggestion and hypnotisation. The Elvira personality profited
by this hypnosis to manifest and ask if all had happened as she had pre
dicted. She has a childish character, and often causes misunderstandings
between us and the other mediumistic personalities ; she showed much satis
faction, and said "Now you see how exactly I am able to tell you things."
Signa Maria was still slightly surprised at the occurrence, but said I must be
mistaken in supposing that the event had been pre-announced in some dream
i of hers ; because she said she did not remember anything about it, though
she remembered the other dreams quite well.
Although this amnesia can be easily explained by the fact that the dream
had happened two months before, it draws our attention to the probable
existence of a particular psychological problem, related to the recollection of
premonitory communications. In fact, in the experiments with telepathic
dreams, in which Signa Maria acted as agent, we discover a striking tendency
to amnesia (for the supraliminal consciousness of Signa Maria) of the tele-
pathically transferred images. Therefore it may not be out of place to try
to discover if anomalies of memory may not also be present in cases of pre
monition, although these phenomena differ, in so far that in them the subject
apparently acts as percipient instead of agent ; in reality they may be per
472 F. W. H. Myers.
fectly analogous in cases like the present, where the premonition (taking the
word in its strictest sense) may be only apparent. and the realisation may be
due to telepathic action on the part of the subject. Thus an accurate study
of anomalies of memory may perhaps some day furnish us with data for dis
tinguishing premonitions realised by the subject's supernormal activity from
those (if such there be) which are realised independently of the subject.
I remark in passing that in the case of the arrival of an unknown travel
ler, when it was more likely that Signa Maria was percipient, instead of tele
pathic agent, she perfectly remembered the premonition directly upon its
realisation. In the other cases, where the premonition occurred in somnaui -
bulism, followed, as a rule, by amnesia, all necessary data are wanting.
Taking into consideration the separate particulars of the premonition
after its completion by the last information given by Elvira ; dividing them
into two groups as they were or were not realisable or capable of being known
beforehand by the normal personality of Signa Maria ; and at the same time
separating such as were realised from such as were not, we can epitomise
them in the following table. The particulars which were partly realised, or
partly non-realised, are enclosed between parenthesis.
Particulars which Sign"
Maria might have real
ised, or have been
already acquainted with
in a normal manner.
Realised.
/The forgetting of the
i purse.
Impression of heat.
Going into the Cafre.
Ordering glass, etc.
I Confusion; idea of leav
ing earring, hope that
an acquaintance might
Not realised.
(Order of glass of
Marsala.)
(Extreme merriment).
V
Particulars which Signa
M. could neither have
foreknown nor realised
in a normal way.
(Merriment).
Aspect of waiter.
Passing of friend, and
coincidence that at that
moment M. was look
ing out of window.
Accidental circum-
stance that friend had
money.
Presence in Caffé of
other persons not seen
in dream.
It is clear that those particulars which were realised, and which are
placed in the upper group, do not add to the evidence for the premonition ;
it is proved only by those in the second group. However the table shows
that the particulars of the upper, invalid group had no more tendency to
complete realization than those in the lower.
Indeed, if the content of the premonition had been more closely connected
with Signa Maria's normal activity than with that of extraneous persons, she
ought to have preferred Marsala to Cyprus, and she would have laughed with
her friend much more openly than she really did. But when later I asked
Signa Maria if she had hesitated between Cyprus and something else, she
The Subliminal Self. 473
said no, because she generally took Cyprus ; she added (what I knew before)
that she did not much like Marsala.
As I before remarked, even the present case does not help to demonstrate
the precognition of things altogether independent of the subject ; the latter's
subliminal activity would explain all. It may have set in action not only
the subject herself, but by means of telepathy, her friend also. The follow
ing circumstances would seem to support this hypothesis.
1. The first act of the realisation, the forgetting of the purse, occurred in
a state of abstraction, and a state of abstraction is one of the natural fields in
thich the subliminal activity displays itself.
2. It was Signa Maria's desire to see the oleographs in Prosperini's
window which led her to take the way past the CafK Nazionale, and, as she
told me, this wish came into her mind suddenly. She also declared that she
had never felt the wish before, although she was often in the neighbourhood
and frequently passed Prosperini's shop. This is analogous to a subliminal
3. The heat which Signa Maria felt, and which induced the wish to enter
the Caffé dell' Arena (she told me afterwards that she was covered with per
spiration), although explicable by her rapid walk, was perhaps exaggerated
when it is remembered that the day in question was not very warm. 1 This
permits us to suspect that her impression of heat and perspiration may have
resulted in part from a self-suggestion.
4. The act of entering the Caffé Nazionale after having renounced the
idea of entering the Caffé dell' Arena was performed without premeditation,
because in the first place Signa Maria explained that after she had passed
the Caffe1 dell' Arena she did not remember that there was another Caffé a
little farther on ; she had forgotten its existence ; and also because, as I
myself remarked, she seemed, when entering the place, to be yielding to a
sudden impulse, which recalls so-called automatic actions determined by
subliminal stimuli
5. Signa Linda was not induced to leave her house and walk past the Caffe1
by any reason clearly independent of presumable telepathic action, but
rather by an impulse which sprang up with the apparent spontaneity which
often accompanies telepathic impulses.
But on the other hand we have two circumstances which appear to con
tradict the hypothesis that the realisation was determined telepathically by
1. Although the passing of Signa Linda may be attributed to telepathic
action, it is very difficult not to see a determining cause in the circum
stances which preceded her action (i.e., the commission to make a dress
for a lady in the neighbourhood), or, at the least, an almost necessary
auxiliary, to the telepathic action ; and it is still more difficult to suppose
that these very circumstances should have been the outcome of a sub
consciously elaborated plan carried out by telepathic action on the part of
Signa Maria.
impulse.
' On the 31st May, 1894, the Astronomical Observatory of Padua registered a tem
perature of 18 6deg. (Celsius) at 9 a,m. ; and 21*0deg. at 3 p,m.
474 F. W. H. Myers.
2. As I remarked before, the particulars of the premonition directly
realisable by Signa Maria did not show any tendency to be fulfilled with
greater precision than those which depended on the action of a person un
concerned in the matter.
Observe that May 30th and 31st, the two days between which
Elvira hesitated, were both of them days on which Signa Linda actually
passed the cafe1 in question.
P. 212.
Premonitory dream of the visit of a commercial traveller who asked for a
subscription to a novel. Percipient, Maria Manzini.
Signorina Maria Manzini at my request, kept an account of the dreams
which occurred in her ordinary sleep. Some were remembered spon
taneously in the morning and some in her next somnambulic state. In the
latter case I suggested to her that she should remember and record them
after waking.
I think the following case was remembered in somnambulism, but this is
of no consequence, because Signa Maria, following my advice, recorded not
only the date of dreams, but also the date and the hour when she wrote
them down. In any case the present dream was recorded before its fulfil
ment.
This is what I find in the record of Signa Maria's dreams :—
"Night of March 26th-27th, 1894."
"I dreamt that the door bell rang on the S. Pietro side of the house.1 I
went to open and found a tall man about forty years old, with greyish
trousers and a darker overcoat. He was very polite, and asked if I would
subscribe to the issue of a novel, saying that afterwards I should have a
pair of earrings as a prize. I said no, because I thought it was an impos
ture."
March 27th, 1894, 11 p.m.
I did not read the account of this dream till after its realization, but am
perfectly certain that Signa Maria told it to me directly, and I also dis
tinctly recollect that when Signa Maria related the realization a few days
later, she said I ought to remember her preceding dream ; and I remember
also that I not only recalled it, but that I looked at once at the record to see
if it had been written down according to rule. I found that it was correct
and that it agreed with the viva voce story. Besides though Signa Maria may
not always be diligent in recording dreams she hardly remembers, she is
very careful to put the exact date, and is therefore quite certain that the
dream occurred either in the night of March 26th-27th, or at most (suppos
ing the case to have been complicated by a paramnesia which displaced
the dream in time) on March 27th, at 9 p.m. ; about which time, as can be
seen from my journal of the somnambulic experiments, Signa Maria was in
somnambulism in my presence.
1 Signa Maria's house has two doors, one in the Via S. Pietro, and the other-
turned towards the river Bacchiglione.
The Subliminal Self. 475
On the evening of March 31st, i.e. four days after the dream, Signa M.
told me that on that day about 3 p.m. the visit of which she had dreamed had
taken place. Everything coincided ; the entrance of the person by the door
towards S. Pietro, his age, his insinuating manners, the colour of his
trousers and overcoat, and the object of his visit.
I called her mother, and asked her to describe the visit with all possible
details ; meanwhile I took the following notes : "The person came twice ;
the first time about 11 a.m., when Maria was out. Signora Annetta (her
mother) was alone in the house. The visitor had very pleasant manners,
• and was about thirty-five years old (Sign" Maria thought forty). He had
a box covered with black cloth with him, such as is used by commercial
travellers. He said he came to show them a novelty. In order to get rid
of him, Signora Annetta said that Signorina Maria was not at home ; he
replied that he would return, and Signora Annetta told him to come at 2 p.m.
At 2 p.m. he returned and rang at the door on the S. Pietro side. Signora
Annetta opened to him, and says that when he entered the room Maria
seemed much astonished (Maria said at once that she was astonished at
recognising him). He proposed that they should subscribe to the issue of
a novel ; there were to be prizes when the issue was finished ; two pictures,
or a small organ, or a pair of earrings. In his box were the organ and an
alarum, as samples, and he had with him, but not in the box, samples of
the earrings, of the frames, and two oleographs between pasteboards.
Luigia Monti and Linda Bigoni were also present. Maria refused the
offers. When they and the man were gone, Maria remarked with surprise
that she had already dreamt of the scene with all its details, i.e., as far as
the man was concerned. Signora Annetta added that from girlhood she
also had frequently dreamed of coming events.
March 31st 1894, 9.30 p.m. (written in the presence of Annetta and
Maria). It was necessary to prove two things, before the case could be
supposed to be evidential. First, that the visit was real, and not an odd
hallucination of the senses or memory, and secondly, that the man had not
made the tour of Padua, offering his merchandise, many days before the
dream ; in which case Signa Maria might have become aware of it in some
way or other, and thus have originated the dream herself.
In order to clear up the first point, I went on the following day (April 1st,
about 6.30) to see Signa Linda Bigoni and asked her to tell me all about the
visit at which she had been present. She replied that she had gone to see
' Maria the day before, about 2.30, while the man was there, and she con
firmed all the details about the object of his visit, his remarks, the things
he had with him, his politeness, his age, and the colour of his clothes.
He had made the same proposition to her as to Maria. As she had arrived
after him, she could not say by which door he had entered ; but she said
he had left before her, and had gone out by the kitchen door, towards
the river. On being questioned, she replied that she had not seen Sigoa
Maria since the visit. Before leaving her, I requested her, if the man
should come to her house, or if she should meet him in the street, to ask
him on what day he had come to Padua ; which she promised to do.
The same evening I went back to Signa Maria and before telling her of
my talk with Signorina Linda, I questioned her and her mother again.
476 F. W. H. Myers.
Signorina Maria said she did not remember by which door the man had
gone out, or rather, she had paid no attention, but her mother said she was
certain that he had gone out by the kitchen door, because he had seen some
one enter that way, and on leaving had said that as there was a door there
also he would go out by it. The mother did not know however whether he
or Signorina Linda- B. had left first, but Signorina Maria was sure he had
gone- away first, because afterwards she had continued her conversation with
Signorina Linda about their own affairs, and this conversation, begun before
he left, had prevented her noticing by which door he quitted the house.
Both then said they remembered Signorina Linda B.'s coming at about
2.30 while the man was there, and that he had come before 2 and stayed
nearly an hour.
Thus all the testimony is in accordance, and no doubt remains that the
event with all its details really happened.
On the evening of April 18th, Signa Maria told me that her friend,
Signa Linda B., had something to tell me, but in order to keep her promise
she would tell it only to me. Signorina Miiria said that Linda B. was coming
to see her on the morrow, when I could meet her.
The following day (April 19th) I went to see Signa Maria at the time
fixed, and found Linda B. at the house. The latter told me she had met the
man in the street ; that he had recognised her and had renewed his offer.
She took advantage of this to ask him when he had arrived in Padua, and
he said he had come on March 29th, and that he had not visited Padua
before for several years.
This proves that the dream occurred two days before the arrival of the
person implicated, and that consequently it could not have resulted from a
mere sensorial impression of Signorina Maria's.
Of such a type as this ;— gradually evolved, slightly inexact, and
altogether trivial,—are all the predictions given through Elvira. I
do not think, however, that their triviality affords in itself any clear
indication as to their origin. They are the attempts of an intelligence
which, whether embodied or unembodied, is not much above a child's
level, to prove a fact of the highest importance,—namely, the possibility
of foreseeing future events. In comparison with the value of the result
thus aimed at, the actual incidents by which it may be attained matter
little. It is of greater interest to have a pedlar's visit foretold, if only
that visit could not have been foreseen by any ordinary intelligence,
than to have, say, a death foretold, if we suspect that that more impres
sive prophecy may have helped to work its own fulfilment.
Since Dr. Ermacora's cases were in our hands he has published in
the Bivista di Studi Psichici for July, 1895, a curiously parallel series
of trifling telepathic incidents, mixed with premonition, obtained
through automatic writing by Signor M. Bonatti, a painter known to
him. This case, of which I here print a partial translation, tends, as
far as it goes, to show that the secondary personality in those other
cases is probably identical with Maria Manzini herself.
The Subliminal Self. 477
P. 245.
Telepathic Perceptions by means of Automatic Writing.
By M. Bonatti.
Translated from the Rivista di Studi Psichici, July, 1895.
I began to write automatically with the hand of a medium resting on mine,
but soon I was able to write alone. The communications were at first of a
spiritualistic character, and the writing was a fair imitation of that of the
defunct who appeared to be present, and whom I had known in life.
I However, I was acquainted with their writing. I was generally advised to
work and study much ; my counsellor was interested in my moral life, and
was a more attentive friend than any I have found in flesh and blood. Soon
after I was obsessed by a lying and frivolous, but not wicked, personality,
who displayed a great passion for art. This personality was only useful to me
on that point, giving me advice, and, by means of automatic drawing, greatly
developing my memory of drawing and powers of conception. I did not
write for several months, in order to free myself of this obsession. Mean
while I enlarged my knowledge of psychical matters ; and when I began to
write again I succeeded in convincing the communicating personality that it
might be an emanation from my own subconscious self. After this it called
itself my Secondo.
I examined this Secondo to see if it possessed any supernormal powers,
and discovered some. It continued to give me useful advioe, and strengthened
my love of art.
When I write automatically I do not know what the communication will
be ; sometimes I guess after a few words, but I often guess wrongly, and
write something altogether unlike my guess.
I enjoy perfectly good health, and am able to endure constant outdoor
exercise without fatigue. As far as I know, I am psychically normal. I retain
all my normal faculties when writing automatically.
[Signor Bonatti begins by giving an account of telepathic communications
transmitted to him by sleeping and dreaming persons at a greater or less
distance, and revealed in automatic writing. We then come to monitions of
actual or impending events.]
The following is copied from my journal.
October XUh, 1892, 7.30 p.m.
, I write "Go to Pedrocchi's, because M. O. is there."
I wanted to see my friend M. O., whom I find in the evening at the Caffe'
Pedrocchi, except on certain fixed evenings when he cannot come. This was
one of these evenings. I went and found my friend, who had been
unexpectedly liberated from his engagement.
October 21st, 7.30 p.m.
I write, " M. 0. is now mentioning your name to Sig^ R." Two hours
after I meet M. O., who says he spoke of me to Sig^ R. about 7.30, apropos
of a letter which he had received that evening, and which contained a
reference to me. I had not seen him all the day, knew nothing of the letter,
nor that he was with Sig"a R. when I was writing.
2 m
478 F. W. H. Myers.
November 2nd, 4 p.m.
I write, "Ermacora has arrived by the tramway." I knew that Dr.
Ermacora had left Padua this morning and that he would return during the
day, but I did not know where he was going, nor when the trains came in.
This evening Dr. Ermacora told me that he came from the station by
tramway, and that he got off it about 4 p.m. in the Piazza Garibaldi. I had
not left my study for many hours, and no one who could have seen Dr.
Ermacora arrive had been to see me. I cannot hear the tramway nor see
the Piazza Garibaldi from my study, and there are no windows on the street,
through which I could have heard anything.
February 20th, 1893.
I write, " X. has received the money from C. I."
I wrote this communication, which much interested me, two days after X.
had received the money. I had had no information, and no conversation with
X. , with whom I had disagreed, and who had reasons for keeping silence, as
he wished to retain the part of the money which should have come to me. I
had been long awaiting the payment of this debt, but I could not even
approximately guess that C. I. would pay it just then.
Februaiy 26th, 1 p.m.
I write, "I am poisoning myself. Think of me." The writing begins
with a name I cannot decipher, but which I guess.
March 19th.—To-day a friend of the person whose name I guessed told me
spontaneously that that person had attempted to poison herself several days
ago. On the 26th, when I had the communication, she was at Bologna, and
made the attempt later at Rovigo. I do not know if it was the first attempt,
nor, if it was so, whether she had decided to do it when I wrote. I had no
reason to suppose that A. G. would wish to take her own life. Unfortunately
I have had no more communications from her which might have given me
more details.
March 13Wi.—I write, "Shall come to you before Saturday to pay you.
M. and S."
[March 22nd, I learned to-day that M. and S. could have paid me before
the term fixed by the communication, as they had received the money, part
of which was owing to me, before that date. I had had no reason to suppose
they could have been in a position to pay me before ;—could not even have
guessed it.]
March 17th. —I write, " Run to the Club. Go." I have not been to the
Club for more than a month, and intended to go to bed at once. My friend,
A. L., who rarely goes to the Club, had this evening assisted at a conference
on Guido Bonatti. Association of ideas made him think of me, and he went
to the Club believing he would find me there. I obeyed the telepathic order,
and thus discovered what had caused it.
March 20th.—The automatic writing confirmed the communication of the
13th inst. [As I have written above, I only discovered the truth on the 22nd
inst.]
March 25th.—The automatic writing tells me about the money of which I
wrote on the 13th and 20th insts. I understand that I shall be paid on
The Subliminal Self. 479
Tuesday. I wrote to R., one of the persons concerned, on the 27th, hoping
to be paid through his intervention. He replied the same day, " I am still
unwell, and to-morrow [Tuesday] I must go out of town." [So that he could
not pay before Wednesday.]
Instead of this, he did not go out of town on Tuesday, but came on that
day to pay me, as the communication had foretold.
Murch 28th, 10 a.m. —I write, " You will receive a visit shortly." Twenty
minutes later I had a visitor. At that time of day I receive nobody uninvited,
and this visit was quite unexpected.
March 28th, Tuesday. —To-day I wrote that a person would come on
Saturday, bringing money from X.
April 1st. Saturday. —This evening the automatic writing told me that R.
had been looking for me at 4.30, to give me " Carte valori, 40 Lire."
Several days later I learned that R. was really looking for me on Saturday
at 4.30, to give me money. He had only 20 lire with him, but had hoped at
first to give me 40. I think I had no reason to believe that R. would pay me
40 lire, neither more nor less.
April 7th, 5.45 p.m.—I wrote, "Girls will come to the studio to-day.
They will visit you."
6.15 p.m.—A girl has just come, as I was going out. She had decided
just before to come and ask me for some information. Contrary to my habit
I had remained longer in my studio. Generally nobody comes after five, as I
leave at that hour.
May 8th. Morning. —A communication partly illegible. "You will
receive . . . Ang—— Go to-day, which will tell you about M.,
because she has been talking to him."
Ang Go—— is at Venice. Many days ago I had charged her to say
certain things to M. if she met him. He lives at Venice. On this evening
(the 8th) I received a card from Ang Go , relating her conversation with
M. whom she had met by chance. After the "You will receive to-day" in
the automatic writing, there are several attempts at a word. Now I know all
about it, I can see that the word is meant for "postcard."
May 16th. —Several unimportant things. " We shall meet to-morrow. I
shall come to you at (not clear whether 9.30 or 11) and will stop till one."
Communication begins with the name of G N .
May 17th.—Before I wrote yesterday, G N had told me she could
not come to me to-day. However, she came at 11, and at once told me she
could only stay till one. She generally stops till 2.30 or 3.
February 5th, 1894. Venice—(I lived at Padua while receiving the
previous communications). The automatic writing informs me that my
mother at Padua has had something the matter with her hand. [About
twenty days later I verified this. No one had told me of it. ]
February 6th. Venice.—"You will have a letter to-morrow." Having
just written the above information about my mother, I understand that the
letter will be from her.
On the 18th inst. I again wrote that my mother was suffering from her
hand. I had not yet verified the communication of the 5th. After writing,
2 m 2
480 F. W. H. Myers.
my hand automatically turned over the leaves of my writing book till the
above communication about the letter came under my eyes. I had paid no
attention to it at the time, and now looked over my mother's letters. I found
one with the postal stamp, "Padua, 5th February, 1894, 5 p.m. —Venice,
5th February, 1894, 7 p.m." I certainly received it on the morning of the
6th, as I never get letters in the evening.
Unfortunately I have not kept all the original writings before January,
1893, I have preserved only those which were verified. This is due to my
then inexperience, for I thought it useless to preserve unverifiable com
munications. I remember that till January, 1893, false communications were
rare, and the unverifiable ones were numerous.
From the beginning of 1893 till February 5th, 1894, against twenty-seven
communications verified, I have recorded eight false ones, eighteen which I
could not verify, five which were wholly or partly correct, but where I am
not certain that the information may not have reached me in some normal but
unnoticed manner, and two which were correct but not exact.
I reckon that from October, 1892, till January, 1893, there may have been
five false announcements. Thus there may have been altogether thirteen
false communications.
I conclude from my personal experiences that the principal cause of
failure is the intervention of the normal consciousness, which occurs most
easily when the writing is slow and illegible, or when the communication is
desired. I do not remember ever having received a truthful message when I
wished for it. The true telepathic cases were always spontaneous, and
improved by the exercise of the faculty. A true message was nearly always
followed by other true ones ; then came a false one, which caused discourage
ment, and initiated an annoying series of falsehoods, till another success
restored confidence.
I have observed that confidence is the best condition for obtaining
psychical phenomena. ,
Signor Bonatti is a friend of Dr. Ermacora, who has been sometimes
present when he was writing automatically ; on one or two occasions when
the writing was of telepathic origin. Signor Bonatti cannot obtain much
confirmation, partly on account of the lapse of time, and partly because the
supposed agents are persons whom he has lost sight of. In the case of
November 2nd, Dr. Ermacora well remembers that on the same eveningI
Signor Bonatti asked him if he had really arrived at the hour mentioned,
and that he had done so. Signor Bonatti did not at first recognise the
importance of controlling his experiences, and was perhaps afraid of exciting
the derision of the persons concerned. He has however kept and sent the two
letters concerning the cases of March 25th and May 8th, 1893, which are
partly translated below. The second, though dated May 7th, was really-
posted at Venice on the 8th, as the post-mark proves. First letter :—
Dear Angblo,—X. wrote me yesterday that you have received my part
for the work for the Salon. I hope you are better. I only heard yesterday
that you were ill. Pardon my troubling you.—Yours affectionately,
M. [Bonatti.]
1 This phrase is thus corrected by Dr. Ermacora, after reference to his notes, from
the Italian account.
The Subliminal Self. 481
March Wth (?), 1893.
Second letter. Reply :—
Dear 51. [Bonatti],—I am still unwell, but must go out of town to
morrow. Manzoni came just now, and gave me 90 lire for you ; that is the
last which the Ignoranti destined for me. I cannot go to M.'s before
Wednesday, and will come to your study on Wednesday afternoon and hand
you the 90 lire. Angeao.
(This reply was written in pencil on the back of the first letter).
Third letter :—
Venice, May 7th, 1893.
I found M. and told him what you charged me to say. He told me he had
written to you before leaving, and that he would write again and send you his
portrait-Yours, Angelina.
(Post-mark Venice, May 8th).
In the cases thus far quoted there has been some ground for
supposing that the prediction came either from the percipient's own
mind, or from some other incarnate mind, or from a mind which, even
if unembodied, is scarcely distinguishable from the percipient's own. I
proceed to a few cases where the warning seems attributable to some
recognised discarnate spirit.
And here I would begin by referring the reader to the cases
published in Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 170, under the title of
" Indications of Continued Terrene Knowledge on the part of
Phantasms of the Dead."
If the departed do indeed in some, perhaps relatively rare, cases
preserve a certain power of following the earthly career of those dear to
them (and we have little evidence of a knowledge on their part wider
than this), then it is probable that they will foresee both some events
which we on earth can foresee, and some which we cannot. In the
paper just referred to, cases G 213, 214, 215, 216, 219, and 221 (a
collective case) suggest a departed friend foretelling an approaching
death,—usually a death already recognised as imminent by observers on
earth.
In another case (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 349), where warnings
were given as to the dangers run by a secret conspirator, no precognition,
properly speaking, was needed, but only a knowledge of the young
man's actual rashness. So, again, in the following narrative, a
knowledge, on the part of a deceased person, of the concealed inten
tions of the Bank Managers would be enough to prompt the warning.
P. 331.
[This case is virtually made first hand by Dr. Hastings' letter.]
The following story was told me by Miss Graham herself, also told by
her to Professor Barrett, who met her at our house. She was an American
482 F. W. H. Myers.
M.D., a woman between 30 and 40 years of age, in full vigour of practical
life, whose perfect healthfulness of mind and body impressed all who met
her. No one could have been less of a visionary. Descended from a line of
medical ancestors, she was a marked instance of hereditary tendency. A*
soon as she learned to write her name she added M.D. to it, and in her
childish play was always either doctor or nurse to her playmates. Her
father was unable to give her a medical education, and possibly unwilling
also, but she took this matter into her own hands. Beginning as a teacher
in a school, she went on as nurse in an insane asylum, and then to make
money faster, learnt book-keeping, and went as clerk in a merchant's office,
where she worked steadily for eight years, until she had saved enough
for her college career, through which she passed with extraordinary
success.
She had put these precious savings into a bank in Boston started on
philanthropic principles, to give good interest to women. There was no
suspicion about the bank, guaranteed as it was by well-known names. But
one morning Miss Graham woke hearing a voice say, "Miss Graham, take
your money out of the Bank." Going to sleep again, she woke in the morn
ing inclined to treat it as a dream. She quite believed in these voices, from
frequent experience, but came within a recent legal definition of sanity, by not
obeying th ir suggestions unless otherwise commending themselves to her
judgment. Accordingly, instead of going to the bank, she fulfilled an engage
ment in another part of the town with her dressmaker. Here she was obliged
to wait, finding herself in the same room with another lady who seemed deter-
mined to talk to her. Bather impatient at being delayed, Miss Graham
was not socially inclined, till the stranger suddenly asked, "Do you
know anything of Howe's Bank ? " When she replied with interest,
" Only that I have an account there." Her interest deepened as the lady
proceeded to give details about the unsafe situation of the bank, with which
her husband was connected, winding up with saying, " I felt compelled,
almost against my will, to tell you all this, and must beg you to say nothing
about it for a few weeks."
Miss Graham decided that she would lose no time in making herself safe,
and only just succeeded in going home for her bank-book, and drawing out
her deposit, before the hour for closing. The bank stopped on the foUmcing
day.
The labours of 10 years would have gone for nothing without this timely
warning.
Twice during her worn at a London hospital, Miss Graham heard the
voice. One night she had gone to her lodgings utterly wearied out, and just
as she laid her head on the pillow, sho heard the voice " Mary Graham,
such and such a case (describing it accurately) has just entered the hospital."
Miss Graham had gone straight from the hospital to her lodgings.and had left
no such a case, one so rare that she had never met with it in any previous
experience. She was, moreover, so worn out that she went to sleep. In an
hour or so afterwards, she was awakened by the voice repeating the informa
tion. Being somewhat rested, she rose, and on arriving at the hospital
found the case at the most critical stage. It had come in shortly after she
left the hospital.
The Subliminal Self. 483
On another occasion she was unable to obey the voice, and on reaching
the hospital, found she had just missed another case of extreme interest.
These cases seem worth recording, and I give them as they were related
to us by Miss Graham herself.
September 3rd, 1883. Annie E- Rnlt*y.
Boston, December 13th, 1883.
Regarding the Howe Bank. First let me say that Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe was never in any way connected with that Institution. The Mrs.
Howe who was, is now in jail, and I have the sympathy for her to believe that
' she did not mean to cheat any one, but her brain and mathematics were not
sufficient to show her that there must be an end of her operations, and that
some one must suffer in that end. With others I got into the affair. I was
one of the late comers, so that I had received no interest. All I had put in I
consequently lost. I went with Dr. Grafuim when site drew her money, and
might have taken mine, but did not. She believed she had had a warniig from
her mother. Nothing of the kind had ever come to me. It is hard for me
to believe evil intentions on the part of any one with whom I have dealings,
so I trusted the managers, and lost.
The voice which Dr. Graham heard saying, "For a little while only,"
was not during her sickness, but just after she had got settled in her room.
A few weeks before her death.
C. E. Hastings.
Dr. Caroline E. Hastings is the professor of anatomy (to a mixed class)
at a medical college in Boston, so much esteemed that she was asked if her
bust might be placed in the college. She chose instead to have a library for
the students' reference, which was done.
Her confirmation of Dr. Mary Graham's story is complete. It was Dr.
Graham's sister who told me that Dr. Hastings was with her when she went
to the bank, and also about the last voice.
A. E. Ridley.
In the narrative next to be quoted, also, a knowledge of the expelled
lodger's actual intentions would suffice to show the need of warning.
This incident is noticeable from the fact that the phantom was seen by
two persons. It is taken from a long psychical record written for
Dr. Hodgson by a lady who has had many similar experiences, all of
„ which she regards as veridical, although most of them cannot now be
shown to have been more than subjective. This is not the only case
where a psychical history of mainly subjective aspect has received at
some points the support of a second witness for experiences resembling
those which the same percipient claims to have undergone in solitude.
P. 215. Mrs. Norah Gridley.
306, Rookery Building, Chicago,
August 19th, 1890.
The following statement corrected by my mother is true in every
particular.
Queena O. V. Gridley.
484 F. W. H. Myers.
[Revised from notes made by me in April, 1890.—R.H.]
In the month of September, 1889, my young daughter and I were
occupying a room in a house on the west side. I had no intention of leaving
the house then—didn't know when I should go.
Near 12 p.m., midnight, I woke suddenly ; my daughter at the same
moment made an exclamation. I gave a shriek almost appalling. My
daughter said, " Mother, what's the matter ? " and further said, "Mother,
some one is standing at my head." I replied, "Oh no, go to sleep if
you can."
But I did see something,—I saw the figure of a young man clothed in
white and so transparent that I could see the articles of furniture through
the garments, and a voice said distinctly, "Mother, go away from here,"
and for some time after, if I found myself dozing, the same voice would say,
"Mother, don't go to sleep." At that momenta bright light illuminated
the rooms. I saw both doors, one in to the hall, and the other to the
back room, standing wide open. I knew they had been locked the previous
evening. I arose and lit the gas,—I then found both doors closed and
locked.
I was so frightened, and the pulsation of my heart so distinct, I know it
could have been heard some distance away,—I did not sleep. I arose earlier
than usual in the morning, related event of the night to my landlady, who
sneered at it and said, " Don't be foolish, you're crazy."
Before I had finished the recital, my daughter awoke, and said, "Mother,
do you know what happened in the night ? " "I guess nothing happened, P
what was it?" (The landlady was still listening). Her reply was, "You
did know, mother, for your heart beat so violently that it sounded like a
hammer and shook the bed."
Then I said, " Why didn't you speak to me about that ? "
Her reply was, " I thought that you thought if I knew that you were
afraid, we'd both go to pieces."
I then said, " What did you see ? "
"I saw my brother at my head dressed in white. His clothes were
glistening like satin, though they were transparent, and I could see right
through them." (The figure was translucent to me also).
" Did he say anything t "
"You must go away from here, mother."
I turned to my landlady and asked her what she had to say after this
corroborative statement.
" I think you're both idiots ! "
(My daughter was 16 years of age.)
Next day I was out working, reporting for a paper, and going along the
South side I saw a furnished room to rent. I enquired price and said I
would come next day to take possession. I told my daughter on returning
to get ready, pack up, etc.
My daughter said I was crazy.
The day after we left and took possession of new room.
About ten days later I called to get some things left at my previous
lodgings. The landlady said, " You don't know what an awful thing
happened the night after you went away,-—a man raised the window and
The Subliminal Self. 485
entered your room. A woman occupying the aforesaid room said, 'What do
you want here 1 Get out ! ' The man left, saying, 'I don't want anything
of you.'"
The woman described the man as " short, thickset, very dark."
During my stay in that house, a man answering this description had
failed to pay his room-rent. He and the landlady had had much trouble
and hard talk. She couldn't get him out. The landlady asked my advice.
I advised her how to take legal proceedings. She did, and the man left,
saying as he departed, " You were never smart enough to get me out of my
. room ; it was that black devil downstairs ! "
The woman who occupied the room after I left was a domestic. The
landlady was Mrs. Brown, Des Moines, Iowa.
With this case I will close my series of those precognitions which I
regard as in various ways explicable without postulating any direct
knowledge of the future. The group to which we have now to address
ourselves presents our central problem in a direeter form.
I do not, indeed, assume that we have come here to any real break
or. discontinuity in the nature of premonitions themselves. If the
premonitions already recorded have been due to some kind of inference
from a knowledge of existing facts wider than our own, it is possible
enough that some or all of the premonitions yet to be mentioned have
also been due to inference of some supernormal kind. The break which
I find here is a purely subjective one. It is simply that I can no longer
suggest any plausible explanation of my cases which does not involve
some perception of the future more direct than any which our ordinary
minds enjoy. I see no way in which intelligence of a common human
type, working upon however full a knowledge of present facts, could
arrive at some at least of the predictions to be now quoted. It does
not, at any rate, seem worth while to strain that explanation further.
It may still hold good, but I prefer to throw my remaining evidential
cases into convenient groups, and to leave the reader to explain each
group as he will.
First, then, I will take a series of cases which recall and extend
, the cases of promnesia given in my last chapter. In ordinary
promnesia, as before explained, there is no proof that the incident
which seems to have been already experienced has been so in fact ;
since it is only by the fresh experience that the supposed memory of
the former one is revived, nor does the incident last long enough to
allow of any test of the reality of the previous knowledge of it. It
is plain that there might be two stages evidentially beyond this point.
In the first place, the promnesic incident may be sufficiently
complex to allow of some test during its progress ; and in the second
place, the dream, or whatever it is, in which the future incident is
foreseen may have been at once remembered, without waiting for
486 F. W. H. Myers.
the arrival of the incident to awaken the memory, and may have been
related to other persons beforehand.
Of this second and more advanced stage we have many examples ;
cases, namely, where a person undergoing some definite incident
states that that incident had previously in some way been presented
to him, and sometimes that he had mentioned this presentiment to
others, or had recorded it in some way before the event.
Now as regards cases of this type, especially where the pre
cognition is alleged to have been conveyed in a dream, the following
words of Edmund Gurney's (Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I., p. 298)
deserve careful attention.
"The first objection to dreams," he says, "as evidence for transferred
impressions of distant conditions or events, is this, that dreams being often
somewhat dim and shapeless things, subsequent knowledge of the conditions
or events may easily have the effect of giving body and definiteness to the
recollection of a dream. When the actual facts are learnt, a faint amount
of resemblance may often suggest a past dream, and set the mind on the
track of trying accurately to recall it. This very act involves a search for
details, for something tangible and distinct ; and the real features and
definite incidents which are now present in the mind, in close association
with some general scene or fact which actually figured in the dream, will be
apt to be unconsciously read back into the dream- they make part of the •
original, of which the mind conceives the dream to have been a picture ; and
the picture, when evoked in memory, will only too probably include details
drawn from the original. After we have once realised the matter in its full
distinctness, it becomes almost impossible to recall with due indistinctness
the distant and shadowy suggestion of it. Dreams in this way resemble
objects seen in the dusk ; which begin by puzzling the eye, but which, whui
once we know or think we know what they are, seem quite unmistakable
and even full of familiar detail. For our purposes, therefore, it is of prime
importance that the dreams shall be told in detail to some one on whose
memory we can rely ; or, better still, written down, or in some way acted on,
at the time, and before the confirmation arrives." 1
Bearing in mind this caution, (which refers also, by the way, to
several cases already quoted), and omitting almost all cases where
1 In a paper in Mind, for April, 1888, further developed in a "Report on
Phantasms and Presentiments," (Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical
Research. March, 1889), Professor Royce, of Harvard, presses the caution which
Edmund Gurney's words inculcate into a further hypothesis (American Proceedings,
p. 366). ' This hypothesis is," he says, " that in certain people, under certain exciting
circumstances, there occur what I shall henceforth call Pseudo-Presentiments, i.e. , more
or less instantaneous and irresistible hallucinations of memory, which make it seem to
one that something which now excites or astonishes him has been pre-figured in a
recent dream, or in the form of some other warning, although this seeming is wholly
unfounded, and although the supposed prophecy really succeeds its own fulfilment."
In support of this thesis, Professor Royce quotes two records of insane cases from
Kraepelin, and in a supplement a case from Orschansky, (a fourth case, p. 566-7,
The Subliminal Self. 4S7
the premonitory dream was not mentioned or acted upon beforehand,
we may proceed with a group of cases, relatively the most numerous of
all, in which no explanation based on ordinary foresight will satisfy the
facts, while yet there is seldom any indication of the agency of any
spirit beyond the percipient's own. The general scheme is as fol
lows :—The percipient, usually in dream, but sometimes by voice
or crystal-vision, is shown a scene or is made aware of a fact in the
future—generally in the near future—which scene afterwards is
witnessed or which fact comes true. The scene is generally one from
his own coming life, and is often trivial in character.
The following case was sent to me by Mrs. Atlay, wife of the late
Bishop of Hereford.
P. 179.
Mrs. Atlay writes to me as follows :—
March, 1893.
My dream was as follows :—
I dreamt that the Bishop being from home, we were unable to have
family prayers as usual in the chapel, but that I read them in the large
hall of the Palace, out of which, on one side, a door opens into the dining
room. In my dream, prayers being ended, I left the hall, opened the
dining room door, and there saw, to my horror, standing between the
table and the side-board, an enormous pig. The dream was very vivid, and
amused me much. The Bishop being from home, when dressed I went down
into the hall to read prayers. The servants had not come in, so I told my
governess and children, who were already there, about my dream, which
amused them as much as it had done me. The servants came in and I read
prayers, after which the party dispersed. I opened the dining room door,
where, to my amazement, stood the pig in the very spot in which I had
seen him in my dream. With regard to your question as to whether I
could have heard the pig in my sleep, he was then safely in his sty, and my
room is quite on the other side of the house, a largo hall dividing our
side from the servants' side of the house, behind which, in a yard, was the
pig-sty. It got into the dining room in consequence of the gardener being
engaged in cleaning out the sty while the servants were at prayers ; they
hardly needs reference), where paranoiacs have believed that all important events had
been predicted to them beforehand. But as Dr. Hodgson points out, (American
Proceedings, p. 543), these cases are not really parallel to the phenomena which
concern us. They are, in fact, a form of the common insane delusion of grandeur. A
further reply by Edmund Gurney will be found in Mind for July, 1888. It may
suffice here to add that longer experience has continued to inspire distrust of these
short cuts, or improvised generalisations, as to habits of memory. Memory may
sometimes play such tricks as Professor Royce supposes, and may play all kinds of
other tricks as well, and may, again, be sometimes far more accurate than we are
disposed to expect. We must in each instance be fn-shly on the look out for memory's
possible errors, but the notion of a special track of error in the direction suggested
by Professor Royce lias not as yet been supported by adequate evidence.
488 F. W. H. Myers.
having left every door open, the pig met with no obstacle on his voyage
of discovery. Fanny P. Atiay.
I heard Mrs. Atlay tell the dream when she came into the hall before
prayers. [Precise date not remembered—atew years ago.]
Emily Nimmo. (Governess.)
In reply to my inquiry whether the pig might not have escaped
before the dream, and have given some indication of proximity to Mrs.
Atlay's bedroom window, that lady informed me that he only got loose )
while she was reading prayers ;—the gardeners who had been cleaning
his sty having left it imperfectly secured. The sty was at a consider
able distance from the palace. The date of the incident was a few
years before the record, but cannot now be precisely ascertained.
The next case which I shall quote is, I think, almost unique in our
collection in this respect,—that the premonition seems to work its own
fulfilment, by suggesting the one course of action which, as it happened,
would bring about the dreaded experience. It is, of course, possible
that the coincidence may have been accidental. Mrs. C. says that she
is rather a frequent dreamer, although few of her dreams make so
strong an impression as the one which I quote, and another with
similar coincidence, which I omit for want of space. 0
P. 204.
Mrs. C. writes in a letter dated February 29th, 1888, from Holland-road,
Kensington :—
I have an intense horror of monkeys—I seldom look at one if I can help
it—they are objects of such antipathy to me ; and I dreamed that I was
persistently followed by one such as I had never seen before, but which
terrified me extremely, and from which I could not escape.
Thinking I should be better able to throw off the impression of my
dream if I told it, I mentioned it to my family, and my husband
recommended a short walk. In consequence, and quite contrary to my
custom, I arranged to take my children for a short walk, without their nurse
accompanying me, and as their favourite walk was up Nightingale-lane,
(Holland-lane), past another lane enclosed by the high walls of Argyll
Lodge, the residence of the Duke of Argyll, I agreed to take them there,
and when we arrived at Argyll Lodge, what was my horror to see on the
roof of the coach-house the very monkey of my dreams ! In my surprise
and terror, I clasped my hands and exclaimed, much to the amazement of a
coachman waiting outside, " My dream ! My dream ' "
This I suppose attracted the attention of the monkey and he began to
come after us, he on the top of the wall, we beneath, every minute I
expecting he would jump upon me, and having precisely the same terror I
experienced in my dream. One of my children being very young we could
not go fast, which added to my distress, but we succeeded in escaping it,
and on my return home I sent a servant to enquire if a monkey had been
The Subliminal Self. 489
seen there, for my state of nervousness was extreme. She was informed
that that morning a rare and very valuable monkey belonging to the
Duchess had got loose, and so the incident was explained. But my
dreaming of it previously remains unexplained. [Signed by Mrs C ]
In a subsequent letter dated March 2nd, 1888, Mrs. C. writes :—
The " monkey dream " was told to at least six persons before I went for
my walk, and my children still remember my terror and the "peculiar
monkey " which followed us.
Mrs. C. also states that the dream occurred in 1867, and sends letters
of corroboration from her husband and her nurse, which are given below.
F. W. H. Myers, Esq.,—Dear Sir,—I have seen my wife's corres
pondence with you, and I fully confirm the facts as she has stated them.
Yours very faithfully, [Signed by Mr. C]
Statement written by Mrs. C.'s nurse.
Holland-road, March 3rd, 1888.
Caroline M., Mrs. C. 's nurse, remembers two dreams [i.e., this and another
sent to us, but not printed here] which her mistress told her when she went
to her room in the morning. She remembers both dreams coming true.
The Marquis of Lorne informs me that a monkey was in fact kept
in the stables of Argyll Lodge at and after the date here somewhat
vaguely indicated.
Here is a case where the percipient is well known to me.
P. 224. Statement by Colonel K. Coghill.
April, 1894.
A curious case occurred to me last month, though it may be but a
coincidence not worth recounting On 28th March I received a letter from
a lady, with whom I had not been in correspondence for about a year, stating
that on the 26th she had either a vision or a dream ( I forget the expression)
that she saw me in a very dangerous position under a horse, from which
many people were trying to relieve me. By return of post I wrote that I
thought it a dream which was proved by contraries, as nothing of the sort
had occurred. That afternoon I received notice of a last " off day" with our
pack of hounds, and the next morning on my way to covert I posted my
( letter. At the finish of a long run in the afternoon, my horse, pulling
double down a steep hill, was unable to collect himself for a big bank at the
bottom of the hill, breasted it, and fell head over heels into a deep and
broad drop ditch on the far side with me underneath him. His head and
shoulders were at the bottom and legs remained up on the landing side of
the ditch. Many of the field dismounted, and after some minutes pulled
the horse away, and got me from under, more or less stunned, but little the
worse, except a few face cuts, the loss of a tooth, and a crushed stirrup, and
the horse with a few head cuts. The horse was about my best hunter, and
never before guilty of such a thing, though, of course, it may have been but a
hunting-field coincidence. Kendal Coghill.
April, 1894.
490 F. IF. H. Myers.
The letter in which the lady in question (the Hon. Mrs. Leir-Carleton)
relates her dream is unfortunately lost, but Sir Joseph Coghill writes :—
Glen Barrabane, Castle Townsend, May 3rd, 1894.
On the 29th March last, my brother, Colonel Coghill, C.B., showed me
a portion of a letter just received from a lady who wrote describing a dream
or vision in which she had seen him meet with a serious accident from a
horse, and she noticed a crowd of persons assisting him away.
J. L. Coghill.
Colonel Coghill writes by return of post, after the receipt of the letter
relating the dream, but before the accident, as follows :—
Cosheen, Castle Townsend, Co. Cork, Wednesday, March 28th.
My dear Mrs. Carleton,—Need I say how delighted I was to see
your handwriting this morning, and how happy I am to say that your dream
has so far proved the rule of going by "contraries," for I never in my life was
going stronger than I am at present.
Writing again on the 31st March, the day after the accident, Colonel
Coghill says :—
"My dear Mrs. Carleton,—You win, hands down. There are two
grounds on which we, your friends, have to thank ourselves that you belong
to the last half of this century—first that we can enjoy your existence and
friendship, and secondly that had you lived earlier you might have been
burnt as a witch, for by your dream you foretold a grief to me, though in
prospective. Yesterday I enjoyed the imperial crowner which you saw in your
dream, the hardest fall I have had for very many years. It was the last day of
our hunt, and I wanted to give a finishing touch to the education of my
young horse. I began the day badly by being on the wrong side of the
wood when they broke away, and while riding hard to overtake them I topped
a bank and found a chasm too big, so we dropped a crumpler, but I got off with
a broken spur and bent stirrup. After I had overtaken my field, I was pelting
down a hill faster than I wanted, and met a stiff bank at the bottom with a
broad ditch and a drop on the landing side. The young savage couldn't
collect himself in time and struck the bank above his knees. Tableau—six
legs in the air ; 2nd view—a man in the ditch with horse on top of his (the
man's) head. Here your dream fails, for instead of an unsympathetic crowd
helping him, I was released by half-a-dozen friends, including the master,
and about as many ladies ; 3rd tableau—all their loose horses pursuing the
hounds riderless.
" My first thought when down was your dream, and before my head was
out of the mud, I said : ' At any rate, as I am to be led away by some one
the neck must be all right '—and so it was, and I got off very cheaply. Con
sidering that the horse was on my head I can't understand how the only
thing that gave way was my extreme back tooth, which got smashed and its
next neighbour chipped—a few scratches on nose and forehead sums up the
total grief, and cheap at the price. Now will you oblige me, if I am worth
a sleeping, or waking dream in future, to make a pleasanter one of it—for
this morning I feel as if a crowbar had replaced my jointy neck, and every
joint is bound in iron cramps of shoulders, arms, and legs. A few hot baths
The SxMiminal Self. 491
and a little massage will put all that right, and as it was the last day of the
season, I lose nothing by it. I should not have written all this, but I
thought that in connection with your dream you might feel an interest in
its fulfilment."
The Hon. Mrs. Leir-Carleton, -who experienced this dream, writes from
Greywell Hill, Winchfield, as follows :—
From my childhood I have had premonitions of illnesses ; sometimes the
illness proves trivial and sometimes fatal. I have no distinct impressions,
but coming events seem to cast shadows before them, which as a child I used
to term ''fore-feeling," and I have not yet found any better word. I have
heard my Scotch mother, long deceased, relate premonitory dreams of her
own, so there is probably some hereditary sensitiveness to impressions.
After a few hours or days the gloomy fore-feeling seems to lighten in
some cases, as though a threatening " disagreeable " had been somehow
averted. But I can conscientiously affirm that no great sorrow, however
sudden, has come upon me unpreceded by a premonition of approaching
trouble connected with the individual about to suffer or die.
I have also repeatedly fore-felt the loss of pets neither sick nor old.
Here again is a case where a somewhat complex scene, involving
the action of several persons, is dreamt and narrated beforehand.
P. 195.
Mr. Haggard of the British Consulate, Trieste, Austria, gives the
following account of a premonitory dream and its fulfilment :—
September 21st, 1893.
A few months ago I had an extraordinarily vivid dream, and waking up
repeated it to my wife at once. All I dreamt actually occurred about six
weeks afterwards, the details of my dream falling out exactly as dreamt.
There seems to have been no purpose whatsoever in the dream ; and one
cannot help thinking, what was the good of it.
I dreamt that I was asked to dinner by the German Consul General, and
accepting, was ushered into a large room with trophies of East African arms
on shields against the walls. (N.B.—I have myself been a great deal in
East Africa.)
After dinner I went to inspect the arms, and amongst them saw a
beautifully gold-mounted sword which I pointed out to the French Vice-
Consul—who at that moment joined me—as having probably been a present
from the Sultan of Zanzibar to my host the German Consul General.
At that moment the Russian Consul came up too. He pointed out how
small was the hilt of the sword and how impossible in consequence it would
be for a European to use the weapon, and whilst talking he waved his arm
in an excited manner over his head as if he was wielding the sword, and to
illustrate what he was saying.
At that moment I woke up and marvelled so at the vividness of the
dream that I woke my wife up too and told it to her.
About six weeks afterwards my wife and myself were asked to dine with
the German Consul General ; but the dream had long been forgotten by
us both.
492 F. W. H. Myers.
We were shown into a large withdrawing room which I had never been
in before, but which somehow seemed familiar to me. Against the walls
were some beautiful trophies of East African arms, amongst which was a
gold-hilted sword, a gift to my host from the Sultan of Zanzibar.
To make a long story short, everything' happened exactly as I had dreamt
—but I never remembered the dream until the Russian Consul began to
wave his arm over his head, when it came back to me like a flash.
Without saying a word to the Russian Consul and French Vice-Consul
(whom I left standing before the trophy) I walked quickly across to my wife,
who was standing at the entrance of a boudoir opening out of the withdraw
ing room, and said to her;—"Do you remember my dream about the
Zanzibar arms ? " She remembered everything perfectly, and was a witness
to its realization. On the spot we informed all the persons concerned of the
dream, which naturally much interested them.
Mrs. Haggard's corroboration of her husband's dream and its fulfilment
runs as follows :—
I remember being awoke one night by my husband to hear a curiously
vivid dream he had just had. It is now some months ago, and possibly
some of the more minute details of his relation may have escaped my
memory, but what I remember of his dream is the following. He dreamed
that we were dining with the German Consul General, whose drawing-
room, a remarkably handsome apartment, was ornamented with trophies
of arms from the East Coast of Africa. Having been in those regions
himself, he felt some interest in them, and went nearer to examine them '
more closely. While he was doing so, the Russian Consul came up, and
in his usual rather excitable fashion began flourishing his arm, as he
dilated upon the extraordinary smallness of the native hand for which
the hilt of a certain sword must have been designed. That is what I
recollect of the dream. Its fulfilment took place a few weeks later, when
the circumstance of the dream had almost passed from our thoughts.
We dined one evening with the German Consul General, the Russian
Consul being also present, among others. After dinner my husband went to
examine one of the trophies of East African arms, with which the room—as
in his dream,—was hung. While he was doing so, the Russian Consul went
up to speak to him upon the subject, and the dramatic flourish of his arm,
with which he emphasised his conversation, at once recalled the dream,
in which it had taken place, so vividly to my husband's mind, that he
immediately crossed the room to me, and asked me if I did not remember it
also, which of course I did, though, as I was talking to some one else at the
time, and only knew the room previously by my husband's description of his
dream, the coincidence might not have occurred to me had he not called my
attention to it. Directly he did so, however, by asking me if I did not
remember his dream, I recollected quite well all the details I have previously
mentioned. AoneS M Haggard.
Trieste, October 20th, 1893.
Below are given a letter from Mr. Kolemine, Russian Consul, and a state
ment from Herr Michabelles, German Consul General at Trieste, both of
The Subliminal Self. 493
whom were witnesses of the fulfilment of Mr. Haggard's dream, and of the
great impression which it made upon him at the time.
Monsieur Haggard, mon collegue d'Angleterre, en a eu un tres remar-
quable au point de vue psychologique. MUe Z auasi et d'autres personnes
encore. Veuillez accepter tout ce que Monsieur Haggard vous a ecrit comme
^tant parfaitement la venW et l'asserter de mon nnm si vous le jugez
necessaire.
Agréez, cher Monsieur, l'assurance de ma considération tres distinguee.
A. de KolejiIne.
Whilst I was German Consul General at Trieste, I had one evening in
February or March of this year, the pleasure of Mr. and Mrs. Haggard's
company at dinner ; among others the Russian Consul was present. It was
the first time that Mr. Haggard came into my private house ; before we had
always met in my office. After dinner I was busy in entertaining my party,
when suddenly Mr. Haggard joined me and told me that a few weeks before
he had seen, in a very vivid dream, my drawing-room with the trophies of
East African arms on shields against the walls, and Mr. Kolemine, the
Russian Consul, standing before one trophy had explained something to
him in his usual excited manner, waving his arms over his head in order to
illustrate what he said. All this had happened just at the moment with all
particulars seen in the dream. I was extremely astonished at the strange
occurrence and observed that the realisation of his dream had produced a
strong effect on Mr. Haggard's mind.
J. MlCHaBelLeS,
Counsellor of legation in the Foreign Office.
Berlin, November 10th, 1893.
In the next case the gradual accomplishment of the dream seems
to have been watched with interest by more than one person.
P. 206.
The Rev. B. Dulley, of St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.,
sends the following statement, which was written in October, 1893, and is
certified to be correct by the percipient, Annette Jones.
Annette, wife of Walter Jones, tobacconist, of Old Gravel Lane, St.
George's, East London, early in September of this year (1893) had her little
boy, Peter, ill. One night she dreamt that she saw a cart drive up, stop
near where she was, and the driver move a black cloth and discover three
coffins, two white and one blue. One white coffin was bigger than the other,
and the blue was the biggest of the three. The man took out the bigger
white coffin and left it, driving off with the two others. In the morning
Mrs. Jones told her dream to her husband, and afterwards to another woman,
specially telling her husband that one of the coffins was blue. On the 10th
of September, Mrs. Devonshire, who, and whose husband were particular
friends of the Jones's, was confined with a fine boy, whom they named Eric.
At first he seemed quite healthy, but a weakness of the lungs developed
itself and he died on Friday, the 29th of September. Little Peter Jones died
2 N
494 F. W. H. Myers.
the following Monday, the 2nd of October, being then 16 months old. Mr.
and Mrs. Jones, knowing that Eric was to be buried on the Wednesday, for
the sake of both friendship and economy, hurried their little boy's burial for
that day, so that both funerals should take place at the same time. On the
morning of the Wednesday, the parish priest informed Mr. and Mr. Jones
that another child's body would be brought into church along with theirs,
the son of a Mrs. Jupp, whom they did not know.
Mrs. Jones then remarked to her husband, "If the coffin is blue, then
my dream will come true. For the two other coffins were white." And so
it happened. Mrs. Jones anxiously watched at the funeral for little Jupp'»
coffin, and when she saw it was blue, she clutched her sister, who walked by
her side, and said " that's my dream." It will be noticed that the relative
sizes of the coffins also corresponded, little Eric's being the smallest for a child
of a few days, little Jupp's the largest for one about 6 years, and blue, and
Peter's, of course, less than his but bigger than Eric's.
I have read the above and find it a true and correct account of my dream
and the circumstances relating to it.
Annette Jones.
I remember distinctly my wife telling me of her dream, and especially as
to the colour of the coffins, 2 white and 1 blue, and watched the circumstances
which occurred afterwards with something like awe.
Walter H. Jones.
The Rev. B. Dulley states in a letter dated January 6th, 1894 :—
Mr. Jones is a particularly common-sense practical man with abilities
in that respect above the average. So far from welcoming the preternatural
event noted, he is rather vexed and worried by it. Both he and his wife are
conscientious people, and certainly believe what they say.
B. Duiiey, Clerk in Holy Orders.
In some other cases the premonitory dream, although it may have
made a vivid impression, and perhaps have even been narrated to others,
is then apparently clean forgotten until the moment of its fulfilment.
Mrs. Sidgwick has justly urged (of a similar case) that this looks
rather as though we were dealing with a pseudo-memory, created by
the very circumstance which seems merely to revive it. There may,
however, be another explanation. We know that when a suggestion is
given to a good subject in the hypnotic trance to the effect that he will
(say) open the window half an-hour after awaking, he passes that half-
hour in unconsciousness of the order,—which order nevertheless he fulfils
at the right minute. Well, while he is thus fulfilling it, or just before
he fulfils it, he lapses into a state more akin to the hypnotic state in
which he received the order than to the waking state in which he has
since remained. The memory of what he has to do comes to him only
just in time, and derives its efficacy from a partial recrudescence of the
condition in which he was when he accepted the order. Even thus,
perhaps, we might by analogy consider the condition of the dreamer of
The Subliminal Self. 495
a precognitive dream as a secondary state, the recollection of which has
a tendency to fade from the waking mind, but which is partially
revived when the prefigured incident,— which belongs in a sense to the
secondary state,—suddenly presents itself in the waking day.
Bearing this in mind, the following prevision of a rattle-snake may
be compared with the prevision of a woodcock which Mrs. Sidgwick
quotes. Observe that in this case, although Dr. Kinsolving did not
actually recount his dream before the event, he remembers having
thought of doing so, but refrained from a natural scruple.
P. 149.
Dr. Kinsolving of the Protestant Episcopal Church of the Epiphany,
Philadelphia, writes as follows to Dr. Hodgson :—
2016, Locust-street, Philadelphia,
October lUh, 1891.
My Dear Sir, —The dream was this. I seemed to be in woods back of
the hotel at Capon Springs, W. Va., when I came across a rattle-snake,
which when killed had two black-looking rattles and a peculiar projection of
bone from the tail, while the skin was unusually light in colour. The
impression of the snake was very distinct and vivid before my mind's eye
when I awoke in the morning, but I did not mention the dream to any one,
though I was in the act of telling my wife while dressing, but refrained from
so doing because I was in the habit of taking long walks in the mountains,
and I did not wish to make her nervous by the suggestion of snakes.
After breakfast, I started with my brother along the back of the great
north mountain, and when about twelve miles from the hotel we decided to
go down out of the mountain into the road and return home. As we started
down the side of the mountain I suddenly became vividly conscious of my
dream, to such an extent as to startle me, and to put me on the alert. I
was walking rapidly, and had gone about thirty steps, when I came on a
snake coiled and ready to strike. My foot was in the air and had I finished
my step I would have trodden upon the snake. I threw myself to one side and
fell heavily on the ground. I recovered myself at once and killed the snake
with the assistance of my brother, and found it to be the same snake in
every particular with the one I had had in my mind's eye. The same size,
colour, and peculiar mal-formation of the tail.
It is my belief that my dream prevented me from treading on the snake,
but I have no theory on the subject, and get considerably mixed and
muddled when I try to think on the line of such abnormal experiences.
G. H. Kinsolving.
Christ Church, Clinton and Harrison Sts.,
323, Clinton-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
April 19th, 1892.
Mr. Richard Hodgson,—My Dear Sir,—My brother, the Rev. Geo.
H. Kinsolving, of Philadelphia, has enclosed me your request for my
2 n 2
496 F. W. H. Myers.
recollection of his premonitory dream last summer at Capon Springs.
Constant occupation during the season just ended is my apology for a
somewhat tardy compliance with that request. The circumstances as I
remember them were these :—
We started, he and I together, off from the Springs Hotel just after
breakfast to go over the mountain to Rock Enon Springs. Our first stop was
on the crest of the North Mountain and near it we had some conversation
with two boys who were out huckleberrying. I asked them about their
experience with rattle-snakes, and they replied that they had killed several
during the season. Later, my brother and I were clambering up a steep,
rough, bushy cliff and as he was in front I said, " You had better look out
for rattle-snakes. This is a very snaky sort of place." At neither of these
references to the subject of the snakes did my brother seem to be reminded
of or make any allusion to his dream of the night before of which he had not
then told me.
After walking some way beyond this we missed our trail and found our
selves descending the mountain. Suddenly my brother, who was at my side
and a little in front, threw his body back and said, '' My ! I like to have stepped
on that fellow ! " I think I caught him by the shoulder as, with one foot
raised just over the reptile which was coiled under some bushes and a bit of
brushwood, he reeled backward. Then as we closed in upon the snake and
delivered our first stones, my brother catching sight of his tail said, " That
is strange ! I will tell you something remarkable about that snake in a
moment." Then when we had killed the snake, before I had noticed any
thing remarkable about it—when to me it was like Jim Smiley's frog, "just
like any other frog "—my brother pointed to the fact that it had but one
rattle on its tail, and proceeded to tell me his dream. He said that the night
before he dreamed that he came up in the front of the Springs Hotel as a
party of boys were in the act of killing a snake. Bending over the reptile he
said, " Why, boys, that snake has a diseased tail." And on examination it
appeared a very singular, defective tail. At the time of his narrow escape
from being bitten (for the reptile had thrown back his head to strike when
discovered), he said the dream had suddenly come into his mind. I noticed
a pause and losing the thread of the argument in which we were engaged, and
this made me look towards him at the moment. He answered there on the
spot to my question why he had not told me the strange dream when I
mentioned snakes as we clambered up the peak or when we were speaking
with the boys, that he had not thought of the dream during our walk until a
»moment before this snake was met and that at that moment the dream had
come into his mind with such vividness as to make him look where he was
walking with some care.
The snake was large enough to have had half-a-dozen or more rattles. It
had a single rattle—not a button—and looked as though disease or crushing
or some unusual accident had deprived it of the rest.
These are the facts, as I remember them, very hastily narrated. The
experience was altogether unique for me at least. I will send you this
direct without having spoken to [my brother] of the experience since leaving
the Springs in the month of August last.
Arthtr B. Kinsolving.
The Subliminal Self. 497
The following case, from a lady known to me, is interesting in
this connexion ; since a dream is at first remembered so impressively
as to affect action, is then apparently forgotten, and finally revives
in memory just in time to enable the dreamer to avert its complete
fulfilment.
P. 185.
On the second occasion my warning in dream did probably prevent a
i rather serious accident. We were living in about 188—, in Hertford-street,
Mayfair. One day I determined that on the morrow I would drive to Wool
wich in our brougham, taking my little child and nurse, to spend the day
with a relation. During the night I had a painfully clear dream in vision of
the brougham turning up one of the streets north of Piccadilly ; and then of
myself standing on the payment and holding my child, our old coachman fall
ing on his head on the road,—his hat smashed in. This so much discomposed
me that when in the morning I sent for the coachman to give him his orders,
I almost hoped that some obstacle to the drive might arise, so that I might
have an excuse for going by train. The coachman was an old and valued
servant. I asked him if ho would have the carriage ready to drive to Wool
wich at ten. He was not given to making difficulties ; but he hesitated,
and when I suggested eleven instead, he said that he would prefer that hour.
He gave no reason for his hesitation and said that the horse was quite well.
I told him almost eagerly that I could quite well go by train ; but he said
that all was right.
We went to Woolwich and spent the day. All went well until we reached
Piccadilly on the return journey. Then I saw that other coachmen were
looking at us ; and looking through the glass front of the brougham I saw
that the coachman was leaning back in his seat, as though the horse were
pulling violently, of which, however, I felt no sign. We turned up Down-
street. He retained his attitude. My dream flashed back upon me. I
called to him to stop, jumped out, caught hold of my child, and called to a
policeman to catch the coachman. Just as he did so the coachman swayed
and fell off the box. If I had been in the least less prompt, he would have
fallen just as I saw him in my dream. I found afterwards that the poor man
had been suffering from a serious attack of diarrhoea on the previous day, and
had gradually fainted from exhaustion during the drive home. He was
absolutely sober ; and his only mistake had been in thinking that he was
strong enough to undertake the long drive. In this case my premonitory
dream differed from the reality in two points. In my dream we approached
Down-street from the west ; in reality we came from the east. In my
dream the coachman actually fell on his head ; the crushing of his hat
on the road being the most vivid point of the dream. In reality this
was just averted by the prompt action which my anxious memory of the
dream inspired.
Signed [Lady Z.]
The aversion of the fulfilment, by reasonable precaution, is here an
important feature. Another dream of the same lady's presents us with
498 F. W. H. Myers.
a fatal fulfilment occurring in spite of the dreamer's aroused anxiety.
But in that case no precautions were taken—nor indeed could they
have been easily taken,—to avert the calamity.
P. 184.
I am not usually a great dreamer ; but on two occasions, and two occasions
only in my life, I have acted on dreams or impressions, and in each case there
seems to have been some meaning in the impression which I received.
In or about the year 1866, Lord Z. and I were inhabiting a house in
Charles-street, Mayfair. We had built out a bedroom into the small court
behind. This bedroom was separated only by a narrow passage or strip of
court from our neighbour, Mrs. L's kitchen, which was built out into the
court in the same fashion, and was of one story only.
In the middle of a very cold night I was suddenly awakened by a heavy
fall into this passage outside our bedroom wall, as if some heavy body had
fallen into it from the roof of Mrs. L.'s kitchen. I listened, much alarmed,
and heard groans from the passage. I thought that some burglar had slipped
from the kitchen roof down on to the pavement and was lying there injured.
I begged Lord Z. to get up and look ; but he could hear nothing, and told
me that I had been dreaming. I went to sleep again at length ; but was
again awakened by a similar thud in the passage. I now begged Lord Z. so
earnestly to look that he got up and partially dressed and opened a door on
the ground floor which led into this passage. The moon was shining brightly,
and there was no trace whatever of anything unusual. Much perplexed I P
again went to sleep. After I had left the bedroom in the morning, a servant
came to ask me whether he might get ready a bedroom to receive a workman
who had come to work on the roof of Mrs. L.'s kitchen, and had fallen into
the passage from the kitchen-roof just as I had thought that I heard a man
fall some few hours previously.
The premonition, if such it was, was here of no special use. It seemed
as though I had received an intimation of a coming fact which only con
cerned me by its mere physical nearness.
Signed [Lady Z.]
[Lord Z. is no longer living.]
A case very similar to this reaches us from America. Dr. Hodgson
knows Mrs. P. and Dr. Lukens, and has examined Dr. Lukens's notes
throughout.
P- 214- Metuchen, N.J. , March 12th, [1892].
Prof. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—About the time this reaches you, you will
receive a "Fulfilled Prediction," written by me and signed by four others.
The fifth witness is ill in Brooklyn, but I can procure her attestation should
you desire it. I am the sixth—the seventh is in " The Great Beyond." All
these heard the prediction repeatedly.
I lay stress on this incident because of my impression of the accident
several weeks before it took place, and because in no way that I can see
could it have been photographed upon the ether 6e/ore it took place. Unless,
The Subliminal Self. 499
indeed, our innermost, the spiritual essence, being at one with the Universal
Spirit, foresees the future as part of the Eternal whole.
Some curious facts I did not incorporate in the statement, because they
could not be vouched for by the witnesses. For instance, Mr. Collins, to
whom the fatal accident happened, was asked by Mr. Van Horn (the hus
band of the last signer to the document which she will forward to you) to re
move the snow from the roof as described. The roof was a small conserva
tory extending from the main dwelling. This he did as requested. Then he
began to clear the ice from the gutter at his own monition, though remon-
• strated with and strictly charged to be careful lest he should fall, by Mr. Van
Horn, his employer. You will see the pertinence of this fact by comparing
this statement with that which is, or will be, forwarded to you by Mrs. Van
Horn.
H. M. P.
A Fulfilled Prediction.
In the winter of 1886 and 1887, I was living at West 29th Street, New
York City. In company with six friends I used to sit one hour each week,
not for " spiritual manifestations " but for the purpose of harmonising our
selves and for the cultivation of sensibility to psychic impressions.
During these meetings several strong presentiments of future occurrences
came to me (Mrs. H. M. P.), which were subsequently verified.
One of the more marked was the following :.—
I distinctly felt that a serious accident would shortly happen to some per
son in or about the back portion of the residence. There would be a fearful
fall of some elderly man.
Now in the house were two elderly men, but I foresaw that the accident
would happen to neither of these.
Again and again as we sat within our quiet room, did the impression of
this terrible fall come to me, as those present clearly remember. At such
times the horror was strong and persistent. In consequence we even talked
of having a lamp constantly burning on the hall of the basement staircase
lest one might make a misstep there. But I could not locate the place where
the fall would happen.
In the late winter of 1887 there occurred a heavy rain followed by a sud
den freeze. In consequence the rain-gutter of the rear roof became clogged
with ice which it seemed desirable should bo cleared away.
In order to do this a man, between sixty and seventy years of age, Thomas
- Collins by name—the foreman of a number of men employed by the husband
of one of us—volunteered to remove the ice. It is needless to say that none
of our number knew anything of what he was about to do.
Accordingly Mr. Collins, a man of large experience, caution, and intelli
gence, with hatchet in hand mounted a ladder placed against the eaves of
the roof. The ladder slipped as he reached the top, and he, with it, fell to
the stone paving of the area. Mr. Collins struck upon his head causing
fracture of the skull. He was removed to the hospital, where he died in a
few hours without having recovered consciousness.
The first impression or foreshadowing of this accident was between two
and three months before its occurrence.
H. M. P., Metuchen, N.J.
500 F. W. H. Myers.
The undersigned, who heard this prediction, testify to the statement as
recorded above.
(Signed) Henrietta M. Marvin, Morrisania, N.Y.
Harriet W. Farnsworth, 140, W. 16th St., N.Y.
Sarah J. Ostranda, 181, Sixth Avenue [New York].
Sarah W. Van Horn, Fairfield, Conn, (at the time
mentioned 106, West 29th St., New York).
[I add a few other brief cases from the experience of Mrs. H. M. P.]
On the evening of January 2nd, 1892, Mrs. H. M. P. made the following
prediction. "I see Dr. Anna Lukens receive a letter announcing a death.
You (to Dr. A. L.) will soon hear of the death of some one connected with
you—not very closely ; but the news will be something of a shock and a
great surprise, but it is not a death that will touch you closely."
The following persons were present (at 1,068, Lexington Avenue, New
York City) when the prediction was made.
Dr. Anna Lukens.
H. M. P.
M. L. Jackson.
W. E. Ward.
[Received February 23rd, 1892.—R H.]
Extract from letter to Dr. Anna Lukens from her niece :—
Philadelphia, January Uth, 1892.
My Dear Aunt Annie,—. . . . Wasn't that very sad about Hannah
Jones ? Suppose thee knew she died on January 2nd of pneumonia, and was
buried Wednesday, the 6th. They were living on 13th Street, kI. Locust
Street, for the winter. It must be very hard for John and the
children
W. E. L.
Through Dr. Anna Lukens, member S.P.R.
Sunday, May 1st, 1892. 3.30 p.m.
Mrs. H. M. P. in semi-trance. Her control, X., tells Mr. W. E.
Ward that one of his horses (off horse) (a new span recently purchased) is
unsafe and that an accident will occur which may be very serious unless
great care is observed. X. (control) says " horse will shy badly—I think
going down hill, both horses inclined to be tricky—will try to run away on
this occasion ; better get rid of them." After a few minutes' pause X. says
" Brave, there is a dangerous place in your big factory, upper part—some
thing broken—will fall soon, and if it does will kill many people. Can't
see just what it is—but you better look after it at once."
Both predictions verified the following Thursday (May 5th), within a
few hours of each other. The off horse shied badly, threw the carriage
off on the side of the road, nearly upsetting it, and then both horses
tried to run away. Owing to the good management of the coachman, no
injury was sustained. A few hours after this accident, a split beam,
forming part of one of the heavy trusses supporting the roof, was discovered
The Subliminal Self. 501
in exact locality as described by the medium. If it had fallen, which it
must soon have done, there would have been serious loss of life.
(Signed) H. M. P.
W. E. Ward.
Anna Likens.
[Received May 19th, 1892.—R. H.]
And now I quote a case where the dream was told beforehand,
. but to a person now dead. Even had it not thus been told, I see no
reason to suppose that the mere sight of a quite commonplace
scene could generate a pseudo-memory with so uniquely disturbing an
influence in a man otherwise sane and in the midst of work.
P. 154. Algonquin Club, Boston.
December 27th, 1893.
Richard Hoooson, LL.D.,—Dear Sir,—I enclose to you herewith a
very curious story told me by my friend, Mr. W. H. M. [name and
address given], Boston. I am afraid that strong corroborative evidence
cannot now be secured from persons to whom Mr. M. may have told his
"dream " before he went to Reading. He thinks that he mentioned having
had a very vivid dream to his fiancee, now his wife, and that his mother,
, now dead, knew of the dream at the time. He did not talk very freely
about the affair, because he did not care to expose himself to the ridicule of
his friends.
I know him very well. He is a brusque, practical, every-day young
man, of large business experience, and apparently very far removed by
nature and environment from susceptibility to hallucination. I believe in
his truthfulness and honesty in this matter most implicitly.
It may be well to say that I have not attempted to secure evidence of
the correctness of topographical details from Reading ; also, that at the
time of his dream, Mr. M. had in his possession no letter from that city,
nor any friends nor business relations in or with the place, and his trip to
Reading in the following autumn was purely the result of sudden exigency.
He went to Philadelphia, I believe, to meet a friend, found he had gone to
Reading, and followed him thither.
Charles Heywood.
Mr. W. H. M. awoke one morning, probably in August, 1884, and
proceeded, as was his habit, to plunge his head into cold water. At this,
the recollection flashed across his mind of a dream he had had during the
night. He had seemed to be in a strange city, in a square at the inter
section of several streets. Between two of the streets was a building with
this sign upon it, "John Leyden (or Layton), Hay and Grain, Coal and
Wood." The vision made such an impression upon him that he remembered
it during the summer. In the following October he visited Reading, Pa.,
for the first time in his life. Arriving after dark and being unfamiliar with
the city, he enquired the way to the nearest respectable hotel, and there put
upfor the night. In the morning he opened his window and looked out upon
502 F. W. H. Myers.
the square seen in his dream, corresponding in every detail, even to the bale
of hay and the bags of grain at the door of the store.
The above statement is as nearly correct as I can now recall it.
W. H. M.
February 12th, 1894.
Richard Hodgson, LL.D.,—Dear Sir,—I have your letter of the 8th,
and in reply would say that my friend Heywood's account of my "dream"
is as I recall it now. I am a civil engineer, and at the time of the occurr
ence I was Principal Assistant Engineer of the Boston and Providence R.R.
My seventeen years of business life have been actively spent in the practice
of my profession and in general contracting, and until this thing happened
I had always regarded anything of like nature as a delusion or a trick.
Under these circumstances, I think you will understand why I didn't
mention the matter to my friends. I told my mother something of it
'before I went away,—in fact, a day or so after the dream,—but as she died
October 26th, 1893, that avenue of investigation is closed. My (at that
time) fiancee lived in Burlington, Vt., and on visiting her soon after my
trip to Reading, Pa., I told her of the matter. She is now my wife, and
recalls the affair, but I am afraid this is not good evidence, nor have I any
other. The man 1 went to see died about 1885 or 1886, though I learned
this only three years ago.
I am sorry not to be able to furnish corroborative evidence of this
matter, as I would like to have it explained. I had never been in Reading ^
till that time, nor have I been there since.
The matter bothered me so much at the time that it almost demoralized
me. I couldn't get it out of my mind. There is one more thing which I
would like an explanation of. It used to bother me, but I am quite used to
it now. Since I was a young boy, I have been frequently surprised to find
myself saying in conversation combinations of words which I recognize as
having dreamt of, or unconsciously thought of. I mean phrases which I
have never thought of in connection with the subject with which I after
wards use them. This used to so affect mo that 1 would hesitate—almost
stop talking—and then involuntarily finish the remark with the remainder
of the words, which would frequently be in unusual combination, but
properly used.
When I realised the occurrence, it seemed for an instant as though
I had lost control of my mind. This happens to me still once in a
while, but it doesn't unnerve me as it used to do. Do I make myself
understood 1
I do not think I am fanciful or imaginative, but I have given these
things much unproductive thought, and I am anxious to have them
explained, which is the reason I told Heywood of the first matter.
I should prefer that my name be withheld from publication. My wife
can tell of her limited knowledge of the first matter, and I enclose her
statement.
W. H. M.
[Name, address, and commercial position given.]
The Subliminal Self. 503
February 12th, 1894.
The statement, as told by Mr. Heywood, of Mr. M.'s dream, is sub
stantially as he told it to me before our marriage.
F. R. M. (Address given.)
The prefigured scenes which I have thus far quoted, whether in
themselves trivial or otherwise, have mainly been drawn from the
impending actual personal experience of the seer himself. But in tlie
case (for instance) of the fall from the kitchen roof, it is noticeable
i that Lady Z. did not herself actually hear the fall, although she
would have heard it had she still remained in her bedroom, where she
heard the premonitory sound. Something then was prefigured which
lay just outside her own life-history.
We have some other cases of like type, as, for instance, the follow
ing crystal vision seen by Miss X., in direct response (a very rare
circumstance) to a request for information on a specific point. Other
premonitions of Miss X.'s have already appeared in these Proceedings.
P. 183.
Extract from " Borderland " on "The Art of Crystal-gazing." October,
1893.
A week or two ago I was visiting friends in the country, and was about
to leave their house on a certain morning. " I wonder what you will do after
I'm gone," I was saying.
For answer, one of them pulled towards me a piece of bright mahogany
furniture brilliantly polished, and said, " Here is a crystal—look."
" This is the pic-nic you said you were all going to at Pin Mill, I suppose,"
I said pleasantly, as a picture appeared. "What and where is Pin Mill?
There is no sign of a mill—it is just a grassy bank with some thorn-bushes
beyond. Why do you and K. get up and go away 1 G. and S. stay together
and G. looks as if her back hurt her. The nurse is there too with tho boy."
"I don't know in the least what Pin Mill is, but any way, the nurse and
child won't be there," said my friend.
A day or two later she wrote, " You were almost right about Pin Mill—.
there is no mill in sight. We sat on a bank, K. had cramp and I had to take
her for a walk, G. and S. were left together. G. had sprained her back and
was in some pain, and the nurse and boy were there. The were no thorn-
trees, but there were elder and blackberry-bushes grown up high, which at a
little distance looked like thorns." [I have seen this letter.—F.W.H.M.]
Similarly trivial in the foreshown details is the following case from
the Annates des Sciences Psychiques.
P. 207. The Rivanazzaro Case.
Letter to M. Charles Richet.
April 17th, 1891.
My Dear Colleague, —You ask me to send you my case of telepathy. It
is a story of my youth, and consequently an old story ; I formerly told it to
M. Sabatier, of Montpellier. Here it is, if it interests you : —
504 F. W. H. Myers.
During the summer of 1867, I was officially the assistant, but in reality
the friend, in spite of difference in age, of M. F., a former officer in the navy,
who had gone into business. We were trying to set on foot again the
exploitation of an old sulphur mine at Rivanazzaro, near Voghera, in Pied
mont, which had been long abandoned on account of a falling in.
We occupied the same rooms, and our relations were those of father and
son, or of elder and younger brother.
I have often gone over, in memory, the story I am about to tell you ; I
have studied it with my scientific habits, without finding the least explana
tion. Nevertheless, before owning my absolute inability to arrange the facts
in any method at all in accordance with those to which my profession
habituates me,—measures, figures, experiments,—I have searched for all
the accessory circumstances which might have influenced the phenomenon.
Though I have not been able to come to a conclusion, more competent
persons may do so.
I knew that Madame F., who lived at Toulon, and with whom I was
slightly acquainted, would soon be confined. I cannot say I was indifferent
about this fact, for it concerned M. F. ; but it certainly caused me no pro
found emotion ; it was a second child, all was going wellt and M. F. was not
anxious. I myself was well and calm. It is true that a few days before, in
Burgundy, my mother had fallen out of a carriage ; but the fall had no bad
consequences, and the letter which informed me of it also told me there was
no harm done.
M. F. and I slept in adjoining rooms, and as it was hot we left the door f
between them open. One morning I sprang suddenly out of bed, crossed
my room, entered that of M. F., and awakened him by crying out, "you
have just got a little girl ; the telegram says. . . ." Upon this I began
to read the telegram. M. F. sat up and listened ; but all at once I under
stood that I had been asleep, and that consequently my telegram was only a
dream, not to be believed ; and then, at the same time, this telegram which
was somehow in my hand and of which I had read about three lines aloud,
word for word, seemed to withdraw from my eyes as if some one were carrying
it off open ; the words disappeared, though their image still remained ; those
which I had pronoimced remained in my memory, while the rest of the tele
gram was only a form.
I stammered something ; M. F. got up and led me into the dining-room,
and made me write down the words I had pronounced ; when I came to the
lines which, though they had disappeared from my memory, still remained
pictured in my eye, I replaced them by dots, making a sort of drawing of
them. Remark that the telegram was not written in common terms ; there
were about six lines of it, and I had read more than two of them. Then,
becoming aware of our rather incorrect costume, M. F. and I began to laugh,
and went back to our beds.
Two or three days after I left for Toree ; I tried in vain to remember the
rest of the telegram ; I went on to Turin, and eight or ten days after my
dream I received the following telegram from M. F., " Come directly, you
were right."
I returned to Rivanazzaro and M. F. showed me a telegram which he had
received the evening before ; I recognised it as the one I had seen in my
The Subliminal Self. 505
dream ; the beginning was exactly what I had written, and the end, which
was exactly like my drawing, enabled me to read again the words which I
saw again. Please remark that the confinement had taken place the even
ing before, and therefore the fact was not that I, being in Italy, had seen a
telegram which already existed in France—this I might with some difficulty
have understood—but that I had seen it ten days before it existed or
could hare existed ; since the event it announced had not yet taken place.
I have turned this phenomenon over in my memory and reasoned about it
many times, trying to explain it, to connect it with something, with a pre
vious conversation, with some mental tension, with an analogy, a wish,—and
all in vain. M. F. is dead, and the paper I wrote has disappeared. If I
were called before a court of justice about it, I could not furnish the shadow
of a material proof, and again the two personalities which exist in me, the
animal and the savant, have disputed on this subject so often that sometimes
I doubt it myself. However, the animal, obstinate as an animal usually is,
repeats incessantly that I have seen, and I have read, and it is useless for me
to tell myself that if any one else told me such a story I should not believe
it. I am obliged to admit that it happened.
J. THOrilet.
Professor at the Faculté des Sciences at Nancy.
M. Thoulet has lately confirmed all the details contained in his letter.
He has no longer any written trace of this old story, but the recollection of
it is perfectly clear. He assured me that he had seen and read the telegram
like a real object.
The delicate point of this striking experience so carefully (if a little
tardily) reported, would be to know exactly what degree of resemblance
existed between the real telegram and the visionarytelegram which M. Thoulet
had read ten days before. But even if the identity was not as great as M.
Thoulet now thinks, the analogy must yet have been striking, and the origin
of this astonishing hallucination and clairvoyant premonition is most extra
ordinary.
Ch. R.
It is, of course, possible that the expectant mother had amused
herself by composing telegrams to be used in case of the birth of a boy
or of a girl, so that telepathy may have been at work here.
In the case next quoted the prefigured scene lies still further from
the percipient's own experience ; belonging to the private life of a man
known to her only by sight, and in whom she took no interest.
P. 198.
From Mr. Alfred Cooper, of 9, Henrietta Street, Cavendish Square, W.
This account was orally confirmed by him to Mr. E. Gurney, June 6th,
1888. It is written by Mr. Cooper, but attested also by the Duchess of
Hamilton.
A fortnight before the death of the late Earl of L—, in 1882, I called
upon the Duke of Hamilton, in Hill Street, to see him professionally. After
506 F. W. H. Myers.
I had finished seeing him we went into the drawing-room, where the Duchess
was, and the Duke said to me, " Oh, Cooper ; how is the Earl ? "
The Duchess said, " What Earl t " and on my answering " Lord L—,"
she replied " That is very odd. I have had a most extraordinary vision. I
went to bed, but after being in bed a short time, I was not exactly asleep,
but thought I saw a scene as if from a play before me. The actors in it were
Lord L—, in a chair, as if in a fit, with a man standing over him with a red
beard. He was by the side of a bath, over which bath a red lamp was dis
tinctly shown."
I then said, "I am attending Lord L— at present ; there is very little
the matter with him ; he is not going to die ; he will be all right very
soon."
Well, he got better for a week and was nearly well, but at the end of six
or seven days after this I was called to see him suddenly. He had inflam
mation of both lungs.
I called in Sir William Jenner, but in six days he was a dead man. There
were two male nurses attending on him ; one had been taken ill. But when
I saw the other the dream of the Duchess was exactly represented. He was
standing near a bath over the Earl and, strange to say, his beard was red.
There was the bath with the red lamp over it. It is rather rare to
find a bath with a red lamp over it, and this brought the story to my
mind.
The vision seen by the Duchess was told two weeks before the death of
Lord L—. It is a most remarkable thing.
This account, written in 1888, has been revised by the [late] Duke of
Manchester, father of the Duchess of Hamilton, who heard the vision from
his daughter on the morning after she had seen it.
Signed Mary Hamilton.
Alfred Cooper.
Her Grace had been reading and had just blown out the candle.
Her Grace has had many dreams which have come true years after.
Alfred Cooper.
[The Duchess only knew Lord L— by sight, and had not heard that
he was ill. She knew she was not asleep, for she opened her eyes to get
rid of the vision and, shutting them, saw the same thing again.]
An independent and concordant account has been given to me
orally by a gentleman to whom the Duchess related the dream on
the morning after its occurrence.
In the two cases which follow, we find a specially interesting form
of gradual emergence. The percipient is for some time rendered
anxious, as though by a dim precognition of an accident which no one
could ordinarily foresee, and then when the moment of crisis actually
arrives a telepathic shock transmits the scene—in one case to the
percipient already affected, in the other case (though incorrectly) to
his wife—along with an increment of his own dim distress.
The Subliminal Self. 507
P. 164. T. F. Lekch, M.D.
Indiana Slate Medical Society.
Office of the Vice-President,
Crawfordsville, Ind., August 14th, 1893.
Richard Hodgson, LL.D.,—Dear Sir,—I will say that I suffer from
chronic rheumatism, and at times become a little nervous, caused by
pain, loss of sleep, and worry about business, &c., &c. While in that con
dition I had the experiences to which you refer. My two sons, Ellerslie and
Charlie, had been interested in establishing Sons of Virginia camps through
out the country [in June, 1892], and would occasionally ask to drive my
horse and buggy on their nightly visit to different villages. I thought nor
cared anything for it, until one evening at the supper table Ellerslie said,
" Papa, I want to go to Mace to-night." Mace is six miles east, and there
is a good gravel road leading to it. When he spoke, it flashed through me
that on the way home something would happen to him. I thought of foot
pads, sudden illness, and the like. However, without making known my
fears, I asked who was going with him. He answered, "No one." I told
him to take Charlie along. He said Charlie had an examination the next
day at College, and couldn't go. I told him to get Bart Griffith, a brother
S. of V. He went to see G., and on returning, told me G. couldn't go, he
had an examination also. I told him he ought to get some one. He said
he couldn't. I tried to throw off my fears and started to my office. On
the way I saw a young man, Arthur Wellington, and asked him to go with
my son. He said he would. I took him to Ellerslie and said, " Arthur will
go with you." He answered, "All right," and I dismissed the whole thing,
fears and all, from my mind—at least, I thought I had.
I was busy at the office until nine o'clock, when I went home. My wife
had retired. I got in bed, read a while, turned out the light and went to
sleep, having forgotten that my son was away with the horse and buggy.
About eleven o'clock I awoke with a start and sat up in bed. I had seen,
before waking, Ellerslie driving along, alone in the buggy, the horse trotting
slowly, one mile out of Crawfordsville. I saw the exact spot and recognised
it, so I could have gone to it. In addition, I saw the lightning come down
and strike in the middle of the road about 50 feet in front of the horse. My
first impulse was to go up there. I remembered then that Ellerslie had gone
to Mace, and, as I supposed, taken Arthur W with him. I tried hard
to reason myself out of the alarm into which I had been thrown. I first
thought I would hitch up and drive up to the scene of the lightning stroke
and see if E. was hurt ; then I remembered that I hadn't any horse. I
thought, " They both certainly are not hurt, or at least, the horse will come
home, &c.," but my fears had too deep a hold on me. I awoke my wife and
asked her if Arthur went with Ellerslie. She said, no ; there was no place
for him to stay during the meeting of the camp, and he concluded not to go.
In the midst of my worry Ellerslie came in, and I dismissed the whole thing
and went to sleep without telling any one.
At the breakfast-table Ellerslie said, "I saw something last night that
scared me." On being asked what it was, he said, " While I was coming
home, I saw the lightning come down the road right in front of me, and all
spill over the ground. It looked like it had been poured out of something
508 F. W. H. Myers.
and spilled all around on the ground. It scared me." "Did it scare the
horse ? " some one asked. " He stopped, and T gave him a cut and told him
to get up. It was the prettiest sight I ever saw, it beat any fireworks." I
asked him if he was alone and was he driving in a trot. He said he was. At
noon of that day I asked him where he was when the lightning struck. He
told me, and it was the place I saw in my sleep. I then told my family of
my experience. It was strange that I should have taken alarm at the mention
of his going, and also felt that he would be on his way home, when he would
be exposed to danger ; that I should have forgotten entirely that he was
away—I generally can't go to sleep if any of the family is out ; that I should
see him in the buggy alone, the horse trotting, the exact location in the road,
the lightning come down just where and how he described it ; and when he
told about it, I felt that I had been there and saw it. It was all now to me,
and while I may have had fears of impending danger sometimes in my life,
I don't remember such a remarkable succession of coincidences happening
in my experience.
One day, shortly after the above described incident, soon after dinner, I
was seated in my front room watching a game of Halma, played by the chil
dren and some company that was visiting us, when I had a feeling that there
was a building on fire near by.
I felt so certain of it, that I could hardly restrain myself from, going out
to see if it was the barn. Then it occurred to me that it might be the
house. I thought the people on the street would see it and cry "fire"
if it was. I didn't want any one to know I had such a feeling, and was
holding myself still, when the fire bell rang, and I said to myself, "there it
is." To get out doors without any ado, I said, we must seethe horses run.
On opening the door Miss Bess Smith, sitting in a buggy, said, " Look at
the school-house, it is all on fire in the cupola ! " My own house and
other houses were between me and the fire when I received the impres
sion, making it impossible for me to see the school-house. Was it a co
incidence ? It was the Central school building, three stories high, and
burned down, entailing a groat loss in money as well as great inconvenience
to the schools.
T. F. Leech, M.D.
E. W. Leech.
Mary E. Leech.
Crawfordsville, Ind., April 3rd, 1894.
Richard Hodgson, LL.D.,—Dear Sir,—Yours of the 30th prox. received.
The date you enquire for was June, 1892. Our dear boy Ellerslie has gone
to his long home. He graduated from Wabash College, June 20th, 1893,
and spent the summer and fall of that year at the World's Fair. Came home
and commenced the study of medicine. . . .
One of the last things he did, and the very last time he signed his name
was in bed and when he signed the paper you sent some time in February
T. F. Leech.
The next case is still more remarkable, (as above implied), from its
element of collectivity.
The Subliminal Self. 509
P. 161. Forney, Tex., February 1st, 1894.
Prof. William James,—Dear Sir,—Replying to your request, I find it
hard for me to present to you the "premonition " as it impressed me.
In the first place I will state that I am, or have been, in perfect health.
I am not in the least superstitious and am not subject to hallucinations, and
have never taken but little interest in the investigation of such phenomena.
Three years ago last December my son, then eighteen years of age, left
home to accept a position in a drug house in an adjoining county. I was
perfectly willing for him to go, and never felt a moment's uneasiness about
him. Last summer I took an extended trip east and was gone some time.
During my absence I never once felt the least apprehension about my son or
any member of my family. I am naturally of a buoyant disposition. Some
time last fall, in a vague and indescribable way, I became dissatisfied about
my son. I can't say I was uneasy—only dissatisfied—though I cannot tell
why. I wrote him several letters,—more than I had written him the entire
three years of his absence. Early in November he came home on a visit,
and after he left, I seemed to get more troubled and dissatisfied about him ;
it was not uneasiness or apprehension as to any danger, simply I was dis
satisfied and troubled about him. I cannot explain my feelings. As near
as I can remember, I felt just as I did after my father's death, when I was
quite a small boy. It seemed that the light had suddenly gone out of my
life and there was nothing left for me to live for. A weight like a mill-stone
seemed crushing out my life. I remarked often to my friends that living
seemed to have lost its attraction for me. As December wore along this feel
ing became intensified, and in some way my son seemed to be the centre of
it all. Often I would awake in the night thinking about him, and so
impressed with the emptiness and hollowness of life that I could not sleep.
On the morning of the 19th of December I awoke some time before day. It
seemed that I had reached a crisis. I got up and kindled a fire without dis
turbing any member of my family. In all my life I do not remember ever
doing such a thing before. I sat down by the fire to think. I cannot
explain the awful weight that oppressed me. I did not know what it was,
nor what was the matter with me, yet in no way did I anticipate trouble or
danger to my son. About 7 a.m. my wife awoke, and sitting in the bed,
told me a dream that was strangely impressing her, —in fact it caused her to
awake.
"I thought," she said, "that you were in a strange place and among
people I had never seen before. It was a large family of people, with several
small children who were going to school and a grown-up daughter. I came to
the place in a wagon, but you were there already. I thought you were very
intimate with the family. The large girl sat in your lap and put her arms
round your neck and kissed you repeatedly. While I was wondering where
you had met these people to become so intimate with them, you suddenly
dropped over and died. And I awoke."
I replied to her that I felt wretched enough to wish the dream a reality ;
that I was so troubled about Walter that life had become a burden. After
breakfast I got my writing material, and called my daughter and told her to
write Walter a letter at once and tell him to come home. To be sure and
get her letter off by the first mail train. I then rode out to one of my farms
2 o
510 F. W. H. Myers.
for recreation. About 12 m. I received a despatch to the effect that my son
was badly hurt and was unconscious. I boarded a freight train and hurried
at once to the scene, with the understanding that my wife and daughter come
later on the passenger. Now, right here comes in a remarkable feature in
that strange matter. Through some misunderstanding they failed to catch
the train and had to get private conveyance and come directly across the
country. By their changing horses at each little town, they were enabled to
reach my son by 11 o'clock at night. The accident had happened near the
residence of a most excellent farmer, whose daughter my son had been long
visiting. To the house of this gentleman he was taken, as it was not only
near by, but was the house of his best friends. He had a large family of
children who were all deeply attached to my son. Of a truth, I could not
say that we suffered more than did those people because of my son's death.
When my wife entered the room where our boy lay unconscious, this girl I
speak of was standing at the head of his bed weeping. She gave a glance
around, and then whispered in my ear, '' This is my dream ! This is the
room I saw you in—these are the people I dreamed of." Even her trip there
in a wagon was a verification of her dream, and the family were just such
people as she described to me—" very plain, but most excellent country
people." The very nature of the country through which she travelled was
in perfect fulfilment of her dream, as was also the scenery surrounding the
house.
In conclusion I will say that the heaviness of feeling that so oppressed
me has all disappeared. I have never felt that peculiar, that indescribable
weight that was crushing out my very life, since Sunday morning, the 17th
of December. Of course, I feel sad because of my loss, but it is altogether
a different feeling. rp j. Ivey
Mrs. Ivey adds the following corroboration :—
February l±th, 1894.
Prof. James,—It was after daylight on the morning of 17th December,
1893, that I had the dream. I thought that I was at a strange place. I had
gone there in a wagon. I had no recollection of my husband going with me,
but he was there and seemed to be a particular friend of tho family. It was
a large family, and I was very much struck with their manner and dress and
general appearance. I observed the house closely and the scantiness of its
furniture and the slip-shod way it seemed to be kept. The children were
getting lessons, and would go to my husband for assistance. The largest one
of the children, a girl about budding into womanhood, sat on my husband's
lap and was very affectionate. I was not the least jealous of this girl, only I
wondered how in the world came my husband so intimate with those people
whom I had never seen or even heard of before. They did not seem to pay
any attention to me, but to devote themselves entirely to my husband, who
seemed to be the centre of attraction. Suddenly my husband dropped over
and died,—and then I seemed to be at home, and awoke.
About 12 m. the same day, we got a telegram from Copeville, Tex., that
our son was fatally injured, and to come at once. My husband went immedi
ately on a freight train. Through some misunderstanding I had to go in a
private conveyance across the country. As soon as I entered the house I
thought of my dream, for it was all just as I had dreamt, even the house
The Subliminal Self. 511
and its surroundings. The peculiar dress and manner of the people, their
scantiness of furniture and negligent housekeeping, even to the children
getting their lessons, and the larger girl who wept over our son like her
heart would break—all were just as I had dreamed that very morning No
one could have told that the dead boy was not their son instead of ours.
We learned that he was indeed an intimate and most particular friend of the
family ; that he spent more of his time there than anywhere else, that all
the children looked on him as a brother, and that the larger girl loved him
more than a brother. With the single exception of putting my husband in
; place of my son, the dream was a real and vivid anticipation of the actual.
A. L. Ivey.
[Even this great inaccuracy—the substitution of the husband for
the son—does not, I think, destroy the impression of a true relation
between the actual and the visionary scene.]
In a subsequent letter Mr. Ivey gives some further particulars :—
Forney, Texas, April 20th, 1895.
Mr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir, —Replying to yours of the 12th
inst. I will say :—
1st. My son was hurt about 11.30 a.m. Sunday, December 17th, 1893.
2nd. I woke about 3 a.m. the same morning, but not being able to go
back to sleep from some undefinable cause, I got up about 4 o'clock and
' kindled a fire and remained up.
3rd. He was returning from church with two otheryoung men in a buggy
when the horses took fright and, running away, came in contact with a tree
which, striking my son, produced the fatal injuries from which he died.
4th. The blow produced concussion of the brain, from which he was
unconscious the greater part of the time. He died about la.m., Tuesday
19th.
After more than a year I know of nothing 1 can add to the letter I wrote
Prof. James. I believe it contained as near the truth as it was possible for
me to write. As near as I can remember, for six weeks or more before the
accident I was to a great extent two different distinct persons. During the
day, I was my normal self—satisfied—interested in my business and going
along as usual. But at night I was altogether another person. I would
generally take a short nap and then awake with the most awful feeling of
weight and depression that it ia possible to conceive of. I could seldom sleep
all night, (though I am usually a sound sleeper), I would lie and toss vainly
trying to sleep—feeling all the time that there was nothing more to live for
—that all that was worth living for had gone out of my life—that I had lived
too long—and that my life was nothing henceforth but a burden. When I
would awake after a short nap, £ felt like I imagine a person must feel who
was to have been hanged that day and realised the dreadful fact immediately
after awakening. This expresses it better than anything I can think of. I
once called the attention of a friend to my singular condition—it was
something unusual in my life—I couldn't understand it—I remarked to him
that I was so low-spirited as soon as I went to bed that I could not rest, and
that I could see no sense in, it as my business was in good condition. I
2 o 2
512 F. W. H. Myers.
thought possibly that I was going to be sick, as I was only troubled at night
and was as cheerful and full of life during the day as I usually am. I don't
know, for some time, that this state of mind was in any way associated with
my son, but gradually he became the centre, as it were, around which the
awfulness seemed to crystallise. On Sunday morning, December 17th, I
awoke about 3 o'clock and the feeling was so heavy that I could not stand it
and got up and made me a fire. As soon as breakfast was over I got pen and
paper and ordered my daughter to write to Walter to come home at once.
I remember well walking the floor after breakfast ; and, turning to a friend
who was at my house, I remarked to him, " Jo, I am troubled to death about
Walter—I see ahead of him—and there is ruin." I then called my daughter
and, getting material and placing it on the table before her, ordered her to
write to Walter then to come home at once.
Understand though, I never dreamed of any accident happening to him
that day—I never thought of his getting hurt, or I would have telegraphed
to him. I was simply troubled to death about him and couldn't tell why. It
never once crossed my mind that he was in any danger at all. 1 had no
premonition of any evil happening to him. 1 was simply troubled to death
and he seemed to be the centre of it. I am a farmer. Buckle says that
farmers and sailors are the most superstitious of people. Possibly this may
be true, buc I don't think I am the least so. I never had anything in the
way of a premonition in my life before, though I once had a remarkable
experience in connection with my first child who died at nine years of age ;
still it was in no sense a premonition. In the whole range of human experi
ence I know of no class of phenomena so inexplicable as premonitions.
Even if Spiritualism be true, I cannot see how spirit intercourse can explain it.
T. F. Ivity.
This case seems to tell against the view that the father's trans
cendental foresight discerned the accident long beforehand. It
suggests rather that some intelligence to which the impending accident
was long previously known may have endeavoured to inform the father,
but only when the accident was just about to occur was able to
impress the father still more strongly, and also to inform the mother
of the event, though with much symbolic confusion.
Can we suppose that the boy's own spirit was thus aware before
hand of his own impending death, and was able to transmit the
knowledge to the father, although not to the boy's own supraliminal
consciousness,—with the desire, perhaps, that the father should avert
the accident by summoning the boy home 1 Far-fetched though this
sounds, we have a few cases of so-called " banshees " where the fact
that all the family except the dying man himself are roused by the
alarming sounds, looks as though those premonitory sounds were some
how caused by the spirit which is about to quit the flesh (see Proceedings,
Vol. V., p. 307). But the evidence for "banshees" and "doubles"
is too scanty to justify insistence on this view, and we shall presently
find that the agency of disembodied spirits is more often suggested.
The Subliminal Self. 513
I must first, however, quote a few more cases where the origin of
the precognitive vision remains quite obscure. I will begin with a
trivial incident, where possibly a full telepathic knowledge of the minds
of others might have led to an expectation of the meeting which
actually occurred. This resembles an extreme instance of the " home
coming " cases, where a man returning to his house is seen before he
actually arrives.
I P. CI. 129.
From Captain Parker, through the Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Hythe Vicarage, Southampton, April 16th, 1889.
Dear Mr. Fryer,—On referring to the only notes I have, I find I cannot
fix the exact date of the occurrence of which you want particulars. It was,
however, during the latter half of June, 1886, as I find it was then that the
man arrived whose coming I dreamt about.
I was then in charge of a Division of Coastguard, and it was a part of my
duties to visit the various coastguard stations within the limits of that
division of the coast. The dream, as nearly as I can remember it, was as
follows : that I was visiting an outlying station where there were several
coasting vessels moored, their heads out seaward, and sterns secured to the
shore with hawsers. Two navy bluejackets landed from one of the craft,
, quite -to my surprise, and on asking where they were from, one of them said
he had been sent from Wick for duty at Sandhaven (a village in my division).
The details of the dream were so vividly impressed on my mind on
waking, which is quite unusual with me, that I told my housekeeper about
it at or about breakfast time—as far as I know the only time I ever told her
any dream at all- and for the time thought no more of it, but soon after, I
think the same day, when the post came I received an official letter appoint
ing a man from Wick for duty at Sandhaven.
I was so astonished at this coincidence that I at once said to my house
keeper :
" You remember the dream I told you about a man coming from Wick for
Sandhaven. Here is his official appointment."
A further curious coincidence in connection with the above is that in the
ordinary course of events this man would have proceeded from Wick to
Aberdeen by steamer, and from thence north by rail, and in fact that was
how he was ordered to go ; but on this occasion, which sometimes happened,
the steamer stopped off Fraserburgh and landed the man there without my
knowledge at the time, until I found a strange bluejacket at my quarters,
and on asking who it was and where he had come from, he told me he had
landed from the steamer from Wick, and was sent for duty at Sandhaven.
At that moment all the details of the dream again came to my mind, and the
fact of the man landing on the coast instead of coming by rail was also in
accordance with the details of the dream. It is hardly necessary for me to
remark that nothing occurred beforehand that would lead me to expect a man
being sent from Wick, or I should not have thought that the dream was
curious or worth a moment's thought.
514 F. W. H. Myers.
I have no doubt my housekeeper remembers something of this occurrence,
as she has a better memory than I have for most things. I have not written
to her on the subject, as I thought you might prefer to have her evidence
without any reminder from me to her about it. Y F H Parker.
The following is from Captain Parker's housekeeper. If her recollection
is exact, there was more coincidence in the man's aspect than Captain Parker
has described.
Fraserburgh, April 18th, 1889.
In answer to your inquiry about Captain Parker's dream, I remember him
telling me about it. He said that in his dream he left the house, and soon
after met the coastguard man, and asked him if he was the man that was
come to Sandhaven station from Wick, and he said, "I am." Mr. Parker
said, when telling me about it next morning, '' How I wish to see that man. "
He saw him soon, to his astonishment, the exact image and likeness as in his
dream. Elizareth Macdonald.
Here is a " home-coming " case, interesting as being collective,
although, as in many out-of-door cases, the hypothesis of mistaken
identity seems a possible one.
P. 167. Coon Rapids,
April 2Uh, 1892.
Mr. Hodgson,—Dear Sir, —One Sunday in the latter part of March, my
son went down street to practice a cornet solo with a lady pianist. After he
had been gone a short time, I got up from my seat and went to the window,
and looked in the direction he had gone. I was not thinking of his coming for
some time, yet I saw him as plainly as I ever did, coming at a little distance.
I said to the family, "Here comes the Professor." My daughter-in-law
leaned back in her chair to look out of the window. She said, " Yes, there
he comes." We looked at him a few seconds, and turned from the window.
What seems queer is we failed to notice his not coming in, or to say anything
about it. I don't remember thinking of him again until he really came some
time afterwards. As usual I thought very little about it until next day. I
then enquired of him, and he assured me he went directly where he started
to go, and remained there an hour and a half, when he came directly home.
I told him I saw his ghost. He laughed, as they always do. The third day
afterwards I chanced to look out and saw him (not his ghost) coming in the
very same place. This was a very windy day. Now, here is something
strange about it, if I can explain it as it appeared.
The Sunday that I saw his ghost was a calm day, but he appeared as
though the wind was blowing his clothes all to one side, and his head was
drawn down inside his coat collar, as if to protect it from the wind. [He]
had the appearance of being out in a strong wind, just as he really was the
third day after. He seemed to be walking fast, and yet did not advance a
step. After thinking it over for days, I bethought me to ask my daughter-
in-law how he appeared to her. She described him exactly as I saw him,
and the same strong wind and bending his head.
M. E. Vradenburg.
The Subliminal Self. 515
Mr. Hodgson,—I saw the apparition my mother-in-law has told you of
just as she describes it.
Delia Vradenburg.
Received March 19th, 1894 :—
My brother went out to practise on the cornet with a pianist, as mother
has stated, and when he had been gone a short time, mother went to the
window and says, "Here comes the Professor ! " My wife also looked out
and saw him, as she testified in mother's statement. We all talked about his
returning so soon, but did not notice his failing to come in then. But when
; he returned, he declared he was not out at that time, but had come directly
home after practice. Remember my wife and mother seeing him on the
third day after, really coming in the same place, and appearing as they saw
him first, the wind blowing his clothes the same way.
E. H. Vradenburg.
The next case is a remote one, but it involves incidents not likely
to have been forgotten. Unfortunately, no corroboration is now
obtainable.
P. 145. Dream.
The percipient, Miss K. M. Cleary, writes :—
Albert-road, Carrickfergus, Co. Antrim.
t February 15th, 1892.
I will first state that I am a very healthy woman, and have been so all
my life. I am not in the least nervous. My occupation is that of head
teacher in one of the Board's Model Schools.
[After giving an account of an occasion when she saw an apparition of one
of her assistants, who was absent at the time, and another occasion when
she saw the apparition of an unknown person, Miss Cleary says :—]
When I was about fifteen and at a convent boarding school, I dreamt,
without any cause that could inspire it, that my father was ill, of details
connected with it, of his death, of results which followed. When the bell
rang for getting up, and the nun came round to wake us, I, who had been
roused from my painful chain of visions, was sitting in my nightdress on the
side of the bed, and so faint-looking that the lady insisted I should return to
bed. But this 1 would not do. I was too terrified, and yet so glad it was
" only a dream." This was Friday. On Sunday morning came the bad
news : "Kate, —Father is very ill ; pray for him." And so commenced the
chain of sad realities pictured so graphically to me.
In answer to our inquiries, Miss Cleary wrote.further : —
February 26th, 1892.
In reference to the dream previous to my father's death, you ask me if I
can give further details, dates, and corroboration, and " did it happen at the
beginning of his illness, or before, or after it ? "
Well, I think the only important detail I did not mention, or, at least,
lay stress on, is that it was the sound of the bell for rising which broke the
chain of pictures that were being presented to me—that I was sent for to go
516 F. W. H. Myers.
home (we lived in Roscrea, Co. Tipp. , where the convent is) ; that I did go
home ; that I turned to go to the bedroom that had always been occupied by
him ; that mother, close behind me, motioned me to an opposite room, which
had never been used as a bedroom ; that I went in, saw the bed in a certain
position, head towards this wall, foot that ; that Dr. R. was towards the foot
of the bed, holding in his hand a white china tea-cup, with lilac flower
pattern, one of a set we had ; that on the window was a very peculiar new
style of lace curtain, the pattern of which I had never seen anywhere. I
dreamt he died, and of the grief and terrible trouble ; and about this part
there was, as it were, a cloud, and one distinct figure loomed from it—that of
an uncle, father's brother, Dr. James Cleary, of Dublin, (27, N. Earl-street),
deceased since. I saw, or felt, that James took my only brother back with
him to Dublin.
Every detail of the dream was verified. Now, with me, this dream is
unique in, if I may express myself so, its span.
The loud, rapid tones of the hand-bell rung in the dormitory roused me,
and mechanically 1 sprang from bed, scarcely awake ; in a daze or stupor 1
was sitting on the side of it. The nun whose duty it was to go from bed to
bed to make sure we had all arisen, found me as I described, noted my
appearance, shook me a little, told me I seemed very ill, and should lie down
again. This aroused me quite. I would not have gone back to that bed
just then for worlds. 1 told her I was not ill, that I had been dreaming, and
dreamt that my father was dead ; but she " would not listen to such
nonsense, superstition, and folly, &c." (She is dead, and there is no one
who can corroborate.) I may have mentioned it to a companion ; I did not
attempt to do so again to any of the nuns.
At the time 1 had this dream I had every reason to believe that my father
was in perfect health ; and he urns in perfect health. He was medical doctor
to the house. I had seen him a few days before from a window, walking in
the grounds with the Mother or Superioress. He looked then, as he always
did, the embodiment of health and good humour. In comparing dates and
events afterwards with my mother, who, unhappily, is no more, I found that
the dream occurred on the eve of his first day's indisposition. He was
attending a fever patient some miles from the town, got a severe wetting,
which predisposed him to the infection, which he caught. He was but 5
days ill. He died on the 19th July, 1853. I am now 52, therefore I was not
so much as 15 when he died. His death changed the whole course of my
life, or rather, shunted me quite on other lines.
On Wednesday morning 1 had the dream. On the same Wednesday he
got the wetting. Wednesday night he felt nervous and unwell, and had a
hot foot-bath before going to bed. Thursday, I presume he did not go out.
I'm sure he lay for the firsftime on Friday. Friday evening I first had any
intimation of his illness. Then, my aunt, his sister, who was a nun there
and one of my class mistresses, told me that mother had sent word of it,
with a request that the nuns would pray for him, but she added : " There is
no cause for alarm." I recollect nothing particular about Saturday.
On Sunday morning I was called away from the breakfast table and told
I was to dress for going home, to see my father, who had become worse. I
went and found as I had seen in my dream.
The Subliminal Self. 517
Mother told me afterwards that she was greatly shocked by my standing
as I did at the threshold of the door, and that t seemed not to be able to
keep my eyes from the windows. The room and everything in the room was
as I had seen them in my dream.
I know that father had been thinking of me particularly during the early
part of the week in which he took ill, as I had had an earache. He sent me
a drug for it, which cured it at once, but he was not aware of the success of
his remedy. He asked me then, durmg this interval of consciousness while
I made my short visit, how was the pain in the ear ? I said : " Your little
, bottle cured it." (I had the same little bottle for many years.) He then
kissed me and put his hand on my head and blessed me. The doctor then
almost pulled me away, and told mother to take me from the room.
I remember well how unnaturally calm I was, and this calm, or apparent
insensibility, remained throughout his short illness, and when I heard of his
death. Mother used often to remark how strange it all was, and how
extraordinary that I, who was the only child absent when he became ill,
should be the only one who received his sad farewell, and, as she said, " It
was fitting too, for I was his favourite child." j£. jyj Cleary.
It will be observed that the day of the week on which the dream occurred,
is given differently in the two accounts. Whether Dr. Cleary's illness had
actually begun or not at the time, it appears that the dream took place
during a period when at least there was no reason for special anxiety about
. him, even on the part of his family at home, and when Miss Cleary herself
had no reason for anxiety at all.
The case which I next quote, sent to us by Lord Wenlock, was
omitted by Mrs. Sidgwick on the ground that an accident of this kind
to a railway official is not rare enough to raise the incident clearly
above chance coincidence. While partly agreeing, I think, neverthe
less that the case, as now further corroborated, is one on which the
reader should have the opportunity of forming his own opinion.
P. 368.
From Thomas Carbert, Porter at Escrick Station, through Lord Wenlock,
Escrick Park, York.
At the end of February or beginning of March, 1883, I dreamt I saw
Mr. Thompson, the station-master, lying with his legs cut off, close to a heap
of coals against a small cabin at the back of the station. I dreamt that the
accident happened to him by what we call the "pick-up " goods train, and
that it occurred in the month of May.
I told my dream to Mr. Thompson the next morning, and, though he
laughed over it, it seemed to make him uneasy.
On the 18th of May, 1883, Mr. Thompson was run over by the " pick
up " goods train, and both his legs were cut off.
The accident happened at the back of the cabin just where I dreamt I
had seen him lying.
I have taken this down from the lips of the above-named Thomas
Carbert.—Wenlock, February Uth, 1884.
518 F. W. H. Myers.
Further enquiry has much improved the evidence in this case. Thomas
Carbert, who has now been moved to llillington, writes under date October
7th, 1895 :—
" I did dream it, and told Mr. Thompson of it, and he told Mr. Hartas
Foxton of it the same morning. Mr. Thompson said it was three months to
May yet. As to what made me say it would happen in May, something
seemed to say it would be in May in my dream."
Mr. Foxton also writes as follows from The Grange, Escrick, October
12th, 1895 :—
Dear Sir, —The incident you mention is vividly impressed upon my
memory. One morning upon my arrival at Escrick station to catch the
8 train, Thompson and Carbert were together in the booking-office, and after
the customary greeting Thompson said to me, " Master (he always called me
'Master'), what do you think Carbert here has been telling me? He had a
dream last night, and that I have only so long to live " (mentioning the time,
either two months or three). I replied, " Why, if you have only that time to
live you must make the very best use of it ; at the same time, if you know
your days are numbered, you may still have longer to live than some of us."
This, of course, I said half in jest, and the train coming in the incident
ended. But 1 noticed particularly that Carbert seemed quite downhearted
and distressed when Thompson was relating the dream to me, and I must
say it made some indefinable impression upon me, so much so that when I
heard of the accident to Thompson, the dream and its ending flashed
vividly back to me.
You are at liberty to make use of this letter in any way you choose,either
publicly or privately. Hartas Foxton.
For a reason similar to Mrs. Sidgwick's,—namely, the frequency
of accidents in a miner's life,—I have omitted several premonitions
of such events ;—premonitions pointing mainly to individual deaths,
but sometimes taking the form of some strange sight or sound, —an
aridusfragor in the heart of the earth,—which is held to intimate
wide-spread disaster to the mine itself. A layman cannot judge as to
how far the very conditions which make the danger may also cause the
unusual sound. The following case, however, does not seem open to
these general objections, since the danger was one voluntarily incurred
by a man above ground.
P. 124. The Pit Explosion at Tredegar.
From Tfte South Wales DaUy News,
November 11th, 1884.
A curious circumstance was narrated, and its accuracy vouched for, on
Monday, at Tredegar, in connection with the death of the man Pugh. He,
it will be remembered, persisted, in spite of the remonstrances of the police,
in pressing forwards to the mouth of the pit, offering to give his assistance,
which, as he was under the influence of liquor, was refused. He, however,
The Subliminal Self. 519
went too close to the edge, fell down the shaft, and was dashed to atoms.
He, it seems, was on intimate terms with a brewer at the Cambrian Inn,
named Phillip Williams. Phillip Williams had a dream on Saturday night
that he saw Pugh approach a coal pit, into which he fell and was killed.
Pugh was drinking at the Cambrian on Saturday, and then Williams told
him his dream. When the explosion was known at Tredegar he again saw
Pugh, and warned him not to go near the pit, but Pugh started off direct to
the scene of the calamity. His death took place shortly afterwards.
From Mr. Phillip Williams to Mr. C. Downing.
Cambrian Inn, Tredegar, December 29th, 1884.
The unfortunate man Phillip Pugh, who met his sad end by falling down
Pochins Pit, I knew very well for years. And on Friday night, prior to the
explosion, which occurred between 9 and 10 o'clock on Saturday night [the
time is correct, F. P.], I dreamt that I saw Pugh going towards the pit, and
falling down, and I was struggling with him to prevent him falling down,
but could not prevent him ; I was in great trouble, and when I awoke 1 was
in a bath of perspiration. On the following evening between six and seven
o'clock, I met Pugh and told these words.
'' 1 have been in awful trouble about you last night. I dreamt that I saw
you going towards the pit and falling down and I was doing all in my power
to prevent you, but could not. I hope to God nothing will happen to you ;
be careful, it may be a warning, as you are working in a very dangerous place. "
'The answer he gave me : " Oh, Williams," with a smile, "there's nothing
going to happen to me ; don't I look well ? " and directly he heard of the
explosion he ran down towards the pit, which is three and a-half miles from
Tredegar, and when he came to the pit's mouth he wanted to give his assist
ance and was pushed back several times by the authorities, but would still
come forward, and said that he would be the first man that would go down
the pit ; and it so happened. I may tell you that he worked in the pit and
was a very plucky young man. I told it to several people before it happened
and have got two names and addresses below, which I can vouch for their
respectability. Philmp Williams.
Joseph Evans, miner, 79, High Street, Tredegar.
Emily Phillips, proprietress of Cambrian Inn.
From Mrs. Phillips.
Cambrian Inn, January 4th, 1885.
In answer to your letter concerning my name appearing in a letter sent
by Mr. Phillip Williams respecting his dream, I beg to say that what he has
written to you is quite correct, he having told me and others in the morning
before the explosion took place. -c t,
c r Emily Phillips.
From Joseph Evans.
79, High Street, Tredegar, January 3rd, 1885.
I heard Phillip Williams telling Pugh of his dream, and what has been
written is quite correct. Joseph Evans.
520 F. W. H. Myers.
Mr. Phillip Williams writes further as follows :—
Cambrian Inn, Tredegar, January 19th, 1885.
I may tell you that I am not in the habit of dreaming, but have dreamt
on several occasions, but it never troubled my mind, and could scarcely make
anything out of them in the morning when I awoke. I dreamt a dream about
30 years ago, when I was a boy in school, and in that case I was instrumental
in saving a young man's life. [Account given ; but incident too remote.]
Another kind of accident is prefigured in the following case. It
will be observed that Mr. Coburn (known to Dr. Hodgson as a good '
witness) remembers to have told two persons of the dream before the
event.
P. 165. Upper Melbourne, Quebec,
December 14th, 1891.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Sir,—Yours of December 11th received, and I
beg to hand you the premonition referred to in my former letter. I have
made it as short and concise as possible. Newiands Coburn.
A Peculiar Dream or Premonition.
In the year 1875, I think, one night I dreamed that my wife had gone to
a friend's, who lived just across the river St. Francis (which here is about-
750 feet wide) at 11 o'clock a.m., and was going to stay for dinner. But on,)
getting there, she having walked down the river and across the public bridge,
and up again to her friend's, she found the house open, but nobody at home.
So she went down to the river bank, and called to me from the other side to
swim across to her and bring some refreshment in a tin can, which I
immediately undertook to do ; but just as I was nearing a gravel bar in the
middle of the river, but while just on the deepest place, the can, which was
in my left luind, would continually keep drawing me under, and I would keep
swallowing some water. So I was obliged to strike back for the home shore,
which I reached in safety, amid great anxiety of my wife, who was watching
me from the shore. The dream was so vivid that it woke me, and my
stomach was sore from the supposed swallowing and belching out again of
the water.
I turned over and went to sleep, but in the morning I still felt the effect
of the dream on the muscles of the stomach, and I told my vrife then and 1
there of it, and how my stomach felt. And after breakfast I went to
business, and was just telling a customer whom I was serving of the peculiar
dream, when a neighbour rushed into the store and said he was afraid that
there was trouble down at the river, as a boy on the other side (just where
my wife was in the dream), was running up and down, yelling and
gesticulating, and another naked one on this side was crying and calling
for help.
It was just 11 a.m. I started at once for the river, throwing off my coat
and vest as I ran, secured a boat and a young man to help me run it out,
and after the boy pointed out where a companion had sunk for the last time,
a few minutes before, I dived down in 12 to 15 feet of water just off the
The Subliminal Self. 521
gravel bar, and grasped the arm of the drowned young man with my left
band, and brought him to the surface, only to find that my companion had
allowed the boat I had dived off to drift quite a distance from me. I then
had the same struggle to get the body and myself to another boat that had
just put out from shore that I had in my dream, swallowing and then
belching out a lot of water ; and nothing but the encouraging shouts from
those on shore, who had hastily gathered (my wife among them) nerved me
to the struggle. I then in reality suffered the same pain which I felt in my
dream, and the spot where the young man was drowned was just where the
"can" troubled me in my dream, and where I turned.
N. Coburn.
Upper Melbourne, Quebec, September 4th, 1893.
Richard Hodgson, LL.D.,—Dear Sir,—. . . My wife, to whom I
related my dream before the drowning took place, died a few months after
I wrote you.
You will pardon me, if I give you my explanation of the dream and
drowning. I should have said that the young man had just come to visit
friends on the opposite side of the river, and you will notice my rough
diagram herewith, that the R.R. station of the G.T.R. is below where I
live, and the young man arrived about 1.30 a.m. (say midnight) and was
obliged to walk back up the river on the opposite side from where I lived,
and I feel sure that the time of my dream was when he was passing up (say
? a.m.) on the opposite side of the river. He went to bed at his friend's and
did not get up until late, and immediately went to the river with some other
young men for a bath and swim. Newlands Coburn.
The next case is my sole example of that premonitory vision of
coffins which has often formed an important element in popular
superstition.
P. 193. Through Mrs. Baker (wife of Lieut. Col. F. Baker Pasha, V.C.).
June 22nd, 1891.
A rather strange thing appeared in our family some years since, in
1887. One day my sister left the room in which she and I had been sitting
and went into the drawing room. I immediately heard her call out, and on
going to see what was the matter, found her very much frightened, at having,
as she said, seen a coffin in front of the piano. Three weeks afterwards
another sister of ours died, and previous to the funeral the coffin was brought
down and placed before the piano, in exactly the spot on which it had been
seen by the sister who had the prevision of it. H C M H
"The Buffs."
[The subject is painful to Miss H., and she has not sent her own
account.]
My next case shall be one which concerns not death but birth ;—
an elaborate prefigurement of the circumstances of an accouchement ;
including the observation, (independently confirming a suggestion
522 F. W. H. Myers.
advanced above), that when the moment of crisis came, the percipient,—
passing again, as I conceive, to some slight extent into a " secondary "
state,—was conscious of an unexpected ease and capacity in the per
formance of the duties which the dream had indicated as about to fall
to her.
P. 186. The Post-Dispatch, 513, Olive Street, St. Louis,
February 24th, 1891.
Mr. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I called on Mrs. Sara Weiss, of 3,710a,
Olive Street, yesterday afternoon. She was suffering with laryngitis and \
catarrh, and was unable to speak except in a whisper, and said that her
delay in writing out an account of her dream was due to her sickness. She
told me of the dream, as also of several other seemingly remarkable experi
ences, and promised me that she would write an account of them as soon as
she improved a little. I am to call on her again for the report in a week or
ten days, and if I find that the report is not yet written, I shall write it my
self and give it to her to sign. She appears to me to be sincere, and if her
story can be corroborated by several other persons, as she says it can be,
the case will, I think, be a very good one for your collection of " occult
wonders."
Mrs. W. dreamed on Friday night, January 21st, 1883, that her daughter,
Mrs. ChaunceyH.C.,had been confined and that she had acted as accoucheuse,
the doctor whom they expected not having arrived. After the birth of the
child, a doctor arrived, but not their regular family doctor. He was a youngj
country-looking fellow with black eyes and hair, and wearing grey pants,
black vest and coat, and a blue satin necktie with a peculiar coral figure in
it. This was the dream in outline, and she told it with many details at
breakfast next morning to her daughter and son-in-law. Four days after,
Tuesday, January 25th, the child was born just as she had dreamed it had
been, even to all particulars, and after it was all over, her son-in-law brought
in a young doctor exactly resembling the man she had seen in her dream,
face, dress, and everything. But at first she didn't think of the dream, and
really thought she had seen him in real life before. She claims that she
never once thought of the dream until the child had been born and the doctor
had been there some time. None of the family had ever seen this doctor
until that day, and Mr. C. had tried to get five other doctors before he called
at this doctor's office. When Mr. C. went down town Saturday morning,
January 22nd, he told his friend, H. B., about it, and the latter told his
wife and W. B., and a Miss Slaughter called on Mrs. Weiss that afternoon
and they all talked about it. All of these people are still living except Miss
Slaughter. The B.'s live in New York City, and the C.'s in Chicago. Mr.
B. is manager and vice-president of the United States Express Company,
with headquarters at Chicago. In January, 1881, he was private secretary
to Albert Fink, president of the Railroad Freight Pool, and lives in N.Y.
City. Mrs. Weiss was living then, as now, in St. Louis, but was visiting her
daughter in N.Y. Mrs. Weiss tells me that Mr. B. objects to the use of his
name in connection with the matter, as it would be embarrassing to him in
his business, but I think he might be prevailed upon to answer a few ques
tions, if assured that his name would not be published. His wife will let her
The Subliminal Self. 523
name be used if the committee want it, Mrs. Weiss says. The B.'s have not
been heard from yet. Mrs. W. told me Mr. B.'s business, but I don't recall
it just now. Mrs. W. talks like, and has every appearance of being a well-
bred lady, and used good language in her conversation. I was favourably
impressed.
W. A. Kelsoe, 1,331, South 13th Street.
1,331, South 13th Street, St. Louis, March 16th, 1891.
Mr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—Mrs. Sara Weiss handed me a
written statement of that dream a few days ago with her name and address
attached, and I have had a type-written copy of it made for you, which I here
with send you. I am at liberty to send you the original or a copy, and send
the [latter] because it is more easily read. I see that Mrs. W. omitted to
give the date of the dream, and I have supplied the omission from memory,
though I am not positive whether the month was January or February. Mrs.
W. asks that the names of the C. 's and B.'s be not used in any publication
until their consent has been obtained, so please use only initial letters. She
makes no objection to that. She is also anxious for you to obtain their state
ments regarding her dream, but hardly knows the best way to go about it.
I suggested to her that perhaps if you sent Mr. C. and Mr. B. a copy of
some report of the P.R. Society you could get them interested in the subject
in that way and then secure their statements afterwards, and she thought
that might be done. It may be that Mr. B. would offer no objection at the
outset.
Mrs. W. omitted to say in her report that the nurse was now living here
in St. Louis, and could not corroborate the dream. She remembers hearing
Mrs. \V. and her daughter speak of the dream at the time of the birth of the
child, or rather when the young doctor was there immediately afterwards,
and of hearing them say that the affair came off just as Mrs. W. had dreamed
it would, but she doesn't remember having heard any of the family speak of
the dream prior to the child's birth. I will try and see this nurse and get her
statement, as I think it will be of some value, particularly if you fail to
obtain any corroborative statements from the B.'s or C.'s. Her name is
Mary something, but I don't know her address.
Account of Mrs. Sara Weiss.
The dream I have promised to relate is remarkable, inasmuch as it ante
dated the fulfilment of it nearly four days.
In October, of 1881, I left my home in St. Louis, going to New York
City, to be with my daughter, Mrs. C. H. C, during her expected accouche
ment. Dr. Ranney, an old well-known M.D., was the family physician. His
office, as well as that of Mr. C, was far down town, while the family resided
on cor. 124th Street, and Lexington Avenue. It was arranged with Dr.
Ranney that he should come at once when called. The nurse was engaged,
and everything put in order, so that there might be no delay or confusion.
I think that on Saturday, the 22nd of the month of January following, a
heavy storm of snow and sleet prevailed over the region of N.Y. so that tele
graph lines were weighted down with sleet and broken to such an extent in
N.Y. City that for a time there was a break in the service.
524 F. W. H. Myers.
On Friday night I dreamed that my daughter's labour came on, that,
owing to some cause not clearly defined, we failed to get word to Mr. C. ,
who was to bring the doctor ; that we sent for the nurse, who came ; that as
the hours passed, and neither Mr. C. or the doctor came, we both grew
frightened ; that at last I heard Mr. C. on the stairs and cried to him, " Oh,
Chan, for heaven's sake get a doctor, Ada may be confined at any moment ; "
that he rushed away, and I returned to the bedside of my daughter, who was
in agony of mind and body ; that suddenly I seemed to know what to do,
that I delivered her, attended to her and the child, and that shortly after
wards Mr. C. came, bringing a tall young doctor, having brown eyes, dark
hair, ruddy, brunette complexion, and dressed in black coat, grey trousers
and grey vest, and wearing a bright blue cravat picked out with coral sprigs.
The cravat attracted my attention particularly. The young doctor pro
nounced Mrs. C. properly attended to and left. Then, after awhile, Dr.
Rauney came, saying that he had been away and could not get back, but that
everything relating to Mrs. C. was all right.
In the morning at breakfast, I related my dream to Mr. C. and my
daughter, but none of us attached any importance to it. But as the days
passed, the dream forced itself upon me so persistently that on Monday I said
to Mr. C. : "I wish you could arrange some way for us to get word to you
quickly, for with the telegraph lines down, what can we do in case Ada should
be taken sick and you away ?" Mr. C. smiled and said : "I guess you are
worried over that dream, but to satisfy you, I will write a telegram, and leave
it with instructions at the district office. If the lines are not in order, they
will send a boy to me."
I have forgotten to say that Mr. C. on Saturday told a friend, Mr. H. B.,
of my dream, that in the evening Mr. B. called, and jestingly spoke of the
dream ; that on the afternoon of Saturday Mrs. B. and a Miss Evans called
and my daughter related the dream to them. On Tuesday between 9 and 10
o'clock my daughter was taken with labour. Immediately that we knew her
condition, I sent the maid with the telegram to the district office, and for
the nurse, who arrived a half hour or so before the child was born. As time
passed and it became apparent that the services of an accoucheur might be
needed at any moment, both my daughter and I were greatly frightened, for
I had no knowledge whatever of how to proceed, as in my dream, so I ran to
the window to see if Mr. C. and the doctor might be in sight, then back to
my daughter. At last I heard Mr. C. on the stairs, and cried to him to
bring some doctor quickly, as Ada was on the point of being confined. Mr.
C. rushed off and I returned to my daughter. She looked at me in terror,
and said, "Oh what shall we do ? " Then came what I shall be glad to have
explained. In a moment all sense of claim left me, and all sense of sympathy
beyond what a very cool and experienced doctor might feel. I heard myself
saying in a peremptory fashion, " Ada, don't be afraid, I know just what to
do, all will go well." She looked at me in a surprised way and replied : "If
you are not afraid, I won't be." The nurse was panic-stricken, and ran from
the room. I went after her and in a manner foreign to me, directed her how
to assist me—I do not deem it proper or necessary to go into details. Suffice
it to say that I succeeded perfectly, although there were complications which
might have resulted seriously. Mr. C. went to seven doctors' offices before
The Subliminal Self. 525
he found one, when at last he came, bringing a young doctor. The nurse
was dressing the baby. My daughter was resting quietly and I sat in a
corner of the room, feeling a dazed sensation and wondering if I were going
to faint. In a few minutes I recovered myself and walked to my daughter's
bedside, where the young M.D. was making an examination to see if all was
right. When he turned around, Mr. C. introduced us (T think his name was
White). I was surprised to find that the gentleman had a very familiar look,
and I said, " Why, doctor, we have met before, but I do not recall where."
He smiled and asked, " Do you reside in N. Y. ? " " No, I live in St. Louis ;
have you ever been there 1" " Yes, about two months ago I passed through
St. Louis." "And I," I said, "have been in New York for over three
months, and yet I know I have met you before, but I do not recall where."
At this moment my daughter plucked at my dress and whispered, " Look at
the doctor's cravat." In a moment I knew he was the man whom I saw in
my dream, and then realised that all the occurrences of the past six hours
were a complete fulfilment of the dream, which only needed Dr. Ranney's
visit to finish it. The doctor's dress was exactly as I had seen it in the dream.
Dr. Ranney came in about two hours. He had been called to Brooklyn, and
the ice was running so heavily that the boat was delayed. He was very
much surprised to learn that I had acted as accoucheur, and still more so as
some complication in the case called for the services of an experienced per
son. When he came the next day he questioned me closely, and I felt that
he doubted my statement. I had had no previous experience, and at my
daughter's request, I told him of my dream and that what I considered one
of the strangest features of the matter was that, on my honour, the dream
had not once occurred to me from the beginning of my daughter's labour
until she called my attention to the doctor's cravat.
Dr. Ranney desired me to write an account of the whole matter, and I
promised to do so, but delayed it, and never did it. I have endeavoured to
have my statement of the matter corroborated, but find that Dr. Ranney is
dead. Miss Evans is also dead. My son-in-law, for reasons which he deems
sufficient, does not wish his, or my daughter's name used. Mr. and Mrs. B.
I know but slightly, and do not like to make the request of them, which they
might not like to refuse, and then they may have forgotten the matter.
I am much too earnest a seeker for a solution of the question at the
beginning of my statement to allow myself to exaggerate or mistake. I have
condensed as much as possible my statement. The full particulars would be
too lengthy. If my information was not from some foreseeing intelligence,
where did it come from ?
Sara Weiss,
March, 1891. 3,710, Olive Street, St. Louis, Mo.
Studio of A. M. Blanchard, 418 1-2, Olive-street, St. Louis, Mo.
April 1st, 1891.
Mr. Richard Hodgson.—Dear Sir,—I may add that Mrs. A. M.
Weiss, who recently sent you a report, is my intimate friend. I have read
her M.S.S detailing the very peculiar experience in N.Y. ten years ago, and
it coincides exactly with my recollection of the account she gave of it a
few days after the event. No one but Mrs. W. knows that I was informed
2 p
526 F. W. H. Myers.
of it, and, for obvious reasons, I cannot go on formal record, should my
testimony, which, of course, is only second-hand, be considered of any
value. I was probably the only person, except those mentioned in Mrs.
W.'s statement, who was informed of the experience at the time.
I am aware that my statement is merely corrobatory, and of no positive
value as emdetux ; but the whole affair was so far removed from the ordinary
run of psychic experiences, that it may be of some interest to you.
A. M. Blanchard.
Mr. A. M. Blanchard further writes :—
Mr. Richard Hodgson.—Dear Sir,—I mailed you yesterday a letter
requesting information, and also containing a statement in support of Mrs.
Weiss's report of her peculiar experience in N.Y. in 1881. This morning I
met Mrs. W., and she voluntarily suggested that I make the statement
which I had already forwarded, and gave permission that it go on record if
so desired. I was in St. Louis at the time of the occurrence, and she wrote
an account, somewhat less detailed than the one furnished you, but as far
as my memory serves—and it naturally made a strong impression—agreeing
with it in every particular. The letter is not now in existence. Mary, the
maid, was not told the dream, but was in the room immediately after the
birth of the child, and remembers the remark made to Mrs. Weiss by Mrs.
C, reminding her of the appearance of the young doctor in the dream.
A. M. Blanchard.
Mr. Blanchard again writes :—
Mr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I have read the report forwarded
to you by Mrs. Weiss, of the dream and its fulfilment, on the occasion of the
birth of her grandchild in New York, in January, 1881, and it coincides in
all its details with my recollection of the account written to me by her a few
days after the event.
1 regret that the letter is not now in existence, but it made so strong an
impression on my mind that I cannot be mistaken. ^ jj Bl^chard
I have read my mother's written statement of the dream which she had
previous to the birth of my little boy, and in so far as I remember, it is
quite correct. Mks C h c
St. Louis, [July] 31st, 1894.
Mr. Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I had hoped when last I wrote you that I
might very soon be able to go to Chicago, when I could talk with Mr. C, in
relation to his recollection of the dream. I was very ill for some weeks,
and at last went to Chicago, hoping that a change might benefit me, but the
result was quite to the contrary. I talked with Mr. C, but he has been so
immersed in business during the years which have elapsed since the time
when the dream occurred, that he declares that he has no recollection of it,
or of any matters outside of his business, and knowing him as I do, I do
not doubt the assertion. My daughter and I have so often recurred to the
birth of the little boy, and incidents connected with that event, that she
remembers the dream distinctly, and I send her attestation of the fact.
Sara Weiss.
2,916, Pine-st, St. Louis, Mo.
The Subliminal Self. 527
St. Louis, Mo.
I went from St. Louis to New York iu 1881, as nurse maid to Mrs. C.'s
little girl. I lived with Mrs. C. when the little boy was born. I was a
little over fourteen years old when the baby was born. I do not think I was
told of Mrs. Weiss's dream, but after the baby was born I was told to bring
the little girl into the room. A strange doctor was just leaving. Mrs. C.
said to Mr. C, " Did you notice the doctor's neck-tie ?" Mr. C. said " No."
Then Mrs. C. said, " Why, I know him by mamma's description as the
doctor she saw in her dream." I heard a good deal of talk about the dream,
. but I was so young I did not pay enough attention to what was said to
remember much about it.
Marie Luenstroth.
My next case also is concerned with a birth ; but it suggests certain
possibilities which are still more perplexing.
The writer of the following account- is a lady recommended to me
by Dr. Li^beault of Nancy as in all ways an excellent informant ;—a
lady who haa now for many years taken a leading part in an important
French philanthropic enterprise, and whose mind is not given to
exaggeration or morbid sentiment. I am obliged thus to describe my
correspondent because, for reasons which seem to me adequate, I
cannot give her name, or go fully into the points in her letters to me
which have led me to regard her as a scrupulously careful witness.
From among many psychical experiences, mainly conforming to our
usual types, which she has recorded in a pamphlet in my possession, I
select the incident which follows.
P. 178. [Translation from pamphlet printed 1894.]
In November, 1877, I was expecting my third child. On the night
before its birth I had a terrible dream.
I had the feeling that my room was filled by all kinds of mysterious and
sorrowful influences, and a small being, separating itself from these
confused surroundings at the other end of my room, said to me, ' ' I come
to you that you may love me."
This being, of the size of a child two or three years old, was human
only in its face, from which shone two large dark eyes ; I remarked also the
expression of the mouth, which indicated suffering ; as to the rest of the
body, it was so painful to look upon, so different from the rounded forms
and fresh rosiness of childhood, that I woke in anguish, my heart beating
violently.
In the morning I told my mother of this dream. She regarded it as a
nightmare caused by my condition at the time ; and we welcomed without
apprehension the arrival of my third little daughter, a fine child of dark
complexion, well formed, and showing every sign of strong health.
When a few weeks had passed, I observed that this child's physiognomy,
especially when it was on the point of crying, bore a strong likeness to the
child of my dream. It had also the same large dark eyes ; but very gentle
in expression, and filled, as it grew older, with a deep but indefinable
2 p 2
528 F. W. H. Myers.
sadness. I communicated my apprehensions to my sister. [A letter from
this lady, herself concerned with philanthropic and literary work, lies
before me, dated April 13th, 1894. She says, " I affirm the perfect
exactitude of this narrative. My sister told me her dream, I was witness
of her apprehensions during the brief existence of her third little daughter,
and she said to me textually the words mentioned in her narrative, at the
end of the child's life. "] We observed the child's development with the
anxious attention that every mother will understand.
She was very easy to rear, without faults of temper, and incredibly
precocious in all ways—in her senses, memory, intelligence, and affectionate
sensibility.
I brought her up thus to the age of two years and a half. Then she
was taken from me by a terrible malady, granular kidney, (la granulie),
following upon measles, and finally causing meningitis, after causing
extreme irritation for weeks. The poor child was seriously ill for three
months and a half. During the last week of her painful existence she was
reduced to a state of extreme emaciation, and showing her sadly to my
sister, I said to her with absolute truth, " Alas ! There is the child of my
dream, exactly as she appeared to me the night before she was born ! "
It will be observed here that the premonition represented neither
a child with normal resemblance to its parents, nor a child suffering
from any disease which heredity or maternal suggestion could have
caused, but a child in a condition into which it actually fell some two
years later, as the result of zymotic disease.
These last cases offer no indication of any message from without.
Rather they suggest the kind of flashing recognition which a man
might experience who had seen his own life beforehand, and now
retraversed it like a hypnotic subject carrying out a " deferred
suggestion." I will next give a few cases where a man's future life
seems to be shown to him as though from some external source of
knowledge.
In the following case of Dr. Liébeaolt's,—a case which it is hard to
regard as more than a series of strange coincidences,—it will be
observed that Dr. Li^beault is not himself responsible for more than
the fact that the young man believed that he was to die in a certain
year. This is just the kind of case where the death might have been
ascribed to terror ; but in fact the subject's terrors here are calmed,
and he then dies of a disease which terror could not have induced.
P. 190. From Dr. Lidbeault's note-book.
M. S. de Ch. came to consult me to-day at 4 p.m. (January 7th, 1886) for
a slight nervous ailment. M. de Ch. is much preoccupied by a lawsuit, and
by the incident which I proceed to recount.
On the 26th December, 1879, while walking in Paris, he saw " Mme-
Lenormand, Necromancer," written on a door. Urged by thoughtless
The Subliminal Self. 52'J
curiosity he entered the house, and was shown into a rather dark room.
Mme- Lenormand came to him, and placed him at a table. She went out and
returned, and then looking at the palm of one of his hands said, "You will
lose your father in a year from this very day. You will soon be a soldier ;
(he was 19 years old) but not for long. You will marry young, have two
children, and die at 26." M. de Ch. confided this astounding prophecy to
some of his friends, but did not take it seriously. However, as his father
died after a short illness on December 27th, 1880, precisely a year from the
interview, he became less incredulous. And when he became a soldier, for
i seven months only, married, had two children, and was approaching his
twenty-sixth birthday, ho became thoroughly alarmed and thought he had
only a few days to live. This was why he came to consult mo, hoping I might
enable him to avoid his fate. For, as the first four events had taken place,
he thought that the last would. On this and the following days I tried to
send M. de Ch. into profound sleep in order to dissipate the impression that
he would die on the 4th February, his birthday. Mme- Lenormand had not
named a date, but he was so agitated that I could not induce even the
slightest sleep.
However, as it was absolutely necessary to get rid of his conviction, lest
it should fulfil itself by self-suggestion, I changed my tactics and proposed
that he should consult one of my somnambulists, an old man of 70 or so,
nick-named "the prophet," because he had exactly foretold his own cure of
articular rheumatism of 4 years' standing, and the cure of his daughter, the
l cure in the latter case resulting from his suggestion. M. de Ch. accepted
my proposal eagerly. When put into rapport with the somnambulist his
first question was, " When shall I die ? " The sleeper, suspecting the state
of the case, replied after a pause, "You will die . . . you will die in 41
years." The effect was marvellous ; the young man recovered his spirits,
and when the 4th February passed he thought himself safe. [Some of those
who had heard of the prophecy concluded in consequence that there had been
nothing in it. ]
I had forgotten all this, when at the beginning of October I received
an invitation to the funeral of my unfortunate patient, who had died on
September 30th, 1886, in his 27th year, as Mrae- Lenormand had foretold.
To prevent the supposition that the whole affair was an illusion on my part,
I keep this letter of invitation, as well as the record made at the time of M.
de Ch.'s visit to me. I have since learnt that the unfortunate man had been
under treatment for biliary calcuti and died of peritonitis caused by an
internal rupture. Dr Li£beai;lt.
Here, perhaps, as fitly as elsewhere I may introduce four old cases
which should not be ignored ;—cases the worse for their age, of course,
inasmuch as we cannot question our informants further ; yet narratives
which have not passed from hand to hand, nor bear any trace of
frivolous or superstitious origin. They are grave and mainly first-hand
statements, and while they are themselves strengthened by our more
recent narratives they do also in their turn lend to those new instances
some real support.
530 F. W. H. Myers.
P. 181.
Translation of an extract from the M&inoires du Due de St. Simon.
(A. Sautelet et Cie, Librairies Editeurs, Paris, 1829). Vol. V., p. 120,
et seq. (A.D. 1706). [The Due de Saint Simon is believed to have
kept a journal with the object of thence compiling his Mhnoires and
here, as in many other places, the account suggests that notes were
taken at the time, although, of course, this cannot now be positively
asserted.]
Here is something which he [the Duke of Orleans] told me in a corner of
the salon at Marly, where we were having a tete-h-tete one day, when he had
just arrived from Paris, and was on the point of setting out for Italy ; some
thing so marvellous, con6rmed as it was by events which could not then have
been foreseen, that I cannot omit it. He was interested in all arts and
sciences, and with great powers of mind, had had all his life the weakness
(so common at the court of Henry II 's children), which Catherine de
M^dicis had introduced from Italy amongst other habits and customs. He
had sought, as far as he was able, to see the devil, without success, according
to what he has often told me, and to see marvellous things, and read the
future. Mademoiselle de Sery had at her house a little girl of eight or nine,
who had been born there and had never left it, and who possessed the
innocence and simplicity of her age and upbringing. Amongst otherdealers
in hidden mysteries, of whom the Duke of Orleans had seen so many in his
life, there was one to be met with at his mistress's house, who boasted that
he could cause anything one wanted to know to be seen in a glass of water.
Some one young and innocent was needed to look into it, and this little girl
was just suitable. They amused themselves by wishing to know what was
happening in far-away places, and the little girl looked and told what she
saw accordingly. The fellow said something in a low voice over the glass of
water and immediately it was looked into successfully.
The frauds to which the Duke of Orleans had so often been exposed
induced him to put a test which might be convincing. He told one of his
men in a whisper to go immediately to Madame de Nancr^'a, a little distance
off, to ascertain exactly who was there, what was doing, the position and
furnishings of the room, and everything that was going on there, and to
come back and tell him in a whisper, without losing a moment or speaking to
any one. The order was obeyed in a trice without any one having noticed
what it was, and the little girl was in the room all the while. When the
Duke of Orleans had been instructed by his messenger, he told the little girl
to see in the glass who was at Madame de Nancr^'s, and what was going on
there. Immediately she told them word for word all that the Duke of
Orleans' messenger had seen. The description of the faces, figures, and
clothes of the people who were there, their position in the room, the people
who were playing at two different tables, those who were looking on, or talk
ing, seated or standing, the placing of the furniture, in fact everything.
Immediately the Duke of Orleans sent Nancr4 there, who reported that
everything was as the little girl had said, and as the valet who had first been
there had told the Duke in a whisper.
He did not speak to me much on these subjects, because I took the liberty
of shaming him about them. I now took the liberty of rating him soundly
The Subliminal Self. 531
about his account of this incident and of telling him what I thought might
deter him from giving credence to these delusions and from amusing himself
with them, at a time moreover, when his mind should have been occupied
with so many great subjects. " That is not all," he said to me, " and I have
only told you that to prepare you for the remainder," and he immediately
went on to relate how, encouraged by the accuracy of what the little girl had
seen in Madame de Nancr^'s apartment, he had wished to see something
more important, and what would happen on the king's death ; but without
seeking the Hate, which could not be seen in the glass. He put the question
f then to the little girl, who had never heard Versailles spoken of or seen any
one belonging to the court, except himself. She looked and explained to
them at length what she saw. She described accurately the king's room at
Versailles and the furnishings which were actually found there at his death.
She depicted him precisely in his bed, and standing near the bed or in the
room, a little child with the order held by Madame de Vontadour, at the
sight of whom she exclaimed, because she had seen her at Mademoiselle de
Sery's house. She made them recognise Madame de Maintenon, the strik
ing figure of Fagon, the Duchess of Orleans, the Princess de Conti ; she
exclaimed at the Duke of Orleans ; in short she revealed to them whomsoever
she saw there, princes, lords, servants, or valets. When she had finished,
the Duke of Orleans, surprised that she had not mentioned Monseigneur
[the Dauphin], the Duke and Duchess of Burgundy, nor the Duke of Berry,
asked her if she did not see such-and-such figures. She persisted in answer-
ing " No," and repeated those she did see. The Duke of Orleans could not
understand this, and expressed great astonishment at it to me, and sought in
vain the reason for it. The event explained it. It was then 1706. All four
were at that time in full life and health, and all four died before the king. It
was the same with the Prince, the Duke, and the Prince de Conti, whom she
did not see, whilst she saw the children of the two latter, M. du Maine, his
children, and the Count of Toulouse. But until the event it remained a
mystery. His curiosity satisfied on this point, the Duke of Orleans wished
to know what would become of himself. That however was not to be seen in
the glass. The fellow who was there offered to show it to him as if painted
on the wall of the room, if he was not afraid of seeing himself there ; and
after a quarter of an hour of rodomantade before them all, the figure of the
Duke of Orleans, clothed as he then was, and life-size, appeared suddenly on
the wall like a painting, with a closed crown on its head. It was not that of
France, Spain, or England, neither was it an imperial crown. The Duke of
Orleans who gazed fixedly at it could not guess what it was ; he had never
seen such a one. It had only four circles, and nothing on the top. This
crown covered his head.
From the previous mystery and from this latter one, I took the opportu
nity of showing him again the folly of this kind of thing, fitting delusions of
the devil, permitted by God for the punishment of a curiosity, which He
forbids, resulting in nothingness and darkness, instead of the light and
instruction sought.
He was at that time certainly very far from being regent of the
kingdom, or from thinking of it. That was perhaps what this curious
crown announced to him. All this happened in Paris at his mistress's
532 F. W. H. Myers.
house, in the presence of their most intimate circle, the day before he
told me of it ; and I thought it so extraordinary, that I have given it
a place here, not to express my approval of it, but to make it known.
"St Simon's account," a correspondent writes to me, "is the more
interesting because he is not by any means a superstitious man. See
his account of Boulainvillier's predictions of deaths,— some of which
were right (apparently) but some wrong. St. Simon speaks of ' la
faussete, la vanité, et le neant de cette prétendue science qui seduifc
tant de gens d'esprit' (Edition Cheruel et Regnier, Vol. XI, ch. 7, p.
153;—1715 A. D.) "
The next case was also a matter of serious and immediate record.
P. 461. From the Rev. T. G. Crippen, Kirton, near Boston.
Since writing the foregoing paragraph (i.e., P. 460) I have found a
memorandum in my father's handwriting, dated January, 1869, in which he
had set down particulars of several dreams or presentiments. I will give
ono of them verbatim ; the incidents must have occurred in the early part
of 1847.
" .... I had a dream, and set it down, telling the landlady
and her daughter the page in my memorandum-book. They wanted to see
it, but I said 1 No, but they might mark the page,' which they did. Next
morning I was sitting at the same table. . . . The postman gave his
double knock, and I said 'Here comes my dream.' Sure enough it was ; for
there was a letter from the Board with my promotion, which I did not look for
for another year at least. Now the dream was that I saw a letter, read it,
went to London ; close by a church that you could go round two sides of,
I saw a gateway ; I entered, saw a black-looking building with folding doors
and a side door. (Rough sketch in the margin, unintelligible.) I entered
and turned up a flight of steps on my right hand, met a very little man and
he said 'Welcome, stranger; you are Mr. Crippen.' . . . That was my
dream at Thorpe-le-Soken. The church was St. Giles in London ; I never
asked any one, but went straight round [sic.], saw the entrance and all in
my dream. The supervisor was a very little man. . . ."
By way of explanation, I may add that the place described as having been
seen beforehand was a soapery near St. Giles, of which my father had
charge as " Assistant " for a few months in 1847. I was too young to be
able to give any corroboration to this narrative from my own knowledge ;
but I know that some incidents connected with his removal from Thorpe-le-
Soken to London at that time made a deep impression on my father's
mind ; he regarded it as a special occasion for gratitude to God, and several
times spoke of it as such. Thos. Geo. Crippen.
It will be observed that Mr. Crippen quotes from a memorandum-
book of his father's, which is itself a digest of notes taken at the
time. As regards the premonitory vision of Wansford, which follows,
it is of course possible that the Excise authorities had already
The Subliminal Self. 533
contemplated moving Mr. Crippen to Wansford, and had thought
of that scene in connection with him, so that it might have been
telepathically transferred.
P. 460.
From the Rev. Thomas George Crippen (Independent Minister), Kirton,
near Boston.
July 8th, 1884.
In the spring or early summer of 1852, my father was Excise officer at
Mildenhall, Suffolk, and was expecting shortly to be removed to another
station. One morning at breakfast he said, " 1 have had a curious dream ;
I saw a malt-house standing beside some water ; there were trees, and a
crane ; I have never been in such a place, but if I were an artist I could
■ketch the scene exactly." A few months later the expected order for
removal came to hand, and my father, accompanied by my mother and
myself, went to the place indicated to make needful arrangements. The
place was Dalham, a few miles distant ; and I distinctly remember that as
we rode by a malt-house beside a pool, at Dalham, my mother said, " la
that like your dream?" The reply was "No, there were boats on that
water." I may remark that I was then a few weeks under 11 years old.
We did not remove to Dalham, the order being countermanded ; but in the
early spring of 1854—nearly two years after the dream -my father was
ordered to Wansford, in the East Riding of Yorkshire. We had certainly
P never been within 40 miles of the place. We arrived at Driffield on a
Saturday night, and put up at the "Bell"; and on the following morning
my father and I took a walk around. In the course of our walk we passed
a malt-house and mill, standing beside a large sheet of water, at Nafferton.
I said, "Is that like your dream ? " The reply was " Something like, and yet
not like it." We walked on to Wansford—about two miles further—when
suddenly my father said " My dream, Tom, there it is ! There is the malt-
house, and the trees, and the crane, and the water exactly as I saw it." The
place was Bainton's mill—since known as Nornabell's—about two miles
from Driffield. As I have a distinct remembrance of the dream being the
subject of conversation before the visit to Dalham, of the conversation at
Dalham, and of my father's words both at Nafferton and Wansford, I think
this may be fairly put on record as an instance of presentiment inexplicable
by any known natural law.
The memorandum contains further details, but I prefer to leave the
narrative as it stands, because so far it is within the sphere of my own
distinct remembrance.
Thos. Geo. Crippen.
The next case is again noteworthy, as coming from a quarter where
the slightest conscious embellishment of truth would have been reckoned
as a sin. " Fletcher of Madeley " was one of the chiefest of English
saints ; and the premonition which follows is bound up with earthly lives
than which few could have approached closer to the life unseen, or have
lain more manifestly under the oversight and intendancy of heaven.
F. W. H. Myers.
P. 58.
From the life of Mrs. Mary Fletcher, of Madeley. By the Rev. H.
Moore, D.D. Vol. I., pp. 241-243.
On Mr. Fletcher's death at his parish of Madeley, his widow expected to
have to give up their house. In October, 1785, she makes the following
entry in her journal : " I received a message from Mr. Kenerson, letting me
know I should never be turned out of the house. It brought before my
mind a dream I had some years before I was married. I dreamed a man
came to offer me some tithes. I replied, ' Friend, I have nothing to do
with tithes, I have no concern in any living.' But soon after I said to one
of my family, Hannah, 'I am going away, I have a call from the Lord,—I
must go.' But again I thought I knew not where, not even into what
country. However, the way of duty is the way of safety. I will set out, and
God will lead me. Immediately I left Cross Hall,1 and after walking a few
paces I thought I was carried, in a moment, I knew not how, and set down
in a churchyard, and some one said to me, 'You are to enter into this
church.' I went in, and walking up the aisle, I heard a kind of groan, and
said, ' That is the sound of death. ' When I came out of the church I
entered into a house which was just by it. As I was on the steps it was said
inwardly to me, 'This is the habitation which God hath chosen for you.'
But I answered, ' Oh, no ! I cannot live here. It is the order of God for
me to live in Yorkshire.' I went into some rooms, and found in one I
passed through, a man and woman. In the next was a young woman, with,
a child on her lap. She appeared dying of a consumption, and in great con
flicts. We soon entered into conversation .... After a time, she told
me I must come here, and here abide. I replied, ' Oh, no ! I live at Cross
Hall, in Yorkshire, and have a great family and many calls there.' But she
said, ' It is the will of God to bring you here—there is work for you to do.'
She added, 'Do not be frightened, God will make you a comfortable
habitation.' I said, 'Have you the Gospel here?' She replied, 'Yes.'
'And who,' said I, 'is the minister that brought it among you?' She
replied, 'He is not here now.' 'Then who,' said I, 'is your present
minister ? ' She showed me a name of three syllables—but I . . . .
could only remember the two last—' nerson.' I felt myself in great anguish
and sorrow of mind, (though I could not assign any cause), and said, ' I
must go away, I cannot stay here. I do not know that man and woman. I
cannot live with them.' She replied, 'That man and woman will go away
when you come. But there is work for you to do, you must abide here.'
. . . . I went downstairs .... seeing a coach ready to be hired,
I beckoned to it—the man opened the door ; as I was stepping in he said,
' Where will you be carried ? ' I strove to say Cross Hall, Yorkshire, but I
could not. Then I strove to name various habitations I had formerly lived in,
but I could remember the name of none At last I stepped
back, and pointing to the house I came out of, I said, ' That is my home.
God hath taken the remembrance of every other out of my heart.'
I knew nothing of the situation of anything in Madeley when I liad
this dream—but when, some years afterwards, I told my dear Mr. Fletcher,
1 Cross Hall, Yorkshire, was at this time her home.
The Subliminal Self. 535
he said, ' There was a man and woman who lived with me at that time, and
a young woman named A. C, who was very useful in the work, to which she
proved a nursing mother. She died of a consumption, in which she had
many conflicts.' I said, ' Was there a minister here whose name ended in
'uerson'1' He replied, 'No.' But now I understand it all. Had I before
remembered the whole name, I should at once have known this dream would
be fulfilled at my dear husband's death, as Mr. Kenerson was the patron and
his son now became our vicar."
And now a case which we may interpret in various ways, but
which yet points to spiritual presences which to this man's sober
apprehension seemed real and near. I quote only so much of the
narrative, not now evidential, as may serve to show its parallelism with
more modern experience.
P. 11.
From a letter which appeared in the Gentleman's Magazine (Vol. XXXV.
1765, pp. 599, 600) headed: " The Existence of Invisible Foreicarners of
Events Asserted." This letter bears the signature of J. Cook, M.D., and is
dated Leigh, September 18th, 1765.
The writer, after vouching " by the living of God "for the truth of his
narrative, says :—
I "Ever since I was three and twenty years of age, I have had an invisible
being or beings attend me at times both at home and abroad, that have by
some gentle token or other, given me warning and notice that I should
shortly certainly lose a particular friend, or a patient. They began and con
tinued from our marriage till the decease of my first wife, in May, 1728, and
of her infant daughter, who lived with me but seven months, and but six
weeks after her mother, when they were very frequent and troublesome
about my house, as was well-known, and noticed by many of our friends and
neighbours. After that they came seldom, but so gentle, civil, and familiar,
that I chose rather to have them about my house than not, and would not,
if I was to sell it, part with the same without some extraordinary considera
tion upon that very account ; and I really hope they will never leave me
as long as I live ; though my spouse wishes otherwise, to whom they are
not so agreeable. . . .
"Sometimes we have had their hints frequent and close together ; at
other times but seldom, and at a great distance of time. But this I have
observed, that rarely any patient, or friend that I respected, or that valued
me, departs hence, but I have some kind of sensible notice, or warning of it ;
but yet so discreet and mild, as never to flutter, or frighten me. This notice,
which is either by seeing, feeling, or hearing, is not fixed to any certain
distance of time previous to their deaths, but I have had it a week, a month,
and more, before their decease, and once only three days, when I actually
heard the spiritual agent form an articulate voice, and utter these words, as
I was abed, with a most pathetic emphasis, ' I am gone ; ' which was
fulfilled the Monday morning following, by the sudden death of my cousin's
daughter, who was upon a visit at my house, and was well two days before."
536 F. W. H. Myers.
Towards the end of his letter he adds that the voice came " just as I had
put out my candle, and was laid down in my bed," etc. . . .
" My spouse was fast asleep by me, so missed being witness of that
notice ; though she often is, and some of my sons too, and many
others." . . .
" At first, in 1728, I kept a book of account, where I entered every
notice or warning, with the particular circumstances attending, and the
event that succeeded such notices, but they were so frequent and numerous
that I grew quite weary in writing them down, so left off that method,
resolving to take them for the future just as they came. The very last hint
I had was on Saturday night, the 6th of July 1765, in my chamber, about
eleven o'clock, as I was walking to my bed, being from home attending a
patient I was that morning sent for to, and which I lost on the 20th day of
the same month. For the first five days I saw no danger ; yet I doubted the
event ; but when I have more than one patient dangerously ill at a time,
the issue only determines the case, and though I lay no stress upon such
notices, so as to affect my practice, yet I fear the worst, and though the use
of means is then to no purpose, yet it renders me the more diligent for
conscience' sake."
It is interesting to set beside these old cases some modern
examples, where like intimations are still given through the same
channels as before.
The case next to be given has the rare peculiarity of involving- )
a definite date,—the day of the month, a few months ahead,—on
which the premonition was to fulfil itself.1 The matter involved was
a private one, and I am able to give the case only in outline.
(P. 223.) In December, 1889, I received from Miss X. a' sealed
envelope containing a date. Miss X. stated that a premonition in
auditory form—a voice often heard before at crises, and which
she had always trusted—had deferred to the date therein-mentioned
the decision of a matter as to which she had been in great
anxiety, and which she had been daily expecting to be obliged
to decide. It did not then appear to her likely that the decision
should be so long deferred ; nor was it essential that an actual
meeting should take place ; but she resolved to do nothing
either to help or hinder the fulfilment of the prediction. The date in
question found her, in fact, at a distance from London (where the
question would have to be settled), and likely to remain in the
country. An unexpected summons from an invalid relative brought
her back to London,—the cause of the summons being the sudden
illness of a maid. Miss X. arrived in London, and an accidental
visitor at the relative's house invited her impromptu to an enter
tainment at which she met the friend upon whom the matter
' See Mr. Edisbury's case, Vol. VII., p. 318.
The Subliminal Self. 537
depended—although that friend was previously a stranger to her
hosts of the evening.
Miss X. then wrote to tell me of this fact, and Mrs. Sidgwick and I,
opening the sealed letter together, found that the date given therein
corresponded to that on which the predicted meeting and decision had
now actually taken place.
In the next case a date is also obscurely given.
.
P. 643. Dream. Cf. Phantasms of the Living, Case (79).
From the Rev. E. D. Banister, Whitechapel Vicarage, Preston,
Lancashire.
[November 12th, 1885.]
My father, whilst a schoolboy (probably from 1808-1815), had a dream
relating to his future, which I and my sister have often heard him relate.
In the dream he saw a tablet in the parish church of his native place, on
which was inscribed his name in full, the date of his birth, and the day and
month, but not the year, of his death. But there seemed to him to be
something uncertain about the month in the date of his death. The date
as inscribed on the tablet was Jun. 9. But as June is seldom, if ever,
abbreviated as Jun., he was somewhat inclined to think that it might be
Jan. 9.
' Many years elapsed after the dream, and nothing occurred to recall the
circumstance until on June 9th, 1835, my eldest brother died at the age of
two years and ten months. My father at the time was very deeply affected
by the loss of the child. The date of the child's death called to his mind
the date on the tablet, and though in his dream he distinctly saw his own
name, he ever afterwards favoured the idea that the date he had seen was
Jun. 9.
On January 9th, 1883, my father died.
Mr. Banister's sister confirms as follows :—
I have seen my brother's letter respecting the dream of which I have
heard my father speak, and can only say that the facts are as my brother
has stated. AGnea Banister.
To what extent departed human spirits may be concerned in
messages like these is a problem which only a much wider collection of
evidence can enable us to solve. I have already alluded to certain cases
which seem to show us a departed friend foretelling some death which
may or may not have been already recognised as imminent by observers
on earth. It is suggested thus that the disembodied spirit can better
discern the invalid's condition, and remains at hand to receive him
when the transition comes.
In several families there is a tradition that some special sign
precedes or accompanies the transition of the head of the house, or of
538 F. W. H. Myers.
certain of its members. In the case of one of these families, I have
received evidence to the persistence of a given type of " warning "
during a period of three centuries.
P. 232.
Extract from Dr. Robert Plot's "Natural History of Oxfordshire." Edited
1677. (Original Book at Conyingham, Knaresborough. Pages 204 and 205).
I. " I must add also a Relation, as strange as it is true, of the Family of
one Captain Wood, late of Bampton, Oxfordshire, now of Brise Norton, Captain
in the late Wars for the King. Some whereof before their death have had
warning given them by a certain knocking, either at the door without or on
a table or shelves within ; the number of stroaks and distance between them,
and the place where, for the most part respecting the circumstances of the
persons to dye, or their deaths themselves, as will easily be collected
from the following relation. The first knocking that was heard, or at
least observed, was about a year after the Restoration of the King, in the
afternoon, or a little before night, at or upon the door it being then given,
as it was apprehended by Mrs. Elenor Wood, mother to Captain Basil Wood,
who only heard it, none being about the house but herself ; at which she
was very much disturbed, thinking it boded some ill to her or hers, and
within fourteen nights after, she had news of the death of her son-in-law,
Mr. George Smith, who dyed in London.
II. "About three years after that, there were three great knocks given
very audibly to all that were then in the house, viz., to the aforesaid
Mrs. Elenor Wood, Mr. Basil Wood, and his wife, Mrs. Hester, and some
servants ; which knocks were so remarkable that one of the maids came
from the well, which was about twenty yards from the place, to see what
was the matter ; and Mrs. Elenor Wood, and another maid that was within
the house, saw three great pans of lard shake and totter so upon a shelf in
the milk house that they were like to fall down. Upon this violent
knocking, Mr. Basil Wood and his wife, being then in the hall, came pre
sently into the milk house to their mother, where finding her somewhat
disturbed, and enquiring the reason, she replied, ' God Almighty only knew
the matter ;' she could tell nothing, but she heard the knocking ; which being
within doors, Mr. Basil Wood concluded was for some of the family at home,
that upon the door being for a friend abroad ; which accordingly fell out,
three of the family, according to the number of the knocks, dying within
little more than half a year after, viz., Mrs. Hester Wood, wife to Mr. Basil
Wood, a child of Mr. Wood's sister, and Mrs. Elenor Wood, his mother.
III. "About August, 1674, Mr. Basil Wood, junior, son of the Mr. Basil
Wood aforesaid, living at Exeter, in Devonshire, heard the same kind of
knocking, at which being disturbed, he wrote word of it to his father here at
Bampton, in Oxfordshire ; viz., 'That one Sunday he and his wife and her
sister and his brother did distinctly hear upon a Table in their chamber, as
they stood by it, two several knocks struck as it were with a cudgel, one of
them before and the other after morning prayer, a little before dinner ; '
which letter was shown to Mr. Wood, senior, (as the other knockings before
the deaths of any that dyed were beforehand told) to several neighbouring
The Subliminal Self. 539
gentlemen ; after which within about fourteen days,1 Mrs. Hester Wood, a
second wife of Mr. Basil Wood, senior, and about a quarter of a year after,
her father, Mr. Richard Lisset, dyed both at Bampton ; since which time
they have heard nothing more as yet."
IV. The following is a copy made by Miss Ethel Woodd of an entry made
by her father, Mr. Charles H. L. Woodd, in the margin of his copy of Plot's
"Natural History of Oxfordshire" :—
"The said warning was heard at the death of Mr. George Woodd, of
Richmond, Surrey. A knocking was heard by Mrs. Woodd the night he died.
He said, 'Oh, it is the Woodds' warning, I shall die before morning.' He
m 80- "C. H. L. Wood.
" A. D. March, 1784."
[Mr. George Basil Woodd, father of Mr. Basil George Woodd, died
March 11th, 1784.]
V. Basil George Woodd died at Hillfield, Hampstead, August 28th,
1872, aged 91 years.
Hannah Wardman, an old servant, living in Mr. Basil George Woodd's
house, The Old Parsonage, Harrogate, Yorkshire, heard three distinct
knocks outside on the front door the night he died at Hampstead. She got
up and went down in the middle of the night, opened the door and looked
round—not a creature to be seen over all the stray [i.e., the wide grass
common at Harrogate on which the old parsonage looked out.] The knocks
1 occurred again and she came down a second time in vain (remembered by
Eleanor J. Mitton and Fanny L. Woodd). She also heard dogs coming into
the yard and howling all night.
At Hillfield, Mr. Gleave, the butler, heard knocks at the pantry window
(this is remembered by E. H. W. only). It is thought that an old servant,
who lived at Hillfield at the time, may be able to corroborate it, and she has
been communicated with.
[" E. H. W." is Mrs. Basil Kilvington Woodd, who has kindly helped in
the collection of these facts.]
Lower Lodge, Waterperry, Wheatley, Oxon. ,
June 22nd, 1895.
Hond. Madam,—In reply to your request about the knockings heard by
, Gleave on the eve of Mr. Woodd's death, at Hillfield, August 28th, 1872,
I quite well remember Gleave coming out of the pantry and saying
" Some one has been knocking at the pantry window." Nothing could be
seen ; we supposed it must have been a bird. Gleave said, " It is a strange
thing for a bird to come there." The dog howled pitiously. Chase, one
of the men in the garden, remarked, " The old master will soon be gone and
the dog knows it."
I remember Mr. C. H. L. W. once speaking of the knocks being heard in
the Woodd family at the death of the oldest member.
l Mr. Basil Wood was married three times, first to Esther Meade, secondly to
Hester Lisset.
540 F. W. H. Myers.
I heard Hannah Wardman herself speak of the three knocks at the Old
Parsonage ; the neighbours in the morning remarking to her how late she
had visitors. As they were speaking, a messenger brought the sad tidings
of Mr. Woodd's death. It was the exact time of the knocking at the Parsonage
door. I did not hear any knocking ; I had been with the ladies and Mr.
Woodd in their great trouble in a strange house. It quite prepared me for
the sad tidings Jane Simpson had to tell me. This is all I can tell you, —
Yours respectfully, Sarah Tylor.
[Hannah Wardman died a few years ago.]
Mr. C. H. L. Woodd made the following note on the margin of his copy
of Plot :—
"August 28th, 1872, my father, Basil George Woodd, of Hillfield,
Hampstead, died at 11.12 p.m., at Hillfield. An old servant who took care
of his house at Harrogate was aroused at 11 or 12 by a violent knocking at
the front door. She looked out, could see nobody ; this occurred thrice. Her
neighbours asked her next day, ' What was the knocking t ' She heard next
day of the death of Mr. B. G. Woodd at that hour. She had never heard of
the legendary superstition. .iC. Woodd.
" Roslyn, Hampstead.
September 6th, 1872."
VI. Charles H. L. Woodd died December 15th, 1893, between 8 and 9 a. m.
August 21tt, 1895.
On Thursday evening, December 14th, 1893, after church I was
sitting before my fire—I knew my father was ill, and had a presentiment
that he was dangerously ill, though if I had known this I should have
remained at Hampstead, where I had been that day. As I sat, I distinctly
heard three knocks, perhaps more, like the sound of some one emptying a
tobacco pipe upon the bars of my fire-grate.
Thinking it may be a warning, I did not go to bed for an hour, thinking I
might be sent for. At 1 a.m. the butler, Arthur Reading, came, and I was
awakened from sleep by ringing of the front door bell and knocking. He
told me the doctor had sent for me, as my father was very ill; and he would be
back in twenty minutes whilst I dressed, to take me to Hampstead. He went
to Westminster for medical appliances. In half an hour he had not returned,
and I said to my housekeeper, Elizabeth Park, "I must go. I feel sure my
father is dying, because I heard the Woodd knocks as I sat in my chair before
going to bed."
A hansom cab passed and I ordered the man to drive as fast as he could
to Roslyn (Hampstead). On my arrival my first question was, " Is he
still alive ? " for I believed he must have passed away at the time of the
knocking. He died at 8.45 next morning."
(Signed) Trevor Basil Woodd.
(Assistant Curate, S. Peter's, Eaton-square, London).
Mrs. Park verifies this statement.
Mrs. Dumbell writes as follows :—
I, Winifred Dumbell (n4e Woodd), certify that my brother related to me
this circumstance at breakfast next morning.
The Subliminal Self. 541
There was no reason for my leaving Rosyln on Thursday afternoon, and I
should not have done so had I thought my father was in extremis.
St. Crinian, 7, Walpole-gardens, Strawberry Hill,
December 13th, 1895.
I am requested by Mrs. Basil Kilvington Woodd to write down the
following facts relating to the death warning in our family.
On December 14th, 1893 (Thursday morning) hearing my father, Mr.
Charles Woodd, was not well, I left Epsom, where I was staying, for
Hampstead, and found my father in bed and very weak, but I was in no way
anxious about him, as I did not suppose him to be seriously ill. At 11 o'clock
at night, being tired and finding I could not assist my mother or the nurso, I
lay down in an adjoining room leaving the door wide open and I fell asleep. In
a short time I was suddenly awakened by a loud rapping as if at the door. I
jumped up and ran into the passage thinking my mother had called me. I
listened at the door of my father's room, but no one was moving. I lay down
again and instantly fell asleep, when exactly the same thing occurred. I did
not actually sleep again, and cannot say whether any sound made me get up
the third time, but I went in search of the doctor and gathered that he was
anxious about my father, who was getting much weaker. We were all aroused,
and about 8 o'clock a.m. my father died.
Winifred Dujibell, nee Woodd.
I did not connect this rapping with the Woodd warning, as all was so rapid
and unexpected, but on mentioning it at breakfast the next morning to my
brother, the Rev. Trevor Basil Woodd, he told mo he also heard a similar
warning in his rooms in Vauxhall Bridge-road about the same time.
VII. Basil Thomas Woodd died June 4th, 1895, 10.30 p.m. His two
daughters send me the following statement :—
On June 3rd, at 10.30 p.m., Fanny, his daughter, staying with Mrs.
Stoney, 83, Wharton-road, West Kensington, heard knocks, apparently
from next door, as of nails being hammered in and pictures hung, which
seemed so unlikely at that hour of night that the next morning she men
tioned it to Mrs. Stoney, whose bedroom was just below hers, asking if she
had heard it or could account for it. At the same hour Kate, his youngest
daughter, who was with him at his brother Robert's house, Woodlands,
Hampstead, having retired for the night, heard bangs or thumps against the
windows below, which made her suspect burglars. The next day, the 4th,
Fanny left Mrs. Stoney to go to Woodlands, and Kate was to leave on the
5th. Mr. Woodd was in his usual health, and was with the family at dinner,
chatting and telling Yorkshire stories, but had no appetite and ate nothing,
and at 10 was seized with the apopletic attack from which he never rallied,
and breathed his last at 10.30 p.m. Fanny L Woodd
Kate I. Woodd.
83, Wharton-road, West Kensington, July 1st.
Miss Fanny Woodd was staying in my house, and I distinctly remember
her on the morning of the 4th June asking me if I had been disturbed by
the great knocking on the wall of the adjoining house the previous night.
She supposed the people must have been putting up pictures, and we agreed
2 Q
542 F. W. H. Myers.
that it was inconsiderate of them to do it at that hour, 10.30. Something-
interrupted us, or I should have remarked on the strangeness of my not having
heard, as my room is just under Miss Woodd's, and the noise heard by one
could not have failed to disturb the other. A servant who sleeps on the
same floor also did not hear the knocking, but was bringing in breakfast
when Miss Woodd spoke of it to me, and remembers her doing so and signs
this ***l, M. J. Stootsy.
M. RlSdAle.
81, Wharton-road, West Kensington, July 1st.
There has been no putting up of pictures or knocking of any kind in this
house for quite two years. We are also early risers, and are always in bed
and asleep by 10 p.m. (Signed) Harriet Taylor.
Roslyn, Hampstead, N.W., August 5th, 1895.
Dear Sir, —I send you the following account, which I should like you to
see, in reference to the " Woodd knockings. "
A few days before hearing of the death of my uncle, Mr. Basil Thomas
Woodd, which took place at Woodlands, Hampstead, I distinctly heard a
sound as of some one knocking two or three times at the front door ; it was
about 10.30 p.m., and I was in bed, but thinking it might be a beggar I got
up and looked out of the window ; no one was there, and all was quiet after,
and I thought nothing more of the circumstance until I heard of my uncle's
death a few days after. I may add I am not superstitious, nor was I
expecting that my uncle was in danger. I and my sister were staying at the
time at Oughtershaw, Skipton-in-Craven. —Believe me, yours truly,
Gertrude J. Woodd.
Roslyn, Hampstead, N.W., August 5th, 1895.
Dear Sir,—My cousin, Miss Woodd, of Conyingham Hall, Knaresborough,
asked me to send you my own experiences of what I believe to be the "Woodd
knockings." I am not superstitious in these ways, but one night about 10
p.m. I heard in my bedroom a sound as of some one hammering nails into a
wall. My sister slept next door and remembers that the next morning I
asked her if she had been putting up something on her wall, after retiring for
the night. She said she had not, and I thought little more about it. There
was no one else about in that part of the house. This took place, as far as I
can remember, several days before I heard of the death of my uncle, Mr.
Basil Woodd, which took place at the residence of my uncle, Mr. Robert
Woodd, of Hampstead, on Tuesday, June 4th. We did not hear of the event
until the following Thursday, June 6th. —Yours truly,
Ethel G. Woodd.
Can it be possible that when communication of this sort has been
found feasible by some group on the other side there is a continuity of
effort to sustain it ? or that each decedent in succession finds in the
previous history a suggestion to attempt a similar message himself ? or
that there is in the family a hereditary aptitude for the same type of
percipience ?
The Subliminal Self. 543
In various ways, indeed, our evidence suggests that approaching
death may bring about a rapprochement between incarnate and dis-
carnate souls of which such evidential incidents as we can get hold of
give but a partial glimpse. For instance, if the dying can appear to
the living, may they not appear also to the dead 1 May there not, that
is to say, be some precursory manifestation of the departing spirit to
friends in the unseen world, as well as a farewell manifestation to
friends in this ] The following case, although carrying no proof of
, being more than subjective, illustrates what is here suggested.
P. 635. 74, Durham-road, Manor Park, Little Ilford, Essex.
April 11th. 1888.
My brother's wife died on March 4th, 1885. From that time he was in
failing health. Early in February, 1887, he grew rapidly worse, and was
ordered to Bournemouth. About midnight one Saturday night (I think it was
the 23rd of February) [February 23rd, 1887, was a Wednesday; and, therefore,
Mrs. Jameson says in a later letter, her vision must have occurred on the
26th], while he was at Bournemouth, I was lying awake in bed, the gas
being full on, when I fancied that I saw a grave with a small white stone
lying, and one in an upright position. These stones suddenly changed to a
leaden hue, and upon the flat stone I saw a basket of exquisite flowers, all
white, and such as I have not beheld before or since. On the top of all the
flowers was a very large tiger lily. Immediately following this I felt a
" presence near me, but could see nothing, and it flashed into my mind that
my brother had died at Bournemouth. Shortly after I saw him in my
bedroom with a lady, whose arm was linked in his. Her face I did not
see, as they were a little in advance of me. I saw his, and recognised his
form. He was on the side nearest to me. The lady was draped as a
well-dressed bride, and veiled. Her dress was white and glistening.
He was in ordinary clothing, and they were both very happy. I also
heard distinctly the low murmur of voices, and heard, too, her glad
laugh. (This increased my belief that he had died, and that this lady was his
wife.) They were in mid-air, and were quite unconscious of my presence,
and seemed to glide rather than walk. After advancing a little they stood still,
my brother seeming reluctant to go on. After lingering a moment the lady
vanished, leaving my brother as one deep in thought, but still hesitating ;
she reappeared for an instant, and, as it seemed, enticed him to follow her.
But he still seemed unwilling to go with her, and she vanished finally, and
after a few more moments lingering, my brother followed in the same direc
tion that the lady had vanished. He returned to London about a fortnight
after this vision, and died on the 23rd of March, 1887, very suddenly, and the
memory of this wonderful experience will, I feel, be always sacred to me. The
surprising part to me is, that throughout the whole of this I was possessed
with a feeling of calmness and utter absence of fear. Miriam Jameson
Mr. Jameson writes :- April ^ 18gg.
My own share in the proceedings narrated was as follows. I was, on the
night referred to, sitting at work in my study—not far from our bedroom—
2 q 2
F. W. H. Myers.
when my wife called me, and said that she felt sure her brother was in the
bedroom. I said, " You are nervous. I will come to bed." I had scarcely
done so when she sat up, and began to describe to me what is stated in her
narrative as to seeing her brother, &c. I saw nothing. My wife was com
posed, but her face was very animated and her eyes glistened. She looked
and spoke just as a good actress would, in describing scene and action not
visible to her audience.
Our little son, then about 18 months old, had been taken into our bed —
being wakeful. He was wideawake, and was prattling and trying to caress
his mother, while she told me what she was seeing. His interruptions
seemed to hinder my wife from hearing what her brother said, for she
hushed the little one repeatedly.
The orphan child, about two years old, of my brother-in-law, who had
been with us from the time of her mother's death, was sleeping in an
adjoining room.
I may add that. although I am acquainted with several well-known
Spiritualists, I have never (nor has' my wife) taken much interest in
Spiritualistic phenomena. I mention this to show that prepossession
would not account for my wife's remarkable experience.
My own mind is still in suspense on the point whether that experience
was not purely subjective, although I cannot but admit that I have been
deeply impressed by the fact of the intense objective reality of that
experience to my wife. William Jameson.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. Jameson informs us :—
1. That she never had any other hallucination of sight, hearing, or any
other sense.
2. There was no point of coincidence with fact in the two tombstones,
the tiger lily, &c.
3. She thinks the interval of time between the vision of tombstones and
the vision of figures was about five or ten minutes. " The white stones
changed soon and suddenly, the leaden hue lasted longer, then came the
flowers. Then Ifelt the unseen presence, and on turning round or over to
my little son, who began to chatter, these figures appeared together, as I have
told you, and I sat up in bed and watched them steadfastly until they
vanished close to the outer wall of the house."
4. The walls, the gas full on, and all in her bedroom, were visible to her,
but she/eit that her brother and the lady had an environment of their own.
She remembers most distinctly her brother's curly hair.
5. She does not think that she had been more than usually anxious about
her brother. She had been speaking of him, and had written to him that day.
6. She never mentioned the vision to her brother, and does not know
anything about him on the night in question , except that she heard on the
Monday that he had seemed a little better on Saturday night.
The vision affected her very much.
And now for three narratives, or rather groups of narratives,
where unseen protection or guidance seems to be suggested. I leave
the first in the original French, in the hope that its publication may
The Subliminal Self. 545
bring other narratives of the same kind, from countries where com
pulsory military service is in vogue.
P. 147.
The following interesting cases of presentiment were sent to us by Pro
fessor G. Hulin, of the University of Ghent, who wrote to Professor
Sidgwick on April 13th, 1894 :—
Ghent, Place de l'Evêché, 3.
Dear Sir, —At the congress of Psychology held at Paris in 1889, I had
the honour of making your acquaintance, and had a conversation with your
self and Mrs. Sidgwick about second sight and similar subjects. At that
time, I had never within my immediate experience come across any certain
and well-established fact of the sort. Since then I had the occasion of
observing a case of presentiment which struck me because it is certified by
trustworthy witnesses, and if a mere coincidence, it is certainly a most
extraordinary one. So, although I own I am still rather sceptical about
that class of phenomena, I send you herewith a narrative of the facts,
thinking the case may interest you. 1 take the liberty of writing it in
French, as I want to be sure of the correctness of my statements.
Georges Hulin.
Vers le commencement de l'hiver 1890-91, un jeune homme du nom de
Charles-Louis Casset, du village de Loo-ten-Hulle (Flandre Orientale) où ma
famille a sa résidence d'été, annonça, près de deux mois à l'avance, qu'il
amènerait au tirage au sort pour la milice, le numéro 90 (on sait que le
recrutement de l'armée Belge se fait par voie de conscription). Plusieurs
personnes entendirent cette prédiction, faite sur un ton de parfaite assurance,
et qu'il renouvela devant le commissaire d'arrondissement présidant au
tirage au sort. A la stupéfaction générale, ce numéro sortit en effet.
Le bruit en étant parvenu à nos oreilles, je voulus m'assurer de
l'authenticité du fait, et interrogeai plusieurs personnes, entre autres la mère
du jeune homme. Tous m'affirmèrent avoir entendu la prédiction. Je
m'adressai alors au commissairo d'arrondissement, M. van Dooren, qui
me donna l'attestation écrite que voici :
. . . . " Cette année-ci, le milicien Casset, Ch8 L*, de Loo-ten-
Hulle, me demande, avant de tirer, si le no 90 se trouvait encore dans
l'urne ; sur ma réponse affirmative il s'écria : 'C'est celui-là qu'il me faut ! '
Appelé à tirer, il amena en effet le numéro 90.
"Le Commissaire d'Arrondissement,
(Signé) "Jules van Dooren."
En présence de ce témoignage officiel le doute n'était plus permis. Très in
trigué, je tâchai de savoir comment le jeune homme avait eu ce pressentiment.
Au printemps, quand mes parents furent retournés à Loo-ten-Hulle, je le
fis venir à la maison, et l'interrogeai. Jusque-là il n'avait voulu répondre
à personne ; sans doute je lui inspirai plus de confiance, car, après quelques
hésitations, il me fit le récit suivant.
Comme la plupart des fils de petits cultivateurs, il avait grand peur du
service militaire, qui devait priver sa famille de son travail. Plusieurs mois
d'avance il était donc préoccupé et anxieux, et pensait constamment au jour
fatal du tirage au sort.
546 F. W. H. Myers.
Environ deux mois avant celui-ci, une nuit qu'il venait de se coucher il
vit dans un coin de sa chambre une forme indistincte, mais grande et
élevée, de sorte que de son lit il devait lever les yeux pour la voir. La seule
chose qu'il pouvait clairement percevoir, c'était la chiffre 90 en grands carac
tères, " espacés d'environ un poing."
Il se souleva, ferma les yeux et les rouvrit pour bien s'assurer qu'il ne
rêvait point. L'apparition était toujours là, aussi indéniable qu'au premier
moment. Saisi de frayeur, il se mit à prier, et ainsi, peu à peu, s'endormit.
Dès le premier moment il avait eu l'intuition que ce nombre 90 était
celui qu'il tirerait et que c'était un bon numéro.
A partir de cette nuit, il eut l'esprit tout-à-fait tranquille et dit à tous
ceux qui s'étonnaient de ce calme qu'il savait qu'il aurait le numéro 90. On
crut d'abord à une plaisanterie, mais il affirmait cela avec tant de conviction
que bientôt il excita la curiosité.
Comme je lui demandais s'il avait dans sa vie eu d'autres visions, il me
dit que non, mais que, après la première apparition, il eut souvent la même
vision, même le jour, pendant son travail. Il ajoutait judicieusement que ce
n'étaient plus sans doute de vraies apparitions, mais seulement l'effet de
son imagination vivement frappée.
Cependant il croit avoir réellement revu l'apparition mystérieuse dans la
chambre où se faisait le tirage au sort, avant de plonger la main dans le
tambour. Il dit au président qu'il était inutile qu'il tirât, que son numéro
était 90. Le président lui répondit de ne pas plaisanter et de prendre un
billet. En tendant celui-ci au président il répéta que c'était 90.
Ce récit me fut fait avec un grand air de sincérité et de scrupuleuse
exactitude. Le jeune homme, qui semble doux et intelligent, parlait à voix
basse avec une émotion visible, et me demanda de ne rien dire aux autres
habitants du village. H croit évidemment à une intervention surnaturelle.
Je m'adressai encore au commissaire d'arrondissement pour lui
demander s'il se rappelait d'autres cas où des miliciens avaient prédit le
numéro qu'ils tireraient. A cette époque (1891) il ne s'en rappelait qu'un
seul, qu'il voulut bien me certifier par écrit en même temps que celui
rapporté plus haute :
. . . "en 1886, au tirage au sort, à Eeclo le milicien Masco
(Ferdinand), de cette ville, m'a déclaré, avant le tirage, qu'il amènerait le
no 112, ce qui fut vrai."
Depuis, il m'a signalé trois autres cas : l'hiver dernier ou le précédent (sa
lettre n'est malheureusement pas datée, et mes souvenirs ne sont pas précis
sur ce point), il m'écrivait ce qui suit :
" Un fait bizarre et digne d'être raconté s'est produit mercredi dernier
au tirage au sort pour la milice à Maldeghem. Un inscrit du nom de
Pamvels (Edouard), de la commune d'Adeghem, en s'approchant de l'urne
déclara hautement au commissaire d'arrondissement qui présidait la séance,
qu'il amènerait le no 216, et ce fut en effet ce numéro qu'il tira et qui fut
proclamé. Il y avait encore au moins 150 numéros dans le tambour. Le
plus bas numéro était 46 et le plus élevé 223."
Enfin, cet hiver même, il m'a envoyé avec sa carte de visite un journal
contenant l'entrefilet ci-joint, concernant deux nouveaux cas constatés par
lui-même.
The Subliminal Self. 547
The newspaper cutting enclosed is as follows :— FeVrier 1894
Tiraoe au Sort.—Deux faits bizarres se sont produits au tirage au sort
qui eut lieu a Eecloo samedi dernier.
Le milicien Camille Pyfferoen, s'approchant de l'urne, déclare a M. le
commissaire d'arrondissement, qui presidait les operations, qu'il avait revi,
la nuit passee, qu'il amenait le numdro 111, et qu'il etait convaincu que le
sort l'aurait favorisd de ce bon numero.
L'iuteressd amena, en effet, le no 111. M. le commissaire lui ayant
( demand^ si ce qu'il avait déclare eteit bien reel, le milicien appela son pere
en confirmation de ses dires.
Un second milicien, Louis Crispyn, annouga qu'il amdnerait le no 116 ;
mais sur l'observation que celui-ci était déja tird, il declare qu'il prendrait
alors le numero précedent, et il tira, en effet, le no 115.
These cases of conscription-numbers foretold seem to me much
more impressive than the somewhat similar dreams of races of which
we have printed several specimens ; since the event is absolutely
incalculable, the numerical chance against success is much greater,
and the testimony of the presiding officer on so serious an
occasion carries weight. The nearest parallel which I can find to these
incidents is the guiding of Mr. Stainton Moses' hand to open a book at
a particular page (Proceedings, Vol. XI., p. 106). It seems perhaps
„ less incredible that some suggestion at the moment should have
guided the fortunate percipient to the lucky number—which his less
fortunate comrades must also have been guided to leave ready for
him—than that the exact disposition of the numbers in the urn should
have been foreseen months beforehand by any finite intelligence. Of
course, however, we cannot tell how many conscripts may have dreamt
—and announced—that they will draw a particular number, and have
failed to draw it.
The second case in this series is in many ways noteworthy. I
place it here because it looks as though suggestion had been exercised
upon the railway porter to prevent him from asking for the ticket,
much as upon the conscripts to cause them to draw the desired number.
There is also premonition as regards various incidents of the journey.
P. 220.
The narrative which follows is of an unusual and complex type. Its main
purport is concerned with a continued knowledge of terrene affairs evinced
by a departed spirit. But this, the kernel of the case, must be kept entirely
secret, for reasons affecting survivors ; which reasons, so far as I can judge
from a very partial knowledge of them, are entirely sufficient. For the same
reasons the true names (all of which are known to me) have had to be
altered throughout and various details omitted. Thus deprived of its
central significance the narrative presents the following type.
Mrs. Claughton (here so-called) visits a house reputed haunted. She
there twice sees a phantasm, which she is able to describe ; the description
548 F. W. H. Myers.
suiting a deceased lady unknown to her, who had lived in that house. There
is external evidence to the fact that she twice saw this phantom and was
greatly impressed. The phantom appeared to speak at some length ; and
made many statements of facts unknown to Mrs. Claughton. Some of these
were such as could be at once verified ; and they were found correct. Others
related to an expedition which Mrs. Claughton was enjoined to make to a
village, here called Meresby, of which she had not previously heard. Certain
persons whom she would find there were described by name and with
other details. Certain incidents of her future journey thither were also
described ; thus bringing this case within our definition of premonitions ;
although it may be urged that the fulfilment of the predictions was
accomplished by suggestions given to certain persons by the disembodied
intelligence ; so that no true precognition was needed. Mrs. Claughton
went to Meresby and found all as foretold. She there received (as had also
been foretold) additional communications ; and she then obeyed certain
orders as to the communication of facts to survivors. That she made the
journey, and certain subsequent visits, is proved by external evidence. As
to the messages to survivors, nothing is known beyond Mrs. Claughton's
own statement that they effected the intended results.
This whole story is no doubt very different from the usual tenor of our
narratives, and much more resembles some of the figments of romance. On
the other hand the evidence for the external facts of the narrative is
absolutely conclusive. There is (as will be seen) no doubt whatever that
Mrs. Claughton did make the journey to Meresby, giving as her reason
some message conveyed to her on an occasion when she undoubtedly was
found fainting in the middle of the night. There is no doubt that at
Meresby she obtained admission to the church at a similar hour of the
night ; nor that after so visiting the church she paid certain other visits to
persons previously strangers to her.
Nor has any explanation due either to self-interest or to insanity been
suggested, so far as I can discover, by any of the persons concerned. The
whole expedition was a source merely of trouble and embarrassment to Mrs.
Claughton, who left a sick child to attend to the alleged injunction, under
circumstances of much inconvenience, and with no possible advantage to
herself.
An explanation from insanity or hysterical desire of notoriety is equally
untenable. Mrs. Claughton is a widow lady, moving in good society, with
children growing up, and known to many persons as a cheerful, capable,
active woman, who has seen much of the world, and has plenty of business
of her own to attend to ;—and who is by no means given to dwelling on
things morbid or mysterious. She has, indeed, had some previous ex
periences of apparitions, which all appear to have been vendical, but she has
paid but little attention to them, and has never sought to encourage such
visitations in any way.
This present adventure she kept as quiet as she could ; but other people
had heard vaguely of it, and she was annoyed by distorted versions ; so that
she ultimately consented to give to the Marquis of Bute, and through him
to our Society, her own account of such incidents as she did not, for the
sake of survivors, feel bound to conceal.
The Subliminal Self. 549
The written evidence now existing may be divided into three parts.
I.—Mrs. Claughton's own diary, written mainly in pencil, before, during,
and after the Moresby journey. This diary bears the marks of hasty writing
and is dated from day to day and in parts from hour to hour, during the
events which interest us. This diary contains the secret matter, and has
not been entrusted by Mrs. Claughton to any one ; but Lord Bute and
I have been allowed to read portions of it, and to observe the dates of the
important entries therein.
Along with this diary must be classed a document which I am allowed to
reproduce almost in toto ; viz., a sheet of memoranda made by Mrs.
Claughton before her Meresby visit, as to what was to happen to her there,
and what she was to do. I became possessed of this document in the
following manner.
Mrs Claughton had stated that she was told beforehand [by the phantom]
that her ticket (the outward half of a return-ticket) would not be asked
for on her arrival at Meresby ; and that in fact it was not asked for.
That it was not asked for is proved by the fact that Mrs. Claughton
sent it to the Dr. Ferrier of the story, who testifies to having possessed
it, and to having seen a letter from the Railway Company stating that no
other ticket had been issued from London for Meresby by the train in
question. But Mrs. Claughton had not mentioned the prediction as to the
ticket to Dr. Ferrier before her journey. I therefore asked her orally
whether she had made any memorandum of her own as to the ticket before
- that journey. At my request she at once brought her packet of private
papers connected with the case ; searched amongst them in my presence,
and found a paper of memoranda as to what she was to do and to expect on
the journey, written before starting. Cutting off a part of that paper which
dealt with the secret matters, she gave me the rest and I reproduce it
below. The porter's omission to take the ticket is therefore predicted in
writing before the event, along with many other particulars as to the
Meresby visit.
II.—The second main piece of evidence is an account, written by Mr.
Andrew Lang, the well-known author, and sent by him to the S.P.R.,
embodying the written and oral statements of Dr. Ferrier (and of another
friend) communicated verbally while Mrs. Claughton was actually on her
journey, and in writing before the incidents and result of that journey were
known. Mr. Lang's account thus reproduces Mrs. Claughton's preliminary
statement to Dr. Ferrier, in which some trifling errors have been since
corrected in notes by Mrs. Claughton. As to this statement, and the ticket
incident especially, Dr. Ferrier writes to me, June 10, 1895: "I do not
possess the ticket, but Mrs. Claughton sent it to me, and I gave it up, in
order that enquiries might be made about it, as I thought she had perhaps
taken two tickets, and that this was the unused one. I saw, but do not
possess the letter from the Railway Company stating that the ticket in
question was the only one issued by that train from London to Meresby, and
that they were not able to account for it not having been given up. I
possess the letter from, the Curate of Meresby to the Rev. Mr. Johnson,
which confirmed in a general way the account given by Mrs. Claughton of
her doings there."
550 F. W. H. Myers.
Of the account given to Mr. Lang, Dr. Ferrier says : "It was revised,
though not signed by me. I would rather trust to ita accuracy than to my
present recollection of the circumstances of the case."
III.—The third main document is the account dictated by Mrs. Claughton
to Lord Bute, May 17th, 1895, giving for the first time an authentic history
of the journey to Meresby. This account is supported by corroborative
letters from persons concerned. It will be well to begin with this account
as the substantive statement, and to add other papers as corroboration.
Statement made by Mrs. Claughton to the Marquis of Bute.
Mrs. Claughton is constitutionally second-sighted, as are many members
of her family, and has had frequent psychical experiences, but has never
tried to excite the faculty by artificial means, such as crystal gazing
or sitting for raps. She has sat as a joke with her hands on tables
which moved, but she cannot tell whether the movement was connected
with her.
She was staying in 1893 with her two children at 6, Blake-street, a house
belonging to Mrs. Appleby, daughter of the late Mrs. Blackburn (who died
after three days' residence, December 22nd, 1878, of a wasting illness, which
had lasted three years), but let to Mr. Buckley. They had so done at least
five or six times before, during about seven years. Had heard the house
was haunted, and may have heard the ghost was Mrs. Blackburn's. Had
been told water was found spilt on the floors inexplicably. They arrived on
October 4th. About 1.15 a.m., Monday, October 9th, Mrs. Claughton was
in bed with one of her children, the other sleeping in the room. Mrs.
Claughton had offered to be of any use she could to Miss Buckley, who
had arrived from London unwell on the Saturday. She had been asleep,
and was awakened by the footsteps of a person coming downstairs, whom
she supposed to be a servant coming to call her to Miss Buckley. The
stops stopped at the door. The sounds were repeated twice more at the
interval of a few moments. Mrs. Claughton rose, lit the candle, and opened
the door. There was no one there. She noticed the clock outside was at
1.20. She shut the door, got into bed, read, and leaving the candle burning,
went to sleep. Woke up, finding the candle spluttering out. Heard a sound
like a sigh. Saw a woman standing by the bed. She had a soft white shawl
round the shoulders, held by the right hand towards the left shoulder,
bending slightly forwards. Mrs. Claughton thinks the hair was lightish
brown, and the shawl partly over the head, but does not remember distinctly,
and has no impression of the rest of the dress : it was not grave-clothes.
She said, "Follow me." Mrs. Claughton rose, took the candle, and
followed her out of the room, across the passage, and into the drawing-
room. She has no recollection as to the opening of the doors. The house
maid next day declared that the drawing-room door had been locked by her.
On entering the drawing-room, Mrs. Claughton, finding the candle on the
point of extinction, replaced it with a pink one from the cheffonier near the
door. The figure went nearly to the end of the room, turned three-quarters
round, said "to-morrow," and disappeared. Mrs. Claughton returned to
the bedroom, where she found the elder child (not the one in the bed)
sitting up. It asked, " Who is the lady in white 1 " Mrs. Claughton thinks
The Subliminal Self. 551
she answered the child, " It's only me— mother ; go to sleep," or the like
words, and hushed her to sleep in her arms. The baby remained fast asleep.
She lit the gas and remained awake for some two hours, then put out the
lights and went to sleep. Had no fear while seeing the figure, but was upset
after seeing it. Would not be prepared to swear that she might not have
walked in her sleep. Pink candle, partly burnt, in her room in morning.
Does not know if she took it burnt or new.
In the morning she spoke to Mr. Buckley, on whose advice she went to
ask Dr. Ferrier as to the figure about 3 p.m. He and his wife said the
description was like that of Mrs. Blackburn, whom Mrs. Claughton already
suspected it to be. Thinks Dr. Ferrier told her that Miss Blackburn (Mrs.
Appleby) had seen her mother in the same house. Mrs. Claughton cannot
recognise the photograph of Mrs. Blackburn shewn to her by Mr. Y. (who
got it from Mrs. M.) She says the figure seemed smaller, and the features
much more pinched and attenuated, like those of a person in the last stage
of consumption, which was also the general appearance. By his advice, Mr.
Buckley put an electric bell under Mrs. Claughton's pillow, communicating
with Miss Buckley's room, as Mrs. Claughton determined to sit up that
night and watch.
That night Mrs. Claughton sat up dressed, with the gas burning. About
12 she partly undressed, put on dressing-gown and lay down outside bed,
gas still burning, and fell asleep reading. Woke up and found the same
woman as before, but the expression even more agitated. She bent over
.Jlrs. Claughton and said : "I have come. Listen 1" She then made a
certain statement and asked Mrs. Claughton to do certain things. Mrs.
Claughton said : " Am I dreaming, or is it true ? " The figure said some
thing like : " Tf you doubt me, you will find that the date of my marriage
was + + + " (this is the date of the marriage, which took place in India,
of Mrs. Blackburn to Mr. Blackburn, who is alive and married again. Mrs.
Claughton first learned the corroboration of the date from Dr. Ferrier on
the following Thursday). After this Mrs. Claughton saw a man standing on
Mrs. B. 's left hand—tall, dark, well-made, healthy, sixty years old, or more,
ordinary man's day clothes, kind, good expression. A conversation ensued
between the three, in course of which the man stated himself to be George
Howard, buried in Meresby Churchyard (Mrs. Claughton had never heard
of Meresby or of George Howard), and gave the dates of his marriage + + +
and death + + + [Entries of these dates seen by me in Mrs. Claughton's
pocket-book, as torn out and lent to me.—F. W. H. M.] He desired
Mrs. Claughton to go to Meresby and verify these dates in the registers,
and, if found correct, to go to the church at the ensuing 1.15 a.m.
and wait at the grave therein (S.W. corner of S. aisle) of Richard
Hart, died + + +, ffitat +. She was to verify this reference also
in the registers. He said her railway-ticket would not be taken, and she
was to send it along with a white rose from his grave to Dr. Ferrier.
Forbade her having any previous communication with the place, or going in
her own name. Said Joseph Wright, a dark man, to whom she should
describe him, would help her. That she would lodge with a woman who
would tell her that she had a child (drowned) buried in the same churchyard.
When Mrs. Claughton had done all this, she should hear the rest of the
552 F. W. H. Myers.
history. Towards the end of the conversation, Mrs. Claughton saw a third
phantom, of a man whose name she is not free to give, in great trouble,
standing, with hands on face (which he afterwards lowered, showing face),
behind Mrs. Blackburn's right. The three disappeared. Mrs. Claughton
rose and went to the door to look out at the clock, but was seized with faint-
ness, returned and rang the electric bell. Mr. Buckley found her on the
ground. She was able to ask the time, which was about 1.20. Then
fainted, and the Buckleys undressed her and put her to bed.
That morning, Tuesday, Mrs. Claughton sent for Dr. Ferrier, who
corroborated certain matters so far as she asked him, and ascertained for her '
the date of Mrs. Blackburn's marriage (she received his note of the date on
Thursday). She went to the Post Office, and found that " Moresby "
existed. Returned, and ascertained that it is in Suffolk, and so wrote that
evening to Dr. Ferrier, and went to London with her daughters that
(Thursday) evening.
Friday night, Mrs. Claughton dreamt that she arrived at 5 after dusk,
that a fair was going on, and that she hud to go to place after place to get
lodgings. Also, she and her eldest daughter dreamt that she would fail if
she did not go alone. Went to station for 12 noon train on Saturday. Went
to refreshment room for luncheon, telling porter to call her in time. He
went by mistake to waiting room, and she missed train and had to wait (going
to the British Museum, where she wrote her name in Jewel Room) until
3.5, as stated. [Hours of trains slightly altered. —F. W. H. M.] House
where she finally found lodgings that of Joseph Wright, who turned ii
out to be the Parish Clerk. She sent for the curate by porter, to ask
as to consulting registers, but as he was dining out he did not come
till after she had gone to bed. Sunday morning, Mrs. Wright spoke
to her about her drowned child buried in the churchyard. Went to fore
noon service, and immediately afterwards went into vestry and verified the
registers ; described George Howard to Joseph Wright, who had known him
and recognised description ; then was taken by Joseph Wright to the graves
of Richard Hart and George Howard. On the latter there is no stone, but
three mounds surrounded by a railing overgrown with white roses. She
gathered rose for Dr. Ferrier, as had been directed. Walk and talk with
curate, who was not sympathetic. After luncheon went with Mrs. Wright
and walked round Howard's house (country house in park). Attended
evening service, and afterwards, while watching the lights put out and the
church furniture covered up, wondered if she would have nerve to go on.
Back to supper ; afterwards slept and had dream of a terrorizing character,
whereof has full written description. Dark night, hardly any moon, a few
stars. To church with Joseph Wright at 1 a.m., with whom searched
interior and found it empty. At 1.20 was locked in alone, having no light ;
had been told to take Bible, but had only Church-service, which she had left
in vestry in the morning. Waited near grave of Richard Hart. Felt no
fear. Received communication, but does not feel free to give any detail.
No light. History begun at Blake Street then completed. Was directed to
take another white rose from George Howard's grave, and give it personally
to his daughter (unmarried—living at Hart Hall), and to remark her likeness
to him. About 1.45 Joseph Wright knocked and let Mrs. Claughton out.
The Subliminal Self. 553
Went to George Howard's grave and gathered rose for Miss Howard, as had
been directed. Home and bed, and slept well for the first time since first
seeing Mrs. Blackburn.
Next day went and sketched church and identified grave of Mrs. Rowe,
on whose grave, she had been told in church, she would find a message for
herself. The words engraved are + + +
Then called on Miss Howard and recognised strong likeness to her father—
carried out all things desired by the dead to the full, as had been requested.
Has had no communication from any of them since. Nothing since has
f appeared in Blake Street. The wishes expressed to her were not illogical
or unreasonable, as the ratiocination of dreams often appears, but perfectly
rational, reasonable, and of natural importance.
Signed by Mrs. Claughton, May 17th, 1895.
Copy of Memoranda for journey made by Mrs. Claughton.
Go to Meresby. Railway ticket not asked for. Porter to have one of
K. 's names [i.e., to have as a surname the Christian name of one of
Mrs. Claughton's daughters, —which turned out to be the case.—F.W.H.M.]
Ask for marriage register of George Howard. Find out last day the
name Mrs. T.
Find grave in churchyard with white roses.
Send white rose to Dr. Ferrier.
t Ask on arrival at Meresby for Mr. Francis. [The gentleman so designated
was concerned in the private matters ; was found as predicted.—F.W.H.M.]
Dark man Wright—big fresh-coloured healthy fellow—will help me in
what I have to do.
Find grave of Richard Hart in church.
Verify home of Mr. Howard.
Verify village—village fair going on. [There was a fair going on in
Meresby, as predicted. —F.W.H.M.]
Church standing far away by itself. [Found true.—F.W.H.M.]
Stay in house of woman whose boy is buried in same churchyard as Mr.
Howard. [Found when in house that boy was so buried.—F.W.H.M]
Watch in church by Mr. Hart's grave. Dark man—Wright—to take me
there.
Mr. Andrew Lang's statement.
1, Marloes-road, Kensington, W.
October 17th, 1893.
[The sentences in square brackets are added by Mrs. Claughton, slightly
correcting Mr. Lang's account.]
I send the following narrative, not for its value as evidence, but because
it enables us to take a ghost half volley, as it were, the adventure being, to
my knowledge, at this moment incomplete. The proceedings of the ghost, it
will be remarked, are vienx jen, and such as we seldom meet in modern
science. The tale was told to me orally, last night (October 16th) by a
gentleman whom I shall call Dr. Ferrier. He is connected, as trustee, with
the haunted house. To-day he brought me his narrative written out partly
554 F. W. H. Myers.
by himself, partly by Mrs. Ferrier, and he added some facts vird voce. Here
begins his M.S. with all names altered. A. L.
Statement by Dr. Ferrier.
Mrs. Elizabeth Blackburn died at 5 a.m., on December 22nd, 1878, in 6,
Blake-street, into which she had moved only a few days previously. Her
disease was chronic diarrhoea of long standing. Her children stayed on in
the house till the eldest girl married Mr. Appleby in 1880. The eldest son
informed me that they frequently heard strange noises in the house during
the night. The house was empty for a time, then tenanted for five years,
during which no noises are reported. The house again was empty till Lady
Day, 1888, when the present occupier, Mr. Buckley, entered. His mother
and two sisters, on their entry, were much alarmed by sounds as if of heavy
steps on the stair-case, which is of stone. This lasted for three years, but
was never heard by Mr. Buckley. A few months after the family entered
water burst out in the front area, from the breaking of a water main.1
About two years after the affair of the main, Miss Buckley was in the attic,
kneeling by a trunk, when she felt some water " switched " at her. She
thought it was a practical joke of her brother's, but he was not in the room.
A small pool of water was on the floor where she stood, and the wall beyond
was sprinkled. Soon after, as Mr. Buckley went upstairs in the dark, carry
ing an ink bottle and some pens, he found his hand wet. He thought it
must be ink, but on getting to the light found it was clean water ; there wa«
a little pool of water on the stair where this occurred, but no sign of damp
on the ceiling above.
For almost two years since this occurred no noises have been heard.
In October, 1893, a Mrs. Claughton came to stay in the house. She had
frequently been a visitor, and, on one occasion, when nursing Mrs. Buckley
(mere), had heard footsteps coming and going on the stairs. In this last visit
(October, 1893) she began to hear footsteps and the dragging of a heavy
weight on the stairs about 1a.m. [October 8th. No footsteps or anything
peculiar was heard till the Sunday night. Mrs. Claughton went to stay in
the house the previous Tuesday.] She was awakened by a chill wind blowing
across her face, though window and door were shut, and it was a calm still
night. On the night of October 8th and 9th, after hearing the noises and
feeling the wind, she opened her eyes, and saw leaning over her the figure of
a woman, who was looking at her intently and very sadly.2 The woman said
in a distinct voice, "follow me," whereon Mrs. Claughton rose and followed
her into the next room, the drawing-room.3 She took her bed-room candle
which was flickering in the socket, and, in the drawing-room, paused to
replace it by a pink candle from a table. She then saw that the figure
had reached the further end of the drawing-room ; the figure turned her
1 Water is only carried up to the first floor. There ia an unused system of hot air
pipes. The sounds lasted after the main was mended. [Note by A. L.]
- Mrs Claughton describes the appearance as very emaciated, sad and kindly of
expression, the head swathed in a ramchudder shawl. [Note by A. L.]
8 Mrs. C. 's account ofthis is that the figure passed through the locked door. How
she entered herself she does not recollect. [Note by A. L.]
The Subliminal Self. 555
head, said, in a distinct voice, " to-morrow," and vanished. Mrs. Claughton
returned to her room, and heard no more that night.l
The woman came to her bedside on the following night, and, after making
her take most solemn oaths of secrecy, [made her a certain communication,
and asked her to do certain things.] Mrs. C. was to go to a place of which
she had never heard, to a house and a man whom the figure described. This
man would help her in what she had to do, including a nocturnal visit to a
church where she would receive some information.
The Buckleys were wakened by the alarum wildly pealed, and found Mrs.
Claughton in a swoon on her bed. [Mrs. Claughton said she had been asked
to go to a place, the name of which she had never before heard.] Dr. Ferrier
recommended her to consult a postal guide for the name of the place which
she did not communicate to him. She did, however, ask Mr. Buckley if he
had ever heard of such a place as Meresby (not the real name), and it is as
obscure as a village can be, and within four to five hours of London.
Mrs. Claughton left the town where these events occurred on October
11th for London, meaning to visit Meresby as soon as possible. Here my
information ceases, except that her governess in town (after her arrival
there), was disturbed all night by moans, laments, and sounds as of an
electric machine out of order (October 13th). Mrs. C. had asked Dr. Ferrier
for the [date] of Mrs. Blackburn's marriage. He sent her a note from Mrs.
Appleby, giving place and date.
Mrs. Claughton at once showed Mr. Buckley and Dr. Ferrier that date
noted in her diary.
In a later letter, dated October 26th, 1893, Mr. Lang writes :—
There is now no doubt that Mrs. Claughton did all she says. She went,
on October 14th, to a very remote small place. The parish clerk there and
the curate (the rector being off duty from age), corroborate things in written
statements.2 She says she reached the place I call " Meresby " in the
evening, went to the clerk named by ghost, and asked for parish registers.
She saw these on Sunday (October 15th) after Matins. There she found
entries (she says) corresponding with those given by ghosts. The curate, of
course, can only say she searched for those names, which I need not give.
She expressed satisfaction. She passed some time in the church at 1—2
a.m. (after midnight), the clerk remaining outside. She then emerges, all
happened as she expected. She asked the clerk to take her to the grave of
[George Howard,] one of the parties in the register; he died in the same year
' as ghost ( Mrs. Blackburn). [It was the grave where she went after church in
the morning. It was too dark for her to find her way without the clerk's
guidance.] There she plucked a white rose and went back to bed.
So far clerk and curate.
[Mrs. Claughton has said to no one what happened in the church.] Here
comes a curious thing. Originally she said (Dr. Ferrier remembers it) that
she saw more than one phantasm, [three persons] on the second night, October
1 On the following morning she consulted Dr. Ferrier. He advised her to change
her room, which she disdained as cowardly. He suggested fixing up an electric alarm
in her room, which was done. [Note by A. L. ]
2 1 have seen curate's and clerk's reports. [Note by A. L. ]
556 F. W. H. Myers.
9th, when she rang the alarum. One of these was owner of the said grave.
That ghost bade her go and see his daughter, [and that in her face she, Mrs.
Claughton, would see the likeness to her father.] Mrs. Blackburn only sent
vague messages of forgiveness, and it was site who insisted on the flower-
plucking. On Monday, October 16th, Mrs. Claughton called on daughter of
owner of grave (at Meresby), and gave the ghost's message. She lives some
way outside of the little village. Mrs. Claughton describes this lady's father
[to her, and the lady said the description was that of her father.] The clerk
corroborates fact of visit to the daughter. Mrs. Claughton returned to town
on the following day. [She travelled up in the same carriage as a lady and
gentleman and a child, who she afterwards found had been staying at the
Rectory. The child was cold, and Mrs. Claughton lent her a jacket, and
then entered into conversation, they saying they had been staying at Meresby
Rectory.] Mrs. Claughton has no natural knowledge of the place or
parties. [Mrs. Claughton feels relief that she has been able to carry out
satisfactorily what she had undertaken,] and is apparently convinced she saw
phantasms [either in a dream or reality]. ^
By the way, spectres throwing water occur in some of your society's
reports (Proceedings XIX. 189), and in old books. This occurred not to
Mrs. Claughton but to her friends, before her adventure.
The clerk of the parish of " Meresby " states that Mrs. Claughton
correctly described one of their local ghosts as he was when alive, though
nobody knows how she even knew of his existence. Neither thia latter
ghost nor Mrs. Blackburn seems to have been known to Mrs. Claughton.
[Mrs. Claughton was in England in 1878, in the same place, as far as she can
remember, as where Mrs. Blackburn died, only she did not know her.]
Copiesfrom tombstones in Meresby Churchyard.
(1) To teach self-sacrifice and simple faith this stone recalls the sweet
memory of Constance, the dearly-loved wife of Thomas Carden ; born
May 2nd, 1851 ; died, 17th January, 1891.
"And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest."
(2) Richard Hart, Esq., 15th May, 1745, aged 67 years.
(3) Marriage. George Howard, merchant, November 7th, 1839, Hatcham;
died August 7th, 1878, aged 72.
Statement by the Clerk of Meresby, written out October '22nd, 1893.
I am clerk of the Parish of Meresby. On Saturday evening, October 14th,
a lady who gave the name of Claughton, after going to several places for
lodgings, came to my house, accompanied by porter with luggage. I accom
modated the lady with lodgings. She told me that she wanted to look at the
church registers, and did I think the curate would come and speak to her at
my house. I told her I thought he would, as she would like to see them on
Sunday. The lady then sent note by porter to curate, who was just going
out to dinner so did not come till about half-past eleven, when lady ha i
retired to bed. He asked me to apologise to her for not coming before, but
would be happy for her to see registers on Sunday morning after service.
The lady came to morning service, and afterwards came to vestry and
asked for registers of Richard Hart and George Howard, also giving descrip
The Subliminal Self. 557
tion of George Howard, which was quite correct, and dates of registers also
corresponded with those in the lady's journal. I then showed her the tomb
stone of Richard Hart, and also the grave of George Howard. Curate
refusing to assist lady any further, the lady asked me whether I would
accompany her to the church at twenty minutes past one Monday morning.
I told her I could not give a decided answer just then, but would do so after
evening service. Spoke to curate upon the matter after service. He told me
that he should not have any more to do with it, but that I could do as I
liked. I then told the lady I would do as requested. At a quarter to one
t o'clock I called her. We then proceeded to the church, and after looking
all around the interior, I left the lady in the church at twenty past one
o'clock in total darkness, locking the door on the outside. At twenty minutes
to two o'clock, by the lady's request, I gave three slight taps on the door,
unlocked it, when the lady came out. We then went to grave of George
Howard, where the lady plucked some roses. We then returned, reaching
home at about two o'clock.
(Signed) Joseph Wright,
Moresby, October 22nd. Parish Clerk.
Letterfrom the Clerk of Meresby.
Meresby, October 22ltd, 1893.
Dear Madam,—I have sent my statement, which I have made out to the
best of my abilities. I saw the curate last evening. He showed me a letter
that came from a man by the name of Johnson, of Barton, asking for par
ticulars about you1, and also whether I took you to the church on Saturday
night or Sunday morning, he put it, but, unfortunately, this letter was sent
to the vicarage, and, of course, the vicar was not supposed to know anything
about it. The curate seemed to be rather annoyed about it going there, as
it was decided to keep it a secret. Hoping that you arrived home quite safe,
—I remain yours obediently, Joseph Wright,
Pariah Clerk.
Letterfrom Mr. Buckley to Mrs. CUmghton.
Dear Mrs. Claughton,—There was a ghost before you came to stay in
the house. Wo took the house in ignorance of its reputation, and were only
told of it when we ourselves wanted to account for certain noises—walking
up and down stairs at night, etc., etc.
The water throwing business was as follows :—
My sister L. went up into the garrets or attics about 9 o'clock one
evening, with a candle in her hand, to get something from an old chest.
Water was thrown obliquely across the room, nearly extinguishing the
candle, wetting her hand, and leaving an oblique splash on the wall. There
was a pool of water on the floor as well.
My sister was alarmed at this, as she knew no one was in the room or on
that story with her. I was called to investigate it, and found'everybody in
the house ready to establish clearly that they were none of them above the
drawing-room at that moment, except my brother who came first to my
sister when she called out.
1 A gentleman whom Dr. Ferrier had asked to inquire as to Mrs. Claughton's
proceedings, so aa to check her own account.—F. W. H. M.
2 r
558 F. W. H. Myers.
My own experience is as follows :—
I went upstairs one evening about 9 o'clock, and on the bedroom landing
water was thrown at me wetting my hand and falling on the floor, which
was covered by oil-cloth, or linoleum.
I ran into each room and found nobody—upstairs into the attic—and
found nobody—and then went down and accounted for everybody in the
sitting-rooms and basement. There were no wet marks on ceilings in either
case.—Yours sincerely,
July, 1895. W- Buckley.
Statement by Mrs. Claughton's governess.
I was sitting at needlework in the schoolroom last night (Friday,
October 13th,) at about 11 o'clock. Mrs. Claughton was in her room, the
door shut, the servants all in bed. I heard some one crying or rather
sobbing, very low but very distinctly, as if their heart would break. I
immediately thought of Hilda and went half way downstairs when I found
her door wide open and all perfectly still. I returned to my work, the
sobbing continued, like a woman's or a girl's voice. I thought it strange
that one could hear so distinctly through the walls, but determined it must
be from next door and thought no more about it.
I was awakened from my first sleep by loud moans which seemed to fill
the room and come from every part. As soon as I was awake they ceased.
Oddly enough, I did not feel a bit frightened, but made up my mind that it
was a sudden gust of wind. I sat right up in bed and listened. All was
perfectly still, till I heard a very odd sound overhead like some electric
battery gone wrong and broken. I thought of thieves, then remembered
that the telegraph wires are fixed to this house, but thought it odd I should
hear them, having the nurseries over my room. I hesitated whether
I should go round the house and see if all were well, but determined to
go to sleep again, as the sound was certainly not that of housebreakers.
I also thought of a supernatural cause and could find none. I was
wide awake and sitting up in bed when I heard this strange sound, and
not being able to account for it satisfactorily, lay back and went to
sleep again. All was so perfectly still in the street and everywhere I
should imagine it must have been between the hours of one and two.
I slept soundly and was awakened at least three times more always with
these fearful moans, which filled the room, always feeling wide awake
and each time attributing it to the wind, although when one awoke the
sounds ceased and there was not a breath of wind to be heard. Towards
morning 1 distinctly heard a very, very heavy footstep overhead and
a heavy thud as of somebody moving something very cumbersome and
heavy. I thought of Richardson and wondered if she had returned
without any one knowing. As I knew the nurseries to be locked and the
keys (as I thSn thought) in her keeping, I sat up again and listened. All
was perfectly still. I knew I had not been dreaming, and yet could not
account for the noise, all being so perfectly still.
I slept again and heard the servants going down, some hours later, and
thought no more about my dreams until I saw Miss Claughton after break
fast. Mrs. Claughton had talked of Spiritualism during breakfast, yet
The Subliminal Self. 559
this did not bring my night's experience to my memory. It only all came
back link by link when I saw Miss Claughton and told her.
Saturday, October Uth, 1893. (Signed) Mahib Giraud.
The third series of narratives suggesting an unseen protection or
guidance comes from a witness of whose veracity and memory Mr.
G. A. Smith, who interviewed him for Mr. Gurney in Florida as long
ago as November, 1886, formed a very high opinion (see Proceedings,
Vol. V., p. 325). Mr. Smith's account, and some other recommenda
tions received of Mr. Skilton, led Mrs. Sidgwick to print some of his
experiences, (lac. cit.) Some subsequent correspondence has confirmed
the impression, and although the following incidents are remote and
uncorroborated, I think that they should be printed here.
Writing from Daytona, Florida, October 20, 1895, Mr. Skilton
tells me that the statements sent to Professor James were " written
down along as they occurred."
P. 158.
Mr. Skilton, writing from Jacksonville, Florida, November 10th, 1890,
sends to Professor James the following additional incidents " noted down
in my memorandum."
1. In giving this incident of my life in which I was guided by some very
mysterious influence beyond my control, I feel as though my life and
acts had been of some good and benefit to my fellow man. Being sick with
the mumps for some time and severe, I was confined to my room about
three weeks, but one morning feeling able to go to the R.R. Depot, 1 started
out ; my folks telling me I must not go away, as it was raining and bad
weather. However, I went on to the depot and the first train that came
in was a construction train out picking up iron and ties along the road, and
I very strangely went off dead-head on the train for a distance of twenty
miles where they went on the side track to let the express pass them, as
they were nearly due, and a very fast train of about seven cars, and
did not make this a stopping place. As this working-train had backed
in so as to clear the main track, and the switch set for the main track, the
conductor told the forward breakman to go up to open the switch, meaning
after the express had passed ; he then went with the engineer to the
carboose car for some purpose, but the brakeman went direct to the switch
and changed it to the side track, which of course the conductor nor engineer
knew nothing about. Just about this time I heard the express coming, and
saw the switch wrong, and the brakeman standing at it. I tried every way
in my power to get him to change it, but could not. I then started and ran
to change it myself, but just before I got to it, I fell down by some means,
but got up again and changed the switch just as the engine of the express
was coming on to the rails, and saved the terrible collision.
The engineer on the express stopped his train, after running by some
distance, and, backing up, called on the conductor and engineer to know
what that meant, but they, not having seen it, were in a puzzle to know
2 r 2
560 F. W. H. Myers.
what was going on ; but after being told what had happened, the question,
came up, who changed the switch and saved the train ? I told them I did.
They then wanted to know what I was doing on that train. I told them
I was a dead-head on it ; but for what purpose I did not know, as I ought
not to have come away from home that day, as I had been quite sick ; but
I thought it was all right as I had done a good thing. The engineer on the
express says, "Yes, you have saved my life and many others," and then
turning to conductor and engineer on the working train said, " You had
better keep a dead-head on your train all the time."
Now for an explanation of what that brakeman thought he was doing
would puzzle the oldest heads that know anything about railroad manage
ment !
I went home on that working train that night, and felt justified, though
I had gone away without any purpose ; and many times since, in meeting
this engineer of the express, he would say, " you are the man that saved
my life."
This happened before I had learned the art of railroading, but as for any
remuneration or favour, I never received as much as a " thank you " from the
R. R. Co. for what I did.
2. I do not call this a premonition ; you can style it what you think
proper.
As an introduction to it, I would say that I have been engaged a great
part of my life as a locomotive engineer, and this happened while engaged in
that business. I was engaged with two other men one day about two
o'clock p.m. in taking out some evergreen trees from a box car to take home
and set out ; they were large and heavy ; I had to run the car up on the
switch rails to get them out ; but as there was no train due till forty minutes
I would have plenty of time to get them out, and push the car back out of
the way. There had been a great deal of other freight put in the car after
mine was, so it was necessary to take out some of it before I could get at
mine. I opened the car door, and a barrel of eggs fell out on the ground,
and just at that instance I saw a medium-sized person standing at my right
hand clothed in white with a bright countenance, beaming with intelligence.
I knew what he wanted in an instant, although he put his hand on my
shoulder and said, " Come with me." We moved upward, and a little to the
south-east with the speed of lightning, as it were ; I could see the hills,
trees, buildings and roads as we went up side by side till they vanished out
of our sight. As we passed on, this glorious being that was with me told
me he was going to show me that bright heavenly world. We soon came
to a world of light and beauty, many thousand times larger than this earth,
with at least four times as much light. The beauties of this place were
beyond any human being to describe. I was seated by the tree of life on
a square bunch of what appeared to be a green velvet moss, about eighteen
inches high ; there I saw many thousands spirits clothed in white, and
singing the heavenly songs, and I could think of but one verse that I had
ever heard that would do justice to this heavenly music, and that is this,
" Hark what sweet music, what a song Sounds from the bright, celestial
throng ! " for it was the sweetest song I have ever heard. I here told my
attendant that it was the first time I had ever been perfectly at rest in my
The Subliminal Self. 561
life. They did not converse by sound, but each knew the other s thoughts at
the instant, and conversation was carried on in that way, and also with me.
After viewing the wonderful beauties of the place for some time and the
thousands of spirits, robed in spotless white, passing through the air, for
they did not confine themselves to the surface, but went every direction as
they pleased, I wanted to see my dear mother, two sisters, and a child of
mine that had died some time before this. The request was granted at once,
but I was not allowed to converse with them. They were standing in a row
in front of me, and I looked at them and coolly estimated the distance we
were apart at thirty feet, and wondered how these things could be. They
seemed very much pleased to see me, and I shall never forget how they wel
comed me when I first saw them, although no conversation passed. About
this time my attendant told me we must go back ; I wished to stay, but he told
me my time had not come yet, but would in due time, and that I should
wait with patience. At this we started back, and were soon out of sight
of that heavenly land. When we came in sight of this world, I saw every
thing as it looked from a great height, such as trees, buildings, hills, roads,
and streams, as natural as could be, till we came to the car that I had
opened the door, and I found myself there in the body, and he vanished
out of my sight. I spoke then (just as I opened my watch and found it
had been just twenty-six minutes that I had been engaged with that
mysterious one), and said I thought I had left this world for good. One of
the men said, " There is something the matter with you ever since you opened
the car door ; we have not been able to get a word out of you," and that I
had done all the work of taking out everything and putting it back into the
car, and one item was eight barrels of flour I had taken off the ground alone
and put them back in the car, three feet and a half high, with all the ease of
a giant. I told them where I had been and what I had seen, but they had
Been no one.
This I count the brightest day of my life, and what I saw is worth a life
time of hardship and toil. Being in good health, and in my right mind in
mid-day, while busy about my work, and my mind not more than ordinarily
engaged on the great subject of eternal life, I consider this a most extra
ordinary incident. I was told by this mysterious person that if we are
counted worthy at death, we shall be accompanied to that bright world by
one of those glorious beings, and this is my firm belief.
A Dream.
3. Being engaged running a locomotive with a local freight train for some
time, and there were several working or construction trains on the same
road, and one in particular that was very difficult to run and not get in the
way of other working trains, which offence would suspend the conductor
and engineer, or one of them at least ; and what made it still more com
plicated was that they had to run over several miles of another road where
there were many more trains to look after, as both roads ran over the
same track. After trying three or four conductors and engineers and all got
discharged or suspended for thirty or sixty days, the road master came to
me to take the engine I was running, and go and try it without a conductor,
and have charge of a large number of men as gang boss, working the men,
keeping their time mileage of the cars loaded and light, conducting the
562 F. W. H. Myers.
train, running the engine, and receiving all telegraph orders, making a
report each day of all I had done, and all that transpired—being stationed
out on the road at a small town.
After running it about two weeks, I dreamed one night that there was
a collision at that station of the fast express with the through freight train,
and that the engines were terribly broken up and passenger coaches, with
many killed and many more badly hurt. When I awoke, it was very vivid
in my mind, worried me throughout the day, but nothing happened ; but
the next morning when I was ready to go, the through freight train was
late, and came down, passing the station seven minutes on the express time
(one of the most reckless things they could have done, as it was in a cut,
and on a sharp curve where the express always came through at full speed).
My engine was standing over on the second side track with its train. Just
then I heard the express whistle for the station, — I saw my dream in an
instant, with all its horror, but, not supposing there was any chance to save
them, I took a red flag and ran out on the track and stopped the freight by
my signals, as I ran down the track towards the express, as it was in the
curve. As soon as the engineer saw the flag, he did all in his power to stop.
The two engines came within about ten feet of each other, as they stopped.
Now without any one to have flagged them, there is no telling what
the result would have been, as there were nine coaches, with all that could
stand up inside and out on the platforms, and no one else that could have
flagged the trains, as they were not there to do it if I had not done it. The
dream had aroused my mind so thoroughly that I was on the look out for
anything of the kind to happen ; otherwise I should not have paid any
attention to them, as I was not in the habit of meddling with other trains
when mine was out of the way. This was looked at by those interested
there at that time as a matter of chance, or luck, as some would have it—just
happened to be so, but if they [had] known what I did about it and had their
mind taxed as heavily as I did the day before, they would have thought
different ; for I practically knew of it more than twenty-four hours before it
came, and had it in my power to save it, and did it with joy.
I attribute this to the power of an unseen agent that worked upon my
mind so effectually as to entirely avoid the terrible accident that might have
Sent many to their long home.
How I Saved a Dreadful Collision.
4. I was once engaged as engineer on a fast express, and it became
necessary to change the time card on the R. R., as they put on another
express train which was to meet the train I ran at the point I took it, and in
changing the time they changed some of the most important rules in running
the road, and not making them quite as explicit as they should. When the
first day came for us to meet there, the new traindid not come. After wait
ing the usual time for the variation for watches, the conductor gave the signal
to go, but I shook my head. He stepped into the office and reported me to
the superintendent (who was there) immediately, saying he would not have
an engineer that would not go when he told him to. The superintendent
came out and asked what was the matter. I said he had no right to go
according to the time-card, but he called me into the office with several
other men, who all said I was wrong. The superintendent said he had made
The Subliminal Self. 563
the time-card and knew his business. But after parleying fifteen minutes,
and getting myself in a position to be discharged promptly, and all parties
being in a bad humour, I asked the superintendent to read over the rules that
related to meeting station, which he promptly said he would do, and show
me where I stood. He picked up a new time-card and began reading the
rules, but not coming to the one he wanted to, he was some time in getting
to it, and just using up the time, as I wanted him to, and before he got
quite to the rule he wanted to show me, I heard the familiar whistle of
the fast train up the grade about a mile. I tapped him on the shoulder
' with my hand and said, "That settles it." I ran out and just succeeded in
backing my train down the grade out of the way. I then went to the
superintendent and asked him what he thought about the time-card. He
said, " You have saved us one of the greatest collisions that was ever had on
a R. R." He says, "I can't see how you could see anything in the time-card
that would hold you so against such odds and men of experience, as to
utterly refuse to go out." I told him the time-card was not very plain, and
would not have kept me from obeying orders. " My will was to do just
what you wanted, but there was a very strong impression on my mind that
there was wrong in starting, which grew intense as the conductor gave the
signal ; it appeared to reach a point just at that time that it would have been
impossible to have got me to go." Although I was cool and quiet in the
midst of derision, I had faith to believe that my impression, come from
what source it would, was able to carry me through, and I determined to
j follow it at all hazards, and it brought me out in triumph.
The superintendent then said, " For this act, I will never find fault with
you hereafter,"—and he never did. The conductor that evening said, "You
are worthy of a pension, I will never dispute you on the rights of trains
again. "
Now this kind of a glorious informant, or a sure knowing of things not
yet happened, has been with me all of my railroad life, and has never
failed me in any instance, but has saved my life many times.
5. I was once firing a locomotive that was hauling iron over another road to
lay its track of. It was a fine new passenger engine, with large driving wheels
for making fast time, just from the builder's shop, and I thought I had been
very lucky to get so good a situation as to be fireman on so good a locomotive.
Two nights before leaving with the train, I dreamed that the engine and
train ran through the shallow cut, and came out on the top of a stone bridge
very high, ran across the bridge and turned over down the bank some
seventy feet into the river. I was stopping with a very intelligent Christian
family, and I told my dream to the lady of the house. She appeared to be
very deeply interested in it, and told me I was going to get killed. I told
her I had an assurance in my dream that I would not get hurt, that I
had great faith in. She tried to persuade me not to go out at all with
the train, but I did not heed her warning, and when the time came
to go out with the train, I went. When we had got about fourteen miles
out, and were running pretty fast down grade through a shallow cut,
I all at once saw a large number of men on the track which the engineer
could not see, as he was near-sighted, but I told him to stop as soon as
possible, but we soon got so near as to see that the men had taken up
564 F. W. H. Myers.
the track and rolled out the large timbers that lay from the stone bridge
off on the high embankment, making a kind of ditch over two feet deep and
fifty feet long. But, as it happened, they had got but one of the timbers
out on one side which made it still worse for turning over the engine.
The engineer set about stopping the train with all his might, but to no
purpose, as the track was wet, and he soon jumped off and left the engine.
I thought it could be stopped and saved, and I stayed on and reversed the
engine, and put on all the steam and whistle brakes. By this time I was on
the bridge, and no chance to get off. I failed to stop the engine, and it ran
into the place dug out, just off the end of the bridge, and turned over on
the heavy wall laid up to keep the embankment from washing away. As it
was a long way down, it had to make two complete turns to reach the
bottom. The first time it went over, it blew off the top of the boiler, with
a tremendous explosion. As the wall was as steep as a Gothic roof, I had
more than I could do to keep my feet in going down through with the engine,
tender, and wood jack screws, pinch bars, and tools, all after me, and
almost on me. The bottom of the river was a solid rock with six inches of
water on it. I got through with but one small scratch.
I went up and measured the bridge, and found it two hundred feet long,
with five arches in it, made of cut stone, and fifty-four feet perpendicular,
and seventy feet on the slope, where the engine rolled down.
As soon as I got up out of the river, I looked back, and saw my dream,
just as it looked to me when I was dreaming.
Not being familiar with the road, I could not locate any such a place,
but when I came to try the realities of it, I saw the place just as I dreamed
it, and every part of this dream came true, just as I saw it.
I went back to my boarding place the same evening, and told the land
lady that the locomotive had turned over into the river, and was nearly
destroyed, but that I was all right.
This was my first dream of this kind, which was afterwards repeated four
times more in different places and circumstances, and came out just the same;
so that I had a knowledge of two days ahead of just what was going to
happen each time, by some mysterious agency or guardian spirit. It is my
candid belief that this guardian continued with me day and night as long as
I ran a locomotive, always directing me in the right, where it would have
been possible for me to have done wrong; and where others did wrong and I
would suffer by it, I escaped in every instance. In this case, if the flagman
had put out his flag before taking up the track, all would have been well.
6. I give this narrative of my life from an actual occurrence, to show that
there is in many cases an unseen agency governing the mind, actions,
and labours of some, to their own great advantage, and safety of others.
I was running an engine on a fast night train ; I had been running the
same train about five years ; at one point on the road there was an outer
switch that we passed after whistling for the station at full speed. I don't
remember in all that time of slowing up the train in the least, for it, this
siding, was used for broken cars and stock cars out of season for using them,
and usually had from fifteen to thirty cars on it ; at the time I relate, it had
twenty-six cars on it. We usually passed it at a speed of fifty miles an hour,
and sometimes more than that, although we always stopped at the station,
The Subliminal Self. 565
which was a half mile further on. I never felt any fear as to its safety, but
one night, leaving home, the thought came to my mind that that switch was
wrong, but I tried to put it off and not think of it, but it disturbed me
considerable.
When the train came for me to take, it was fifty minutes late, and no
time to lose for anything along the road. I started, willing to make up all
the time I could over my part of the route. But this switch bore heavily on
my mind as being wrong, and the nearer I got to it, the stronger the
impression, till at last I made up my mind that it would not break up the
f R. R. Co. to stop and see. I whistled for the station and put on the breaks,
and stopped the train and as the head light gave a good light for some yards
ahead, I could distinctly see the switch wrong ; I got off and went ahead to
change it and found it locked. Just then the conductor had got off the train,
and wanted to know what I had stopped there for ; I told him I thought I
would shut up that switch before I ran over it. He says, "How did you
know it was wrong ? " I said I did not know it, but have had it on my mind
all night so far that it was wrong, and thought I would stop and see, to
satisfy my curiosity. He said, " You have done a good thing—saved your
life and all the rest of us, besides the engine and train."
Now this circumstance has given me great satisfaction to look back to
and see how wonderfully my mind was wrought upon by some unseen
agency that would not let me shake off the impression, but kept enforcing
it more and more. From this may we not make up our minds that we are
^many times saved from a dreadful fate or accident ? Such has been my
experience many, very many times.
7. In September, 1859, being an engineer running a fast train on a through
western road, and being at the west end of my route on Saturday night,
September 3rd, where I arrived about twelve at night ; on retiring I had a
very interesting dream, and as I had had two before of the same kind at
different places which came true to the letter, it made this all the more
interesting to me. I dreamed that 1 was running this fast train going west,
and that it was nearly an hour late, and I was trying to make up all the
time I could, and just as I was about half way between two stations,
which were eight miles apart and on the smoothest track on the whole road,
the engine ran off on the north side of the track, and turned over in the
night, and when it stopped I was sitting on one of the driving wheels with
my feet down between the spokes, and in the darkness a person of medium
'- stature, dressed in white, came down from heaven, a little from a south-east
direction, not straight down, with a span of white horses and a black
carriage, and took me off the driving wheel of the locomotive as it lay
on its side, and put me in the carriage, and went up a little south-
easternly from straight up ; this was the end of the dream ; but I awakened
and it worked my mind very much, so that I slept but little more that
night, and during the Sabbath my mind was wonderfully worked upon to
know what this meant ; for I had faith to believe it would come to pass.
I told no one, but it worried me very much. On Monday morning,
September 5th, I took the fast express back to the other end of my route
where I lived, and where I arrived about 1 p.m. At 9.40 my time came
to go west again at night. The train was fifty-four minutes late. As usual
566 F. W. H. Myers.
the conductor said, "Make up all you can," which was equivalent to
saying, " run as fast as you dare ride. " I left with all speed, and had not
told my wife or family of my dream. When about forty miles out, and
making about as fast time as I ever ran, which was some more than a
mile a minute, and just at the place of running off in my dream, the engine
struck a horse which went under and threw off the forward trucks, which
very soon resulted in turning over the engine in the very place I had
dreamed. Its speed was so great, and on level ground, that it slid over
fifty feet after it lay on its side. It being one of the darkest nights 1 ever
saw, about 11 p.m., it was impossible to do anything. However, I reversed %
the engine the moment it left the track, but did not shut off steam. It
turned over, and when it fetched up and stopped, I found myself sitting on
the driving wheel, with my feet down through between the spokes, with my
under jaw broken, and three ribs on my left side, and quite a deep gash
cut on both sides of my face, with the throttle lever broken off eighteen
inches long, and in my hand, which I had not let goof all the time. But the
person dressed in white with a shining countenance beaming with intelli
gence, I did not see, nor the white horses and black carriage.
It was telegraphed to my wife that I was killed, but she would not
believe it.
I got home the next day at five o'clock in the evening, fully believing
there was something in some dreams.
Now it seems more of a mystery to me that this dream should come true
to the letter till it came down to the very point where I should see the man y
in white, with carriage and horses, and have that part left out, than it does
to have the other part come as dreamed.
My mind was so much disturbed by my dream at one time Monday,
that I made up my mind not to go out that night, but let some one else try
it ; but I had no sooner got my mind made up than it was changed by some
unseen agency, and an assurance given that I had not the least doubt in
that I should not be killed or very badly hurt. The all absorbing thought
came to my mind that all I needed was faith unwavering, and it came to my
mind in great strength. I used to at all times, when starting out with my
engine, commit my life and all into the hands of Him who doeth all things
well, nothing doubting, and He never failed me in the greatest hour of need
and accident many times.
8. Being once placed in such a position that I would have been cut in
two by a passing train, I will relate how wonderfully I was saved. It
was in this way : I was running an express train as engineer, and it was
customary to do a considerable switching of freight cars at each end of the
route. As I was at the west end of my run, and had been switching cars
till the express was nearly due, and the local freight was just coming in
then from the way the express was due, I had a few moments of time,
and was packing one of the pumps on the locomotive. I was not quite done
when I ran down the track a little to tell the conductor, who was on the
passenger coach of the freight train, that I wanted to get by him when he
backed in on the cross-over track, as it was called, and he said he would let
me by with my engine. I then asked him what passenger car he had on
behind which was just next to the one I stood on. He said it was a six
The Subliminal Self. 567
foot gauge car on our tracks of four foot ten inch gauge. I was going to get
off his car, just where I was packing the pump, and finish it as soon as
possible, and run up and get by his train, as my train was about due then.
As I rode along up to my engine and was about ready to step off at the very
place I wanted to, I looked up and saw about thirty feet high a very
singular looking person clothed in white, with a wonderful bright countenance
beaming with intelligence passing along in the air, just so that if I got off
the car where I intended to I could not see it. I became wonderfully
interested, and rode on about forty feet farther, and it went out of my
' sight in an instant. I got off the train just then which was moving along
some faster than a man could walk, but as soon as I struck the ground,
I saw the situation in an instant. The broad gauge car was passing my
engine then (which had an outside frame) with a clearance of only one and
a half inches, which would have rolled me in and cut me in two without the
least chance to have got away, as I did not see the danger till it was past—
if I had not seen this person passing along up in the air. It was wonderful
with what force this was pointed out to my mind as soon as I got on the
ground, and if I was ever thankful for anything in my life, I was much
more for this, knowing my life had been saved by some mysterious agent in
such a wonderful interesting way.
T told one of my railroad friends about it, and he said it was imagination.
I told him it was a glorious imagination that would save a man's life that
way, but that I thought I would be dishonest with myself and more so with
jay deliverer to attribute it to imagination.
I made a memorandum of it, and said no more about it, feeling it was
wrong to trifle with such glorious preservation of life by the Providence of
God.
This has occurred four times with me, saving my life in my railroad
life, but at no other time was there any one visible, but their influence
was powerful. Let the reader judge for himself the source of this, after
giving me credit of telling the simple truth just as it happened with me.
It has always been a satisfaction to me to think of this escape, and how
nicely it turned out.
My railroading was all done in Ohio and Indiana.
Subliminal inference may have operated in some of these cases ;—
as, for instance, when Mr. Skilton knew that a six-foot gauge car was
on the narrower track.
Not the least remarkable of these incidents is the condition of
ecstacy into which Mr. Skilton describes himself as falling during
vigorous manual exercise. He writes to me that he has never had
any trance save this ;—which he regards as " worth a lifetime of
hardship and toil."
As I have elsewhere said, I incline to believe that ecstesy is the
highest condition into which a spirit still incarnate can pass. The
so-called ecstasy of hysteria I regard as merely an instance of the
imperfect simulations of various psychical states which the disinte
grated personality of the hysteric readily affords. True ecstasy I
568 F. W. U. Myers.
regard as a condition where the centre of consciousness changes from
the supraliminal to the subliminal self, and realises the transcendental
environment in place of the material. The reminiscence of such a
momentary enlightenment I regard as inevitably confused and coloured
by pre-existing supraliminal notions. I no more accept Mr. Skilton's
picture of the unseen world as exact than I accept Swedenborg's ;
but I incline to believe that both alike were in truth exalted
into an " interior condition " where their perception of the Cosmos,
though less distinct and intelligible, was wider and profounder than
our own.
In my next case it seems impossible even to suggest any finite mind
as the source of intelligence.
P. 144. Dream.
Received through the Rev. 0. H. Cope, from Miss I. Young. The
account was written in the early part of 1892.
British Institute, 26, Rue de Vienne, Brussels.
In the morning of Friday, March 29th, 1889, after being awakened at my
usual hour for rising, I went to sleep again, and dreamt the following :— I
was staying with & friend, Mrs. O , and it was by the sea-side; the house
overlooked the sea, the waves nearly washing against the garden walI. Iti
was a bright clear day and I was standing close to the wall, watching in the
distance two vessels on the sea, one having left the place I was at, and the
other advancing from the opposite shore. To my surprise I saw that neither
vessel, as they neared each other, seemed to make room for the other, and
then to my horror one dashed into the other, cutting her in half. I saw the
boiler burst of the injured vessel, throw up fragments and thick black smoke;
I saw the passengers hurled into the water making frantic attempts to save
themselves. I especially noticed hats and other things floating on the water,
and then suddenly two bodies were washed up at my feet, and I awoke and
found it was nearly 8.30 a.m. The dream made a vivid impression on me,
and I could not shake off the feeling of horror I had experienced all through
it. That saute afternoon news came from Ostend of a terrible catastrophe
in the Channel, the two vessels, Princesses Henriette and Josephine,
crossing via Ostend and Dover, had come into collision that same morning )
at 10 a.m.,1 the one had cut the other in half just as I had seen it in my
dream ; indeed, the circumstances were the same. I knew no one on board,
but the lady with whom, in my dream, I was staying, had three relatives on
board ; one was drowned and the other two saved. Isarella Young.
The friend with whom Miss Young was staying at the time, Mrs. C. E.
Jenkins, writes :—
I certify that the above-mentioned dream was related to me about an
hour after she had dreamt it, by Miss Young. jj q• Jenkins.
1 Really later in the day, as steamers cross about midday.—C. H. Cope.
The Subliminal Self. 56!)
In answer to a further question, Mrs. Jenkins writes :—
British Institute, 25, Rue de Vienne, Brussels,
May 3rd, 1892.
Dear Sir,—In answer to your card to Mr. Cope, forwarded to me this
morning, I beg to confirm that Miss I. G. Young related her dream to me
about the collision before we had heard anything of it, and that the news
came that afternoon. Meliora G. Jenkins.
(Hon. Lady Superintendent,
British Institute, Brussels.)
We give below some account of the events, as related in the Times.
From the Times, March 30th, 1889 (Saturday) :—
"A Channel Packet Missing.
" Up to 12 o'clock last night the mail and passenger steamer which left
Ostend for Dover at 10 o'clock yesterday morning, had not arrived. The
vessel (the Comtesse de Flandre) was due at Dover at 2.30. There was a
slight fog close in shore, but the Calais boat, which arrived last evening,
reported that it was tolerably clear out in the Channel. Great anxiety was
felt at Dover last night as to the steamer's safety, and signal guns were fired
at given intervals."
In the second edition of the Times, same date as above, the following
appears :—
" Foundering of an Ostend Mail Steamer (from Lloyd's).
" Lloyd's agent at Ostend telegraphs, under date to-day, 7.30 a.m., that
the mail boats the Princess Henriette, from Dover, and the Comtesse de
Flandre, from Ostend, were in collision yesterday. The Comtesse de
Flandre sank, and 11 of the crew, including captain and mate, and three
passengers, were drowned. Mails lost.
"The Comtesse de Flandre was a steamer of 500 tons gross, and left
Ostend yesterday morning with mails and passengers for England."
In the Times, Monday, April 1st, 1889, a fuller account appears, with
names of victims, narratives of survivors, &c. Mr. Algernon Osborn, one
of the saved, gives the time of the collision as half-past one. The Times
account is as follows :—
"Loss of a Mail Steamer.
" A collision of a terrible character occurred in the English Channel on
, Friday afternoon between two of the regular steamers plying between Dover
and Ostend. As was announced in the Times on Saturday morning, great
anxiety was felt at Dover on Friday night when the packet, the Comtesse de
Flandre, failed to arrive at her appointed time. The packet started from
Ostend at a quarter past 10 on Friday morning for Dover, with 20 passengers
and 7 bags of mails. At mid-day the Princess Henriette, a larger and faster
boat than the Comtesse de Flandre, left Dover for Ostend with 15 passengers
on board. The weather was thick at the time, but not so dense as to render
navigation very difficult had all possible precautions been taken. At about a
quarter to 2 in the afternoon, the officers of the Comtesse de Flandre saw the
Princess Henriette looming through the mist, and before any effort could be
made to avert the impending disaster, the Princess Henriette crashed into
570 F. W. H. Myers.
the Comtcsse de Flandre's port sponson, cutting clean through the paddle-
box into the engine-room. The fore part of the vessel broke right away and
sank, tho boilers exploding directly after the collision. The whole affair was
so terribly sudden that passengers and crew alike were struggling in the
water before they had realised fully what had occurred "
The account proceeds to describe the steps taken by the Princess
Henriette to save life by lowering boats. Four passengers, the captain, the
mate, five stokers, three engineers, and one sailor, comprise the list of
missing.
I
In the next case the time-relation of the vision to the actual facts
is not quite clear ; but there is distinct premonition as to the meeting
with the shipwrecked crew.
L. 943.
The following dream, which evidently made a great impression on the
dreamer, shows a sufficient amount of correspondence with actual fact both
in the time at which it occurred and in detail (black man, schooner in distress)
to suggest that it was in some way caused by these facts—and it adds interest
to it that it led to the rescue of the distressed men. It is not quite clear how-
much of Captain Scott's narrative was taken from contemporary notes, and
probably no further evidence could be obtained as to this now.
Document I. —From Bishop Hale. \
The colony of Western Australia (called at the time the Swan River
Settlement) was founded in 1829. Captain Scott must have gone there very
shortly after that period.
In the year 1848, I being then Archdeacon of Adelaide, went to Western
Australia in attendance upon the Bishop of Adelaide. Captain Scott showed
great readiness to assist the Bishop, and both he and I received from him
many acts of kindness.
He, one day, told me about his dreams and the circumstances connected
therewith. He told it all with such animation and such varying expressions
of face that he gave one the idea that the things he spoke of were passing
vividly before his mind's eye as he described them.
1 was, of course, greatly struck by the narrative and said I should like
very much indeed to have it in writing. He said at once that I should have J
it ; he would have the copy of his log, which he had by him, transcribed for
me. I received the M.S. a few days afterwards.
His last illness was a long and wearisome one, and the old man was
pleased when any friend would look in and sit with him for a time. I was
then Bishop of the Diocese, and I was aware that the clergyman of his parish
(Fremantle), Mr. Bostock, was in the habit of sometimes taking his seat by
the old man's bedside, in addition to the performance of the usual devotional
services.
I never had upon my own mind the slightest doubt about the truth of the
narrative, but I was quite aware that some persons to whom I might chance
to show it might feel doubtful about it, and it occurred to me that Mr.
The Subliminal Self. 571
Bostock's friendly visits to the old man afforded an excellent opportunity for
getting some declaration such as that which he did obtain.
March 9lh, 1892. Mathew B. Hale (Bishop).
Document II. —Captain Scott's Account.
"June 10th, 1825.
"On the night of the 7th of June I dreamed that I saw a schooner, and
apparently water-logged, with several men in her and a black man among
them. On the eighth I dreamed the same and got up and started the mate up
: aloft. I stayed on deck until daylight. On the 9th the same dream occurred.
-Got up and altered the ship's course, having passed between Guadeloupe and
Antigua, the day previous, and at 8 p.m. heavy squalls with heavy thunder
and lightning ; shortened sail. Daylight made all sail, fine pleasant weather.
On the 10th, at 8 o'clock, altered the ship's course from W.S. \V. to S. W. two
points for the purpose of ascertaining the true position of the Bird Islands,
or to see if these really existed (as on my chart it was marked doubtful).
I was at this time very uneasy in my mind, supposing that something was
going to happen to my ship. I had related my dream to my mate and
passengers, Don Joseph Sevarra, John Poingestre and Wm. Richenburg,
Esqrs., merchants at Carthagena, who wrote the circumstances to the
Humane Society and to their house in London.
"On the morning of the 10th, at 9.3 a.m., we were all at breakfast, the
officer on deck called down the skylight and said that a squall was coming. I
immediately repaired on deck to take in the small sails. On looking astern
^the ship where the squall was coming from, we saw a boat with a large flag
flying on an oar, and a man standing up in the bow holding it. I immediately
hove the ship to and took in all studding and small sails. My men that were
aloft furling royals said that they could see a number of men and that they
thought it was a pirate. One of the men stated that was just the way that
he was taken the year previous in the same seas. My passengers and officers
then requested me to keep the ship away, which I did, they stating that if
they should turn out to be pirates, I should not recover my insurance for my
ship. I then kept her away under her reef'd sails and went down to
breakfast. After my entering my cabin, I felt very uneasy and returned to
the state room. Immediately my dream came forcibly in my mind. I then
put two pistols and my cutlass by my side and went on deck, called all hands i
on deck, and again hove the ship to and desired Mr. Poingestre to take the
wheel and steer the ship. I then ordered the first officer to lower his boat
down and go and see what the boat was. I then ordered the guns to be
loaded, made sail, and made a tack towards the boats. On my coming up
with them, found that my mate had taken the captain and his men out of the
boat and taken them into his, Captain Jellard's boat having a great quantity
of water in, very nearly up to the thwarts, also a large shark, and had her
in tow.
"After getting Captain Jellard on board, and his men, who were in a
very weak state, not able to speak with the exception of the black man ; from
him I got all the particulars, as follows : it appeared that they belonged to
the schooner James Hambleton, of Grenada, from America, bound to Grenada,
and being short of water, having a very long passage through light winds,
were going on shore for water on the Island of Saints, it then being calm.
572 F. W. H. Myers.
Alter leaving their ship a light breeze sprang up and the schooner kept her
ground, but the boat pulling in a different direction and the current running
so strong that the boat's crew became quite exhausted. That at daylight
they had the mortification of seeing the schooner inshore of them as far as
they could see from the boat, the boat still drifting further from land and
ship until they lost sight of her altogether. The following day they had a
very dreadful time of it ; it blew a heavy gale, with thunder and lightning ;
they had to make fast the oars, mast and sail to the painter of the boat, and
let the boat drift to break off the sea that was running. During all this time
they had no water or anything to eat. The following day was nearly calm,
very light winds and a hot scorching sun ; being in the latitude of 16o 21',
longitude 63o 14', their sufferings were very great all day. Both captain and
men tore their clothes off their backs and poured water on themselves to
keep them cool. On the morning that I discovered them the black man
appealed to his God, saying, ' If God hear black man as well as white man,
pray send me fish or shark for massa to eat, no let him die. ' The all-merciful
Father heard his prayers and sent him a large shark, which was lying in the
boat on her being brought alongside, of which they had drunk the blood and
eaten part of the flesh. I immediately knocked in the head of a water
puncheon and made them a warm bath and put them severally into it for the
purpose of cooling them and getting some parts of their shirts off their skin
which were sticking to their backs, their skin being all blistered with the sun
and salt water. I gave them a little tea to moisten their mouths every few
minutes, until some of them prayed for food and asked for some biscuit, and
gave them rice water and barley water occasionally. After a good sleep
Captain Jellard sent for me below and wished to speak to me. On searching;
his pockets to see if the black man had told the truth about his ship, I found
his register and manifest of his cargo. This satisfied me all was correct, and
that they were not pirates. During our conversation I fyund that I had
been in company with Captain Jellard in St. John's, Newfoundland, in the
year 1814, he then commanding a fine schooner called the Catch Me Who Can,
belonging to Spuryar and Co. , of Cool.
"In a few days they all came round. I gave them up to the British
Consul at Carthagena and requested him to lose no time to send them on, as
we feared that something would be brought against the mate of the schooner,
Captain Jellard having all his papers with him. On my arrival in England,
I found that Captain Jellard only arrived there three days previous to the
execution of his mate and remaining three men, they having been tried for
murdering their captain and the other three men. Had not the Consul sent
them over in the packet to Jamaica and requested the admiral to send them
up to Grenada with all dispatch, these four poor souls would have lost then-
lives innocently. [Signed] "Daniel Scott,
" Commanding the Brig Ocean from [illegible] bound to Carthagena.
"I, George James Bostock, Chaplin of Freemantle, W. Australia, do
hereby certify that I attended Daniel Scott in his last illness, February, 1865,
wherein he repeated the substance of the above as most solemnly true, and
ascribed the whole event to the direct guidance of an over-ruling Providence.
[Signed] "George J. Bostock,
"9/5/1865."
The Subliminal Self. 573
We have endeavoured to trace the log-book referred to in Bishop Hale's
letter, but without success. Inquiries have been made through Lloyd's
Shipping Agency and the Board of Trade, but no log dated as far back
as 1825 can be produced—it was not till 1854 that trading vessels were
compelled to render official log-books.
My next narrative is from Dr. Wiltse, personally known to
Dr. Hodgson and myself as a careful and conscientious witness.
P. 151.
A case of probable primary independent clairvoyance, by Dr. A. S. Wiltse,
Skiddy, Kansas.
If such a phase of clairvoyance can- be found as, independent of
conscious or unconscious suggestion, attains to a knowledge of the unknown,
and this without the aid of a second person as the operator, who induces or
produces the hypnotic condition, I term this primary independent clairvoy
ance, but if to attain to the knowledge of the unknown, the aid of a second
person is required as hypnotiser, then it would be secondary independent
clairvoyance.
With this explanation of my terms, I respectfully submit my nomen
clature to the judgment of your learned society, and proceed to recite for
the benefit of the society the following case of my own experience, the truth
of the main facts in which can, I think, be substantiated by the gentleman to
whom the scenes were described in detail at the moment of their appearance
%ad who, I think, is still living. Much circumstantial evidence, strongly
corroborative in its nature, may also be obtained, I think, by addressing
any of the parties herein named, although I do not recollect ever talking
with them upon the subject, except the last named :—
Mr. Maniphee Haun, Kismet, Morgan Co., Tenn.
Mr. W. T. Howard, Kismet.
Mr. Jas. Bales, Wartburg.
Mr. W. Todd, Wartburg.
The last named is the gentleman to whom I described the scenes as they
were presented to me ; while the first named is the gentleman who was
present when the tragedy happened, and would of course be likely to
recollect a large share of the minutie of the affair. The testimony therefore of
the two gentlemen is indispensable and should be obtained at once, but I
. prefer that the society shall obtain this evidence independently of me, as
thus avoiding any possible appearance of tinkering by me, although I shall
be very willing to render any assistance in the matter that I may be able.
A Vision by Means op Pictures.
This incident occurred in Morgan Co., Tennessee, I think in the spring
of 1878. Mrs. Wiltse and myself had spent the day with her mother and
step-father, Mr. and Mrs. Todd. I had passed most of the day with Mr.
Todd in the field where he was planting corn. We retired early and Mrs.
Wiltse almost immediately fell asleep.
Mr. Todd and myself being wakeful, lay and talked. There was but
one room, in which there was an open fireplace containing fire mostly buried
2 a
574 F. W. H. Myers.
up with ashes, a large pine knot having been laid on top of these embers, and
so nearly buried in ashes as to give about a one candle power of light.
The following diagram will give a correct idea of the arrangement of
the room, beds, etc :—
X. Bed
Bed X. W.
Todd's
B.
Door Door
E.
Fireplace
X. Represents the heads of the beds.
B. The bed occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Todd.
W. The bed occupied by myself and Mrs. Wiltse, and
E. The open fireplace. There wereseveral feet of space between the two beds.
While we were talking, I saw a picture slide on to the wall at my feet,
at such a height as to rest easily in the line of my vision. I called to Mr.
and Mrs. Todd to cease talking and told them what I saw. The picture was
some feet in size each way and remained before me long enough for me to
describe [it] in detail to them. It was a landscape, the main features in which
were a river with a large creek emptying into it very nearly at right
angles. When I had given a full description, the picture disappeared with
a quick movement like that with which it had appeared, but in the opposite
direction from which it came. Mr. Todd said "You have described
Emerald River and Rock Creek where it empties into it,"—which I thought
correct, as I was familiar with the two streams.
While we were talking, another picture slid on to the wall in the same
manner as the first one. It was the same picture as the first with the
addition of several open fields and wooded lands along the banks. In one
of the fields was a log house with its surroundings which I did not recognise.
The picture remained stationary until I had described it thoroughly, when
it disappeared similarly to the first.
Both Todd and his wife said I had described the "Cass Davis house"
which was about a mile distant, across the river. At this another picture
slid on to the wall, the very counterpart of the second one, except that a good
portion of the landscape was left out, but the house was there, the door of
which was closed, and as I announced its appearance, I heard the muffled
report of a gun on the inside of the house, and immediately afterwards,
the door flew open and a man rushed out seemingly in a great fright.
At this point Todd said, "See here, Doc., are you seeing these things, or
just playing off a drive on us?" I assured him that I actually saw,
The Subliminal Self. 575
or seemed to see, the things I described, although they did not seem
possessed of solidity, but were more as if one should breathe over a looking-
glass, then stand at some distance from it and observe his image ; it would
look shadowy and dim.
In the meantime the door of the house in the picture had been left open
so that I could see into the house, where I saw a man staggering toward
the door with blood running from his mouth. He reached the door, where
he supported himself by leaning against the door-facing, and steadied himself
off the door-step on to the ground. In so doing, he left the print of his
hand in blood upon the door-facing.
At this point the picture again disappeared and was immediately re
placed by another much the same as the other, but in it the dead body
of the man was lying on the ground some few feet from the door, while
from the field advanced several people, with hoes and mattocks in their hands,
who gathered round the body in apparent excitement and consternation,
when the picture vanished and I saw nothing more.
I asked Todd if he was sure of the house ; he assured me that it bore
the exact description I had given. I asked if there was any rumour, or ever
had been to his knowledge, of a tragedy having occurred there. " Not that
he had ever heard of." I believe I said that "something of the kind has
occurred there or else will. If it is past we may never know it ; if it is to
come, we may see."
When the corn which Todd had planted that day was ready for hoeing, I
j was with him again in the field a portion of a day, and together we left the
field and started to go to Wartburg, the county seat about two miles distant.
On the way we met Cam Davis, a quadroon, who asked us if we had heard of
Henderson Whittaker killing himself. We had not, and he told us that
during the (forenoon I think) Whittaker went into the house, where Mr.
Haun was sitting alone and asked Haun to loan him his rifle to go hunting.
Haun pointed to the corner where the rifle stood, saying, " I don't know
whether it is loaded or not. " Whittaker put his mouth over the muzzle to blow
into the gun, pushing back the hammer with his foot. The foot slipped offand
the gun was discharged into his mouth. Haun ran out into the field for help.
The hands came up and I think found the young man dead in the yard. I
have also been told that the hand print of blood was left upon the door-
facing, but these lesser points can be learned best from parties who lived in
the neighbourhood at the time. The main points are absolutely certain. The
tragedy occurred in the house I had described, and was of substantially
the nature I had described from the picture-writing on the wall.
[Answers to Questions sent to Mr. William Todd, January 15th, 1891.]
(Be Dr. Wiltse's Vision.)
Q. 1. Did Dr. Wiltse describe to you picture appearances which he
said he was seeing at the time 1
A. 1. "Yes."
Q. 2. Did he describe particulars of what he was seeing, such as the print
of a bloody hand upon the door-facing of the Cass Davis house ; the sound
of a gun inside ; one man running out in apparent fright and the other
staggering out of the doorway and dying upon the ground near the door ?
2 s 2
576 F. W. H. Myers.
A. 2. " He did describe the place and asked me if I knew of such a
place ; I told him that it was the Cass Davis house."
Q. 3. Do you recollect if he told you he believed something of such
nature had happened in the Cass Davis house, or else would in the future 1
A. 3. " He told me that something had happened at that place, or
would in the future."
Q. 4. Did the future events in that house, in the matter of the death of
H. Whittaker, lead you to conclude that Dr. Wiltse really saw that night
what he told you he was seeing ?
A. 4. "It did as to H. Whittaker, and I do believe he saw what he
said he saw." Wm Tgddi January 26th, 1891.
Mr. M. Haun writes as follows to Dr. Hodgson :—
Kismet, Tenn., March 2nd, 1891.
Tour request received, and will say in reply, 1st, that I remember Dr.
A. S. Wiltse having told me of his "prophetic vision," but whether it was
before or after the fulfilment I can't say. However, the facts were about as
follows : The young man shot himself in the mouth while attempting to blow
in the gun ; ball passed out through the back of his neck just in the edge
of his hair, rupturing some large vein or artery. He fell instantly and was
unable to utter a word intelligibly. He raised himself up on his hands with
his head drooping over, and from his mouth the blood ran profusely, making
a large pool of blood upon the floor. I ran about forty rods from the house
to call the nearest help, and on returning found the young man lying full
length, flat on his face, dead, his hat lying on the doorstep ; the print of his
hand made on door-casing ; it seemed that he had crawled out upon his
hands and knees.
Now the hand-print on the door ; the blood-stained hat on the doorsteps ;
the kind of house and its location ; the season of the year when the accident
occurred, correspond with the Dr.'s vision, if I remember correctly.
The tragedy occurred, I think, in the month of July, not far from the
18th. As to when the Dr. had this vision or dream I don't remember.
No. I don't remember thinking of his vision at the time, for, as before
stated, I don't remember having heard it before, although I might have
heard ib- Manifhee Haun.
Mr. J. Bales writes to Dr. Hodgson :—
Wartburg, Tenn., March Uth, 1891.
In reply to yours of 2/27, will say that I remember hearing Dr. Wiltse
talk of the occurrence you mentioned in regard to the tragedy which
happened at the Cass Davis Place. He told me of it before it happened, and
when it did occur he came and asked me if I remembered what he had told me
about it before. As to the dates, I can't remember exactly, but it must have
been twelve or fourteen years ago. There was no newspaper published here
at that time, and there was never any publication of it, so far as I am aware.
I do not remember the appearance of a bloody hand on the door or
anywhere else, but there was blood on the house in different places.
Would have answered you sooner, but I wanted to remember correctly
before writing. Dr. A. S. Wiltse considered a truthful and honest man here.
James Bales.
The Subliminal Self. 577
Mr. Howard writes to Dr. Hodgson :—
Kismet, Tenn., March 23rd, 189[1].
Your enquiry of recent date just received, and will say in reply that Dr.
Wiltse told his vision to Mr. William Todd and his wife, my stepfather and
my mother, a short time before the occurrence. I was informed by Mr. Todd
that the details in the case were exactly similar to the Dr.'s vision. My
mother stated the same fact in my hearing, but she is now dead. I under
stand from different parties that the blood print, &c., were exactly as seen in
the vision. Dr. Wiltse was stopping at our house (Mr. Todd's) at the time,
and, after relating his vision, my stepfather recognised the place described
as the "Cass Davis House," where the tragedy afterwards occurred. I
would refer you to Mr. William Todd for further particulars, as he probably
remembers the date ; I do not. ip jjoward
I shall conclude this group with a case where there is again a
suggestion of personal guardianship and care. But the facts prefigured
do not fall within the life-history of the decedent ; so that if we
suppose that it was his spirit which foresaw and informed his niece of
the future, we must suppose also that he foresaw what would happen
to his body after his death. The percipient, whom I have called Lady
Q., has given me orally a slightly fuller account. An unauthorised
version of the main points here to be detailed was compiled shortly
after the event.
P. 189.
I have been asked to give an account of an experience which was certainly
the most remarkable in my life :—a dream which came to me three times
at long intervals, and which was at last fulfilled.
My father died when I was a child ; my mother married again, and I went
to live with an uncle, who became like a father to me. In the spring of 1882
I dreamt that my sister and I were sitting in my uncle's drawing-room. In
my dream it was a brilliant spring day, and from the window we saw quan
tities of flowers in the garden, many more than were in fact to be seen from
that window. But over the garden there lay a thin covering of snow. I knew
in my dream that my uncle had been found dead by the side of a certain
bridle-path about three miles from the house— a field-road where I had often
ridden with him, and along which he often rode when going to fish in a
neighbouring lake. I knew that his horse was standing by him, and that he
was wearing a dark homespun suit of cloth made from the wool of a herd
of black sheep which he kept. I knew that his body was being brought
home in a waggon with two horses, with hay in the bottom, and that we
were waiting for his body to arrive. Then in my dream the waggon came to
the door ; and two men well known to me—one a gardener, the other the
kennel huntsman—helped to carry the body up the stairs, which were rather
narrow. My uncle was a very tall and heavy man, and in my dream I saw the
men carrying him with difficulty, and his left hand hanging down and striking
against the banisters as the men mounted the stairs. This detail gave me in
my dream an unreasonable horror. I could not help painfully thinking, Oh,
why did they not prevent his hand from being bruised in this way 1
578 F. W. H. Myers.
In the sadness and horror of this sight I awoke, and I slept no more that
night. I had determined not to tell my uncle of the dream ; but in the
morning I looked so changed and ill that I could not escape his affectionate
questioning ; and at last 1 told him of my vision of him lying dead in that
field-road. I had no anxiety about his health. He was a robust man of
sixty-six, accustomed to hunt his own pack of hounds and to take much
exercise. He listened to me very kindly, and although he was not himself
at all alarmed by my dream, he offered me to do anything I liked which
might calm my mind. I begged him to promise me never to go alone by
that particular road. He promised me that he would always make an excuse
to have a groom or some one with him ; I remember my compunction at the
thought of giving him this trouble—and yet I could not help asking for
his promise.
The impression of the dream grew gradually fainter, but it did not leave
me ; and I remember that when a little boy came to stay with us some time
after, and boy-like drew his stick along the banisters as he went upstairs,
the sound brought back the horror of my dream. Two years passed by,
and the thought of the dream was becoming less frequent, when I dreamt it
again with all its details the same as before, and again with the same pro
foundly disturbing effect. I told my uncle, and said to him that I felt sure
that he had been neglecting his promise, and riding by that field-road alone.
He admitted that he had occasionally done so, "although," he said, "I
think I have been very good on the whole." He renewed the promise ; and
again the impression grew weaker as four years passed by, during which I
married and left his home. In the May of 1888 I was in London, expects
big my baby. On the night before I was taken ill, I dreamt the same dream
again, but with this variation. Instead of dreaming that I was at my uncle's
home with my sister, I knew in my dream that I was lying in bed in our
London house. But from that bedroom, just as from the drawing-room in
the former dreams, I seemed to see my uncle lying dead in the same well-
known place. And I seemed also to perceive the same scene of the bringing
home of the body. Then came a new point. As I lay in bed, a gentleman
dressed in black, but whose face I could not see, seemed to stand by me and
tell me that my uncle was dead. I woke in great distress. But as I was ill from
then for two days, as soon as the child was born I ceased to dwell on the
dream—only I felt an overpowering desire to write at once to my uncle my
self and to tell him that I was getting better. I was not allowed to do this ;
but afterwards I managed to write a few lines in pencil unknown to any
one but the nurse. This note reached my uncle two days before his death.
As I grew better, I began to wonder greatly at not hearing from my uncle,
who generally wrote to me every day. Then my dream came back to me,
and I was certain that he was ill or dead—but my husband, nurse, and maid
(all I saw) seemed cheerful as usual. Then one morning my husband said
my stop-father wished to see me, and I at once guessed his errand. He
entered the room dressed in black and stood by my bedside. At once I
recognised that this was the figure which I had seen in my dream. I said,
" The Colonel is dead—I know all about it—I have dreamt it often." And
as he was unable to speak from emotion, I told him all about it, place, time
of day (morning), and the clothes my uncle wore.
The Subliminal Self. 579
Then I thought of that scene on the staircase, which had always remained
in my mind. I asked if there were any bruises on the hands. " No bruises,"
said my step-father, " either on hands or face. " Ho thought that I fancied
that my uncle had fallen from his horse. Soon afterwards my sister—the
sister who had been in my dream—came to see me, and brought rue a ring
which my uncle had always worn on his left hand. I was very thankful for
this memento of him ; and I told my sister how I had feared that the ring
would have been forgotten. "I only came just in time," she said ; "they
were just going to close the coffin." " Was there any bruise on the left
hand ? " I asked. At first she said that there was not ; but then she said she
thought there was a bluish discoloration across the back of the first joints of
the fingers. She did not know how it had been caused. When I was well
enough to travel, I went to my old home ; there I saw my old nurse, who had
been in the house when my uncle died. Her account, added to my step
father's, enabled me to realise the events of that day. My uncle had received
my pencil note on the Sunday morning, and had been greatly pleased,
feeling that the wished-for heir was born, and that I, whom he loved as a
daughter, was through my trouble. He had a few friends to lunch with him,
including my step-father, and said that he had seen all that he wished to see
in life, and could now die happy at any moment. His guests left him in [the]
greatest spirits, and two days afterwards he died, and his body had been
brought back as I describe, and he had been found half sitting and half
lyingin that very field-road, where I had three times seen him. He was
dressed in the same homespun suit in which I had seen him in my dream.
= The cause of his death had been heart-disease, of whose existence neither I
nor, I believe, any of those near or dear to him had been aware. He had
evidently felt faint, and slipped from his horse. The same two men whom I
had seen in my dream as helping to carry the body had in fact done so, and
my nurse admitted that the left hand knocked against the banisters. She
seemed afraid lest I should blame the men who carried the body, and did
not like to speak of the incident. I do not think that she had seen the
incident herself ; and I did not like to speak to the men about it. It was
enough for me that it was on the back of the left hand, as I had see it in my
dream and as from the arrangement of the staircase it must have been, had it
been caused in the way that I saw. I will add one fact which, although it
was purely a matter of my own feeling, made perhaps as much impression
upon me as anything in this history. I do not think that any daughter
could love a'father better than I loved my uncle ; and, as will have been
seen, the prospect of his death was always a deeply-lying fear. But as soon
as I knew that all had happened as my dream foretold, I somehow felt that
all was well ; and the death left me with a sensation of complete acquiescence
and peace. It may have been noticed that there were two unreal or fan
tastic points in my original dream :—viz., the multitude of flowers in the
garden, and the thin covering of snow. I think that I can throw some
light on these points by narrating the only two other impressive dreams
which I have ever had. The first of these two dreams I mentioned to
others, and acted upon it. The second I neither mentioned nor acted upon ;
so that it has no value as evidence, and is really given as helping to explain
the symbolism of snow.
580 F. W. H. Myers.
I had heard from several relations (although I cannot quote definite
cases), that they had found that dreams of flowers and of snow were followed
by deaths in our family. This may have suggested that form of symbolism
to my mind ;—or the same cause, whatever it was, which acted with them
may have acted with me. In any case, what happened was as follows. In
1887 I heard from my step-father that my mother, who had long been an
invalid, was seriously worse ; and he asked me when I could go to see her.
My mind was therefore occupied with her illness ; but the tone of his letter
was not immediately alarming ;—so that we saw no reason for my not attend
ing some races in the neighbourhood, for which we had friends staying. But one
night I dreamt a dream—which, though very impressive, was somewhat con
fused—about my mother seated in a carriage full of jlmeers. I remembered
the symbolism ; and I felt assured that my mother was dead or dying. I
mentioned the dream to my husband and prepared for an immediate summons,
which came directly afterwards. Having all preparations already made, I
left immediately and arrived in time to see my mother die. This dream and
that of my uncle are the only dreams on which 1 ever acted in any way. The
second dream to which I have alluded was as follows :—In 18— I saw a
gentleman whom I knew lyiug dead in a red coat on an open field with snow
on the ground. Beside him knelt his mother,—who was alive and well at the
time of the dream. I tried to approach and speak to her ; but she said,
" Don't touch me, I have come for him." I understood that she had died
before him. Two years later this lady did in fact die, and in two years more
her son was killed, just as I saw him lying, in a scarlet coat. There was, of
course, no snow on the ground, as it was in late spring ; so I fancy that the
snow may have been symbolical both here and in my dream about my uncle.
I may add that I am not of an imaginative temperament ; and that these are
the only incidents in my life which seem to lie outside ordinary explanations.
My husband and step-father add their confirmation of the incidents which
concern them.
The above account is true and accurate in every particular.
December 22nd, 1892. [Signatures of Lord and Lady Q.]
[Lord Q.'s signature attests (besides his general concurrence with the
account) his presence at the interview with Lady Q.'s step-father, as
described.]
The account is correct so far as what happened when I went to London
to inform Lady Q of her uncle's death, which is all that is within my
own personal knowledge.
January 16th, 1893. [Signature of Lady Q.'s step-father.]
We have few well-attested cases where any event subsequent to
his own death has been intimated to any percipient. Here is one with
fair attestation.
P. 153.
Louise Chandler Moulton in the Arena, 1892.
In the Cosmopolitan Magazine for November, an article of my own was
published, entitled "Five Friends—The Story of an Extinct Household."
The Subliminal Self. 581
It was a sketch of the last sad years of Dr. Westland Marston and his chil
dren ; and it contained the account of a very singular spiritualistic prophecy
as to the succession of deaths by which this household became extinct—a
prophecy often repeated to me while all the persons mentioned in it were
still alive and well. This remarkable instance of what seems like spirit
foreknowledge made a wide impression, if I am to judge by the numerous
letters I received on the subject from all parts of the United States and from
England. Among these letters was one in itself so astonishing that I wrote
to its author for permission to publish it. Here is the letter :—
64, John Street, Providence, December 5th, 1891.
Mrs. Louise Chandler Moulton.
Dear Madam,—I have just read your article "Five Friends," and the
singular fulfilment of the prophecy regarding the death of the Marstons re
calls a similar prophecy in my own experience, and its fulfilment, which may
interest you.
I was the medical adviser of the family of Hiram Maxfield, a hotel keeper
and caterer, widely known throughout New England. They were a very
healthy family, seldom ill, any of them, except with some minor ailment.
One day I was called to see Mrs. Maxfield at their home, a few miles down
the bay. While waiting for the return boat, the eldest daughter, a young
lady of about 20, came out upon the porch, where I was standing, and said
that she wanted to tell me something, but it appeared so foolish to her that
she wanted me to say nothing about it to the family. She said that she had
heard a voice say, distinctly : "You will die first, then Harry, then father."
She was alone at the time, and thought that some one must have spoken to
her from an adjoining room. She went to the door, looked in, saw no one,
and soon heard the words repeated with the addition, " And Dr. Anthony
will be present in each case."
All three of the persons mentioned in this prophecy were then appar
ently in perfect health. About two years after—the young lady having
married in the meantime—I was called in to see her. She had been stricken
with apoplexy, and died in a few minutes after my arrival. The son, Harry,
about this time developed symptoms of consumption ; and with him the end
came in about six months. He had been away in another climate, under
the care of a physician, but as he was failing rapidly, was brought home. I
was sent for and arrived just before he breathed his last.
About a year after this, the father of the family contracted a cold on a
fishing trip to New Hampshire, which resulted in his death soon after his
return. I was sent for, as usual, and only failed to be present at the moment
of his death because I stepped out for an instant to send a telephone mes
sage, and he had breathed his last just before my return. Thus was the pro
phecy fulfilled. I must add that neither the family nor myself had any
belief in spiritualism.—Respectfully yours, -yy g. Anthony M.D.
In the case of the Marstons the prophecy, purporting to come from the
spirit of Mrs. Marston, and to be addressed to the eldest daughter of the
household, was : " You will die first, then Nelly, then Philip, and last of all
your father ; " and it was literally fulfilled, as was the one related by Dr.
Anthony concerning the Maxfields.
582 F. W. H. Myers.
Asked as regards the date of this incident, Dr. Anthony writes :—
64, John Street, Providence, May 6th, 1892.
Richard Hodgson, Esq., —Dear Sir,—I have found the account books
of which I wrote, and the only visit which I find was made to Mrs. M.
previous to the daughter's death, was April 22nd, 1877. So I can fix upon
that date definitely, as the date of the prophecy. Her daughter died
November 9th, 1879. Harry died June 29th, 1881, and Mr. Maxfield died
July 2nd, 1884. After the death of the daughter, either the same day, or
soon after, I told the prophecy to the lady who is now my wife.
W. E. Anthony, M.D.
May 6th, 1893.
Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I have a distinct recollection that the
Doctor told me of the singular fulfilment of the prophecy of the death of the
lady mentioned, soon after it occurred. I think it was on the evening of the
same day, that she died. If the date of the death was Sunday, then I am
quite certain as to time, as I seldom saw him on other evenings.
Marie L. Anthony.
[The date of the death, November 9th, 1879, was in fact a Sunday.]
In the next case also the speaker points to events in which he will
no longer share.
P. 216. Soldier's prophecy.
[This case was received through the kindness of Mr. Ropes, of Boston,
well known as an authority on the American Civil War.]
John R. Davis.
Cincinnati, Ohio, August 26th, 1893.
My Dear Mr. Ropes,—Enclosed the story of the soldier's prophecy. I
sent copy to Captain Ball, to know if it corresponds with his recollection.
As I remember Davis, he was barely able to read and write. From the
regimental descriptive book which I have, I take the following :—
" John R. Davis enlisted October 9th, '61. Age, 44 ; occupation, labourer;
born in South Wales. Height, five feet, seven. Blue eyes, iron gray hair."
The story may be of no value, but it is the only really unaccountable thing
of which I have personal knowledge.—Yours very truly, j£ q dawes
In August, 1863, I was major of the 53rd Ohio Regiment, and in the
absence of the other field officers, was in command. The regiment was then
in the Third Brigade, Fourth Division, 15th Army Corps. It was encamped
at Messenger's Fort on Black river, about sixteen miles east of Vicksburg,
Miss. One morning I went to see the Division Commander, General Hugh
Ewing, on some business. As I started away, he told me that he had just
received notice from General Sherman, then Corps Commander, to take the
division to Natchez. I asked if there was reason why I should not speak of
it. He said there was not, and that the order would probably reach me that
evening.
As I rode into our camp, I noticed in the police detail an old man named
John R. Davis, a private soldier in company E. He appeared to be unwell,
The Subliminal Self. 583
and I told the sergeant to relieve him from duty. Thinking to please him
with advance news, I asked Davis to sit down in front of my tent, and said to
him, " Well, Davis, we are going to Natohez." " Who is going to Natchez ?"
he replied. " The regiment is going,—the whole division is going," said I.
" No," answered Davis, "The division is not going to Natchez; the regi
ment is not going." " How do you know so much ? When did you take com
mand of the army?" I said, perhaps a little impatiently. ,' I do not wish to be
disrespectful," he replied, " but we are not going to Natchez. I can see the
troops marching off the transports at Memphis, and I cannot see any more."
Then, after a pause, he added, "These things come to me in dreams, and
they always come true. " " How do you know they are our troops ? " "lean
see you on the deck pointing." "Where are you?" "Iam not there.'
"Are you going to get a furlough ? " " No, I am going to die."
No amount of questioning could get anything more from him. In the
afternoon 1 went to brigade headquarters. Lieut. E. H. Ball, then A.A.A.G.,
was an officer in the company Davis belonged to. I told him the story, and
asked him to detail Davis for some light duty at brigade headquarters.
Lieut. Ball secured the detail at once, and Davis went there the following
day. The order to go to Natchez was countermanded before it reached the
regiments. Davis died September 5th, immediately after the battle of
Chickamauga. The Corps 15th was ordered to Chattanooga, via Vicksburgand
Memphis. I was still commanding the regiment, and was the last of the corps
to leave Vicksburg, but by good fortune was the first of the division to reach
Memphis. Landing at the city wharf, I started to go off the boat at the head
-xi the regiment. The captain of the boat asked me to come up to the cabin
for some purpose. As I came to the head of the stairway, I saw the Lieutenant
Colonel of the regiment, who had been for some time at home, on the wharf.
I went to the guards, and leaning over the rail, pointed to him and called to
the adjutant to report the regiment to him. There was (and it at once
occurred to me) the literal fulfilment of Davis' prophecy. The Division did
not go to Natchez, Davis was dead, the troops were marching off the trans
ports at Memphis, I was on deck and pointing. E. C. Dawes.
Cincinnati, Ohio, September 25th, 1893.
Dear Mr. Ropes, —Yours, with copy of letter from the Society of
Psychical Research, at hand. Captain Ball was in my office to-day. I
handed him the letter. He remembers Davis as a man of little education,
but intelligent, quick, and nervous in his movements ; and he reminded me
of a notable event in his career, when Davis got very drunk in Memphis,
and defied the guard with an empty pistol. He was fond of liquor, though
seldom under its influence.
In August, 1863, the impression in the army of the Tennessee was that
unless the rebels took the offensive, which we deemed very improbable, we
should remain in camp until September or October, and then go to Selma or
Mobile. As I find time, I will look through my letters home that summer
(most of which I have), and see what I then sent, which will give a clue to
the current opinion. I do not think I wrote home about Davis. My people
knew only three or four persons in our regiment. I went to it a stranger,
and in my letters I seldom speak of any one.—Yours truly,
E. C. Dawes.
584 F. W. H. Myers.
Cincinnati, Ohio, October 3th, 1893.
John Ropes, Esq.,—Dear Mr. Ropes,—After the surrender of Vicks-
burg, and the return to Black river of the forces that under General Sherman
had driven Johnston east of Pearl river, an unusually large number of fur
loughs were granted to officers and men of the army of the Tennessee. This
was accepted as an indication that no movement would be made by the army
during the month of August, at least. The current opinion was that in Sep
tember or October, General Banks would be sent to capture Mobile, and that
the army of the Tennessee would co-operate by moving directly east through
Meridian to Selma. The moral of the army was never better. Officers and men. ^
had implicit confidence in their ability to defeat any Confederate army that
could then be brought to take the field against them. The only suggestion of a
movement north, I remember, was that some troops might be sent to capture
the large amount of railroad equipment known to have been concentrated
at Grenada, Miss., and to remain near Grenada while the rolling stock was
taken to Memphis. In fact, this was attempted by a small force of cavalry,
who destroyed, instead of saving it. E. C. Dawes.
50, State Street, Boston, October ISth, 1893.
Richard Hodgson, Esq.,—Dear Sir,—I enclose you a letter from Col.
E. C. Dawes, dated the 14th inst., and also one from Captain E. H. Ball,
dated the 12th inst.
Captain Ball, you remember, commanded the company in which Davis,
the private soldier who prophesied that the regiment was going to Memphis.,
was. J. C. Ropes. \
48, Laclede Building, St. Louis, Mo., October Uth, 1893.
Dear Mr. Ropes,—Before leaving home Tuesday, I wrote Captain Ball
as suggested in yours of 5th. I reminded him of something that will
serve to refresh his memory. Ball was very anxious to get a furlough in
August, '63, to go to his old home in Haverhill, Mass. His first application
was refused. After Davis was detailed at Brigade headquarters, Ball
annoyed the old man a good deal by trying to get him to foretell whether a
second application would be successful. Davis would always reply that he
did not know anything about it, that these tilings came to him in dreams,
and always came true. I hope to find a letter from Captain Ball at home
to-morrow. E. C. Dawes.
Portsmouth, Ohio, October 12th. 1893.
John C. Ropes, Esq.,—My Dear Sir,—In answer to yours of the 5th, I
have to say that I remember very^well that, some time in August, 1863, Major
E. C. Dawes, then commanding 53rd Ohio Regiment, came to headquarters.
Third Brigade, Fourth Division, 15th Army Corps, of which I was temporarily
A.A.A.G., and told me of a curious prophecy made by John R. Davis, an
old man - for a soldier,—and a member of my company. Davis predicted
that troops would go on transports to Memphis, and that he would die before
they went. Major Dawes asked me to give Davis an easy place at brigade
headquarters, saying that he was sick and perhaps a little offhis base. I had
him detailed, and tried to get him to prophesy for me without success. He
said he could not prophesy, that things came to him in dreams and they
always came true, and he did not know anything about them.
The Subliminal Self. 585
I went home on leave in September, and did not return to the regiment
until just before the battle of Missionary Ridge.
Davis did die and the troops did go to Memphis on transports. —Yours
truly. E. H. Ball.
It will be observed that this soldier's prediction comes nearer than
any case with which we have yet dealt to the ancient conception of
prophecy,—a revelation not petty nor personal, but of great issues, and
for some lofty end. Such prophecies are apt to be difficult to prove as
such,—to distinguish from the sage's foresight as to the trend and
stream of things. And, on the other hand, so far as these grave
communications claim a divine inspiration, this is hardly to be
distinguished from the subliminal messages of which we have so often
spoken. It is among two religious bodies widely divergent in dogmatic
teaching that such celestial promptings have seemed to have most of
cogency,—in the Catholic Church of the Middle Ages, and among the
earliest members of the Society of Friends. It is much to be desired
that the scattered indications of monition and premonition which
records of this type contain should be collected by some critical though
sympathetic hand. The early Friends especially presented a character
which cannot be alien to the best humanity of any age. Their com
bination of sober common-sense with inward openness to illumination,
—the steady expectancy of their calm untroubled souls,—this is the
temper which our inquiry needs, and which other men may surely attain
in the future as fully as these men in the past.
I have now given specimens of all the classes of evidence known to
me which bear on the relation of supernormal phenomena to time, and
have endeavoured to throw such light as was possible on each in turn.
The result is to me at least in one way of much interest. For these
phenomena of retrocognition and precognition, covering a wide range,
and regarded now in a new light, are found to have a close connection
with my whole group of previously accepted generalisations,—to lend
confirmation to them, and to receive confirmation from them in turn.
I may be able to make all this clearer—I hope that I shall not
seem to make it more dogmatic—by a diagrammatic scheme which
will at least offer to criticism definite points of attack. But if, instead
of a plane surface and a few black lines, I could exhibit a transparent
globe, varying in density, colour, and luminosity, we should still have
an absurdly inadequate symbol of that n-dimensional infinitude of
living faculty some few of whose properties we dimly discern. Nay,
scant as it is, the diagram is itself misleading. The opposite direction
of its lines implies no ultimate divergence ; all alike must be assumed
to meet at infinity.
The Subliminal Self. 587
A short description will indicate what I have tried to express by
this diagram.
1. The dark and the dotted circle represent sections of concentric
spheres ; of which the upper hemispheres represent the Future,
and the lower the Past. The vertical diameter divides material
phenomena on the left from mental on the right. The thick line
AB represents what I have elsewhere called " the spectrum of
ordinary consciousness " ; extending from the red end at A, where our
voluntary control over the body and our ordinary perceptions of its
processes cease, to the violet end at B, where the range of our higher
senses and of our intellect finds its term.
2. The small thick circle of which AB is a diameter represents that
area of time past and future which is within the grasp of the empirical
or supraliminal self,—by recollection of the past or reasoned inference
as to the future. This is a kind of " circle of perpetual apparition";
a small circle of the cosmic sphere, within which (save in sleep, &c.)
the stars never set.
3. The dotted circle indicates the realm of the subliminal Self ;
emerging into separate consciousness from the World-Soul in which it
is immersed, much as the dark circle rises into separate consciousness
out of the dotted circle of the larger Self.
The metaphor of a threshold of emergence, however, which the words
supraliminal and subliminal imply, is not expressed by the position of
lines as higher or lower in the plane of my diagram. Rather the small
circle, the supraliminal area, must be conceived as subjectively central
to the larger circle, or area of subliminal perception and control.
4. The line A'B' represents the spectrum of man's subliminal con
sciousness at any given moment. It runs along the upper side of the
thick line AB, because in this diagram Future is above and Past is
below ; and the subliminal consciousness, even if assumed to be acting
through the mediacy of the senses, must needs be always slightly ahead
of the empirical or organic ; since an appreciable time is consumed in
the act of sensation itself, and in the passage from sensation to
perception. The consequences of this fact were indicated when the
phenomena of promnesia, or apparent memory of the present moment,
were above discussed.
5. Conformably with what has been said above, and following the
thick line in the direction of A, the line AA' will represent the exten
sion of subliminal control over the organism, beyond the limit of em
pirical or voluntary control. This extended power of modifying the
organism, which we may term hyperboulia, has already met us in
various phenomena of hypnotism or of hysteria ;—for instance, in the
re-establishment of suppressed secretions.
588 F. W. H. Myers.
6. Carried on to a still further point, under the guidance of
disembodied intelligences, the line A'A" will indicate that extension
of will-power beyond the periphery which I regard as the basis of
such supernormal power over matter as I believe to have been
manifested through the agency of some few persons. Produced to
infinity this line may be supposed to indicate the mysterious connexion
of Mind and Matter,—the magnum corpus with which the World-
Soul is mingled in some identity beyond our ken.
7. Following now the thick line AB in the direction of B, the
line BB' will represent the extension of subliminal perception, first
hypersesthetic, using the sense-organs with increasing delicacy ; then
telsesthetic, or depending no longer on sense-organs, but on that
transcendental receptivity of which telepathy is the commonest type.
8. Passing on beyond the indefinite limitary circle of the sub
liminal self, we may take the line B'B" as symbolizing the commerce
of man's spirit with the world of unembodied mind, as in prayer or
ecstacy. Produced to infinity, the line may indicate the Cosmos in
its intellectual aspect,—the Mens which mingles with the magnum
corpus of the material world.
9. And now for the relations to Time of the faculties thus
indicated. The top of this diagram represents the Future, the bottom
the Past. The oblique ordinates which start from M—the focus of
man's consciousness — represent the pathways along which I think
that we have actual evidence of man's access to past and future things.
The rectangular ordinates, representing direct intuition of Past and
Future, by our own or higher minds, belong to that speculative
conception of a World-Soul involving both Future and Past of which
I have already spoken.
10. Let us next follow the oblique ordinate which starts from M,
and passes through C and C' to C". This line represents the physical
or organic aspect of memory. From M to C we have supraliminal
organic memory ;—such physical memories, that is to say, as can be
summoned up at will. From C to C we have subliminal organic
memories, including the whole range from hypnotism to heredity.
For heredity itself is in some sort a transmitted memory, and a record
of all ancestors is implicit in the germ. Following the line from
C to C", beyond the limits of the profounder organic personality, we
meet the question whether any similar trace, or persistent record of
past experiences, can inhere also and be discernible in inorganic
things.
The luminescent pebble glows with the treasured light of long-set
suns. And if this delicate and fugitive energy of light be thus
persistent, who shall imit the influences which may have stored
The Subliminal Self. 589
themselves within the labyrinth of vibrations which constitute the
pebble ?—influences evocable, perhaps, and recognisable when the
summons and the perception come.
It is conceivable, then, that the line C'C", prolonged to infinity,
might give us a complete history of every infinitely smallest particle in
the universe, from infinitely remote time.
11. And next let us follow the ordinate MDD'D"—the line which
represents intellectual, as distinguished from organic, memory ; the
synthetized and symbolical recollection which is what we consciously
retain of the Past. From M to D the line thus represents the
memory which we habitually employ ; from D to D' it represents the
hypermnesic, or fuller, but still synthetized and personal memory of
our past experiences which we have found the subliminal self to possess.
Passing out at D' from the sphere of the Self, we come to memories
possessed by other spirits, from which memories it may be possible that
knowledge passes to incarnate men. Each spirit's memory, like each
human memory, will presumably be unified by a personal synthesis.
It will be a subjective or impressionist record of a special segment of
the past.
12. And now between these two types of memory—the memory
implicate in Matter, living or dead, and the memory implicate in Mind,
embodied or disembodied,—I draw a rectangular ordinate MEE'E" to
represent direct retrocognition, by our own or by higher minds ;—
such persistence of the Past as an object of thought as may inhere
neither in material traces nor in reminiscence of personal experience.
What has been still may be ; and not merely as trace recognisable
in matter or as former impression revivable in mind. There may
be a self-existent and imprescriptible Cosmorama ; a conservation
at once of all thought and of all phenomena ; the World-Soul as
the Past.
13. And now passing on to those ordinates which symbolise the
future, let us begin with the oblique ordinate MFF'F", whose position
on the scheme shows it to indicate organic precognition. The ordinary or
supraliminal segment of this line, MF, is represented by a physician's,
or rather by the patient's own instinctive prognosis. Passing on into
the wider circuit of subliminal faculty, the line FF' indicates suggestion,
self-suggestion,—organic clairvoyance,—the profounder prognosis which
corresponds to hyperboulia ; since increased power over the organism
implies increased knowledge, and increased knowledge implies increased
foresight. All are now familiar with the process of setting (so to say)
the organic clock to strike at a given hour. But not all psychologists
have realised all that is implied in the supraliminal unconsciousness of
the suggested subject ; who bears within him the germ of a complex
590 F. W. H. Myers.
thought or action which to him will seem spontaneous and free ; yet
which will fulfil itself for him as irresistibly as the pang of hunger or
the languor of sleep.
Beyond the circuit of the Self, the line F'F" denotes spirit-
prognosis, spirit-suggestion ; the foretelling of predetermined organic
changes, including bodily death ; and the recommendation of remedies
which may modify or postpone such changes. There is some evidence
(as yet, unfortunately, mainly of a private kind) that such advice can
be given as from unseen intelligences,—which are not, however, able
to foresee (any more than an earthly physician can foresee) the
possible events from outside, o'r changes in the environment, whioh
may make the prescriptions of no avail.
14. And now let us pass on from organic prevision to that great
group of cases which I will provisionally class under the heading of
telcesthetic inference, but which depend no doubt on causes far more
varied and complex than we can at present fathom.
We have already seen that hyperesthesia involves hypermnesia ;
that is, when more is perceived more will be remembered. In the same
manner hypersesthesia involves what we might call hyper-promethia ;
that is, when more is perceived, more will be foreseen. The line MG
representing ordinary foresight, the line GG' represents the foresight of
the subliminal self ; based, as I have said, on hypersesthesia, and also
on the telepathy and telsesthesia into which this hypersesthesia inscrut
ably passes. Nor have we any theoretical limit to what the incarnate
soul may thus foresee. In many of our cases there is absolutely no clue
to the source of precognition ; and we may ascribe all these, if we will,
to the subliminal self without extraneous aid.
Yet, on the other hand, there are many cases where the agency of
unembodied spirits is asserted, and with evidence that cannot be
ignored. The line G'G" represents the foresight of unembodied
intelligences ; nor can we guess how high may be the communicating
intelligence, how far-reaching its prefigurement of what for us has
yet to be.
15. We are led thus to our last, our boldest conjecture. The line
from M to H" represents the possibility of a knowledge which comes
to man from no individuated, or at least from no human source ;
which is no longer inference but the reflection of Reality itself ;
of the World-Soul as the Future ; of a pre-existent Cosmorama of
infinite fates.
It is to this last line of reflection that the few concluding paragraphs
must be devoted. And first a few words as to the relation of our
evidence to the problem of Free Will. Here I have a suggestion to
make which even in this time-worn controversy is, I think, absolutely
The Subliminal Self. 591
novel. It is that we have now a possibility of making the question
between liberty and determination a matter of actual experiment.
Let us put that old question in this specific form—"Is there
evidence that any power can show me a picture involving my own
(so-called) voluntary actions in the future, which picture I cannot
by any effort in the smallest degree hinder from becoming actual
fact?"
For mere ordinary prevision this would of course be impossible.
But we have here certain foreshadowings which depend on no ordinary
prevision, and which are more wholly outside ourselves than any in
formation of equally definite character which we can otherwise receive.
The scenes or statements thus given in complete detail seem sometimes
to be fulfilled with equal completeness. But must they, or must any
of them, inevitably be thus fulfilled 1 Here it is that a possibility of
experiment comes in. The experiment indeed cannot be conclusive
either way. But suppose that—as in some folk-lore story—we were to
make vigorous effort to avert some incident, and were yet to find that
incident fulfil itself, perhaps by dint of that very effort, exactly after
the dreaded fashion,—should we not then have some reason to infer
that earth-life was not really modifiable by anything which we feel as
free-will 1
-* Assuming such a result of our experiment, analogy would at once
suggest a further possibility. For our life on earth would then be seen
to resemble the experience of the hypnotised subject, fulfilling un
wittingly in waking hours the suggestions previously made to him in
the trance. We should ask whether in our own history some epoch
may have existed in which a self-suggestion may have been given
which could similarly dominate our earthly career. Our complex
organism, the result of a long previous history, is felt to restrict our
so-called voluntary action within narrow limits ; and if we possess also
a soul independent of the body, it is surely likely that the soul's
previous history also—for some previous history any entity so highly
specialised as a man's soul must have had—may exercise a determining
influence, even more profound than the organism's influence, upon the
thoughts and actions of this incarnation. There may, in short, be a
kind of alternating personality, expressing itself first in an incorporeal
and then in a corporeal state, in such a way that the incorporeal state
is the deeper and the more permanent, and that suggestions thence
derived influence corporeal life, although the empirical consciousness
which governs that life may never know it.
This idea, of course, is not new to religion or to philosophy, in
East or West, and it has long since been suggested that our earthly
existence may be the inevitable sequel of our past eternity ; a pre
destined pilgrimage on which our true soul looks with calm content ;
2 t
592 F. W. H. Myers.
since not one of earth's phantom sorrows can find her unwilling or
strike her unaware. The soul foretaught, the body forewrought,—
these will move onwards as they must and may ; but meanwhile the
problem of Liberty and Necessity will no longer be one for earthly ex
perience to discuss ; it will be lifted into a pre-natal region, among the
secrets of the transcendental world.
All this must be conceived as possible ; yet I do not think that our
evidence thus far collected does in fact make for this view of pre
determined earthly fates. Rather we have seen that in many cases
monitions have averted incidents which would doubtless have occurred
had the percipient received no warning. And where dangers have
been foreshewn and yet not averted, this seems often to have been
because no adequate effort was made to avert them. The problem
which our narratives more urgently suggest is how to reconcile so much
foreknowledge with so much freedom. I have thought sometimes that
this problem of free human wills amid the predictable operations of
unchanging law may resemble the problem of molecular motion amid
molar calm. Clear and stable is for us the diamond ; the dewdrop is
clear and still ; yet within their tranquil clarity a myriad molecules
jostle in narrow orbits or speed on an uncomputed way. So to " the
spectator of all Time and of all Existence " may the Cosmos be " as one
entire and perfect chrysolite ; " and yet man's petty hopes and
passions may make endless turmoil among its minutest elements and in
its infinitesimal grains. Those movements too must be ruled by
unknown law ; yet on a wide view they will average out, and will
admit of predictions fulfilled immutably, and overriding the small Wills
of men.
Once more, and from a different standpoint. Few men have
pondered long on these problems of Past and Future without wonder
ing whether Past or Future be in very truth more than a name—
whether we may not be apprehending as a stream of sequence that
which is an ocean of co-existence, and slicing our subjective years and
centuries from timeless and absolute things. The precognition dealt
with in this chapter, indeed, hardly overpasses the life of the individual
percipient. Let us keep to that small span, and let us imagine that a
whole earth-life is in reality an absolutely instantaneous although an
infinitely complex phenomenon. Let us suppose that my transcend
ental self discerns with equal directness and immediacy every element
of this phenomenon ; but that my empirical self receives each element
mediately and through media involving different rates of retardation :
just as I receive the lightning more quickly than the thunder. May
not then seventy years intervene between my perceptions of birth and
death as easily as seven seconds between my perceptions of the flash
and peal 1 And may not some inter-communication of consciousness
The Subliminal Self. 593
enable the wider self to call to the narrower, the more central to the
more external, " At such an hour this shock will reach you ! Listen
for the nearing roar ! "
And thinking thus of the Universe as no mere congeries of
individual experiences, but as a plenum of infinite knowledge of which
all souls form part, we come to count less and less upon having to
deal exclusively with intelligences individualised like our own. Our
limitations of personality may less and less apply to spirits drawing
more directly upon the essential reality of things. The definite
intelligences which have crystallised, so to say, out of the psychical
vapour may even for us become again partly sublimated, may again
be diffused for a moment amid such knowledge as our organisations
cannot receive except in ecstasy and bewilderment, or retain except in
vanishing symbol and obscure and earthly sign.
If then all these phenomena form part of one great effort by which
man's soul is striving to know his spiritual environment, and his
spiritual environment is striving to become known, how little can it
matter what the special incident foretold or foreshadowed may be !
What signifies it whether this or that earthly peril be averted, or
earthly benefit secured,—whether through this or that petty channel
shall flow some stream of mortal things 1 The prime need of man
is to know more fully, that he may obey more unhesitatingly, the
laws of the world unseen. And how can this great end be attained
save by the unfoldment from within, in whatsoever fashion it may be
possible, of man's transcendental faculty ;—by his recognition of
himself as a cosmic being and not a planetary, as not a body but a
soul 1 Surely even that special premonition which is sometimes spoken
of as a thing of terror,—the warning or the promise of earthly death,—
should to the wise man sound as a friendly summons, and as a welcome
home. Let him remember the Vision which came to Socrates in the
prison-house ;—then, and then only, showing in an angel's similitude
the Providence which till that hour had been but as an impersonal and
invisible Voice ;—but now the " fair and white-robed woman ", while
friends offered escape from death, had already spoken of better hope
than this, and had given to Achilles' words a more sacred meaning,—
" On the third day hence thou comest to Phthia's fertile shore."
594 Report of the Hypnotic Committee for 1894-5.
II.
REPORT OF THE HYPNOTIC COMMITTEE FOR 1894-5.
The Committee comprises the following members :—T. Barkworth,
J.P. ; A. W. Barrett, M.B., Chairman ; J. M. Bramwell, M.B. ;
St. George Lane-Fox; W. Leaf, Litt.D. ; G. F. Rogers, M.D. ;
F. Podmore, M.A. ; G. A. Smith; C. L. Tuckey, M.D. ; A. Wallace,
M.D. ; and E. Westlake, Secretary.
From October 11th, 1894, to June 20th, 1895, 34 meetings were
held ; 30 at the Society's rooms, 3 at Finsbury-square, and 1 at
Hampstead. An average of four members attended at each meeting.
Thirty-six youths, all of whom stated that they had not been
previously hypnotised, came in reply to advertisements inserted in the
daily papers. Ten of these went away without having been tried. Of
the remaining 26, 18 were hypnotised, and 8 were unaffected, giving a
total of 70 per cent. hypnotisable. Five were decidedly affected on
the first attempt, and others may have been ; in a few cases the
hypnosis may have been slight. No strict tests were applied as to the
degree of hypnosis. The time was mainly occupied in testing for
thought-transference, with results which could be judged of on their
own merits, independently of any question as to the genuineness or
depth of the hypnosis.
It was observed that most if not all the subjects were primarily
en rapport with all those present, but this condition was easily
modified subsequently by suggestion.
Experiment* in thought-transference vrith a hypnotised subject.
Sixty-one experiments, with 7 operators and 14 subjects, were made
in guessing playing-cards, the total of cards guessed being 1,173. In
each experiment, a number of cards, varying from 4 to 52, or 20 on
the average, were guessed under practically uniform conditions.
Of these experiments, 39 were made with one or more members of
the Committee as agents (one at least being en rapport with the
subject), and one subject as percipient at a time. Usually one member
only acted as operator and agent. Occasionally other members, who
might or might not be in rapport, would also look at the cards. When
a subject had been once hypnotised, he was sometimes woke and
re-hypnotised by the next person about to act as agent; at other times
the subject was simply put in rapport with the next agent. A total
of 817 cards were tried, out of which the subjects told correctly 214
Report of the Hypnotic Committee for 1894-5. 595
suits, 79 pips, and 19 whole cards.1 The most probable number of
successes by chance would be 204, 63, and 16 respectively ; the
numbers required to prove some cause other than chance being 257,
95, and 32 respectively.2
In four of these experiments, the agents were in contact with the
percipients while they were guessing 47 cards. The percipients were
correct in 7 suits, 4 pips, and 3 whole cards—a higher result than
in the guessing without contact. The number of cards tried is, how
ever, too small to draw any conclusion from, and as it was desired to
avoid possible sources of error in the experiments, they were not
carried further in this direction.
In some experiments the card guessed coincided more often with
the preceding card (the one last looked at by the agent) than with the
one he was looking at at the time. Thinking that this might perhaps
point to the greater efficacy of sub-conscious suggestion, we have
analysed the experiments throughout from this point of view, and a
summary of the results is given in a foot-note to each group. The
number of successes of this kind—that is, of coincidence of the guess
with the card last looked at by the agent—is, except in the last group,
always below the most probable number of successes by chance ;
whereas the number of real successes—that is, coincidence of the guess
* with the card looked at by the agent at the time—is always above the
most probable number.3
Experiments in thought-transference with two hypnotised subjects.
The remaining 22 experiments were made with two subjects ; the
operator and one subject acting as agent, and the other subject as
percipient.
1 The number of successes in "suits" and in "pips" include the successes in
"whole cards," as well as those in "suits" or "pips" respectively. This is done
for convenience of comparison with the most probable number of successes by chance
in each case.
2 These are calculated from the formula given by Mr. Sanger in his analysis of
Mrs. Verrall's card experiments in Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXVIII., p. 193. As
he shows in his explanation of the method of calculation, the number of trials is
insufficient to base any definite conclusions on whenever the number of successes
required to prove some cause other than chance is greater than twice the most
probable number of successes. It will be found that in the case of whole cards, any
series of less than 800 trials would be insufficient. The number of successes in whole
cards necessary to prove some cause other than chance is therefore only given in the
two series of 817 and 969.
3 In the group of experiments already referred to—in which the cards were
guessed by one percipient at a time-out of a total of 778 preceding cards, 193 suits
coincided, 52 pips, and 12 whole cards. The most probable number of successes by
chance would be 194, 6O, and 15 respectively. The successes were therefore in each
case below the most probable number. This, as far as it goes, tends to show that
unconscious suggestion was inoperative, and to emphasise the results got in guessing
the cards looked at at the time.
596 Report of the Hypnotic Committee for 1894-5.
Twelve of these experiments were made without contact either
between the subjects themselves or between them and the operator.
The subjects, having been hypnotised by some member of the Com
mittee, were seated in chairs about a foot apart and turned either back
to back or at an angle sufficient not to see one another. A card was
then drawn from a pack by the operator, or by another member of
the Committee, and placed upright on the sideboard under the south
bookcase in the library at a height of about three feet from the floor.
A large black book was usually placed behind the card to form a dark
background. The card was then looked at intently by the operator
and by one of the hypnotised subjects—the two acting as agents. At
the same time the second subject, who was acting as percipient, and
who was turned the other way with eyes closed, was told that a card
was being looked at. In about a quarter of a minute the percipient
either named a card of his own accord, or did so on being asked by the
operator.
These twelve experiments comprised a total of 152 cards, out of
which the percipient told correctly 45 suits, 8 pips, and 2 whole cards.
The most probable number of successes by chance would be 38, 12,
and 3 respectively ; the numbers required to prove some cause other
than chance being 61 in suits and 26 in pips.
Summarizing the two foregoing groups in which there was no
contact, we have a total of 51 experiments with 969 cards, out of
which the percipients told correctly 259 suits, 87 pips, and 21 whole
cards.1 The most probable number of successes by chance would be
242, 75, and 19 respectively; the numbers required to prove some
cause other than chance being 299, 110, and 37 respectively.
Ten similar experiments were also made in which the subjects were
in contact with one another and with the operator, usually with joined
hands, the other arrangements being as before described. The usual
form of contact was as follows :—The subject-percipient's left hand
was placed on the operator-agent's knee ; the subject-agent placed his
right hand on the subject-percipient's hand, and the operator-agent
placed his hand on the top of both. Sometimes the operator held the
subject's joined hands in both of his. In the first experiments the
subject-agent's right hand was simply placed on the subject-percipient's
left arm.
These experiments include a total of 204 cards, out of which the
percipient told correctly 56 suits, 84 pips, and 16 whole cards. The
most probable number of successes by chance would be 51, 16, and 4
1 Out of a total of 919 preceding cards, 222 suits were told correctly, 61 pips, and
16 whole cards. The most probable number of successes by chance would be 230, 71,
and 18 respectively. The successes were thus in all cases below chance.
Report of the Hypnotic Committee for 1894-5. 597
respectively ; the number required to prove some cause other than
chance being 77 in suits and 32 in pips.1
No code or ordinary process of communication was detected on any
occasion. In view, however, of (a) the excess in pips being about
4 times that in suits, (6) the immediate falling off of the results
whenever contact was broken, and (c) the proved hyperesthesia of
the subject on several occasions, it seems probable that indications
may have been given (perhaps unconsciously on one or both sides)
of a normal nature, such as movements or muscular pressures so slight
as to have escaped the notice of the experimenters.
The experience, therefore, of the Committee with reference to
thought-transference between the operator and subject, or between the
hypnotised subjects, is as yet negative. Although the results in several
of the series exceeded the most probable number of successes by chance,
the excess was not very great, and the successes in every case fell short
of the numbers required to prove some cause other than chance, with
the single exception of the pips in the series of 204 trials just men
tioned, where contact was used.
There may, however, be some significance in the fact that the
coincidence of the guesses with the " preceding cards " was invariably
—when no contact was used—below the most probable number of
coincidences by chance. This seems at least to strengthen the proba
bility that the actual successes obtained were not all due to chance.
Experiments with Miss Maud Lancaster.
During the month of June, Miss Maud Lancaster, a professional
thought-reader and discoverer of hidden articles and stolen property,
attended on three occasions. The experiments took usually the
following form :—
A situation simple in character and dramatic in action, such as a
murder or a theft, was rehearsed in Miss Lancaster's absence by the
Committee. She then entered the room, was blindfolded, and was told
the general nature of the scene. Then stretching out her hands as
though feeling in the air, and touching the sitters slightly, she
identified the actors and the parts taken by them.
The experiments were also varied thus :—A member of the
Committee in the sight of his colleagues and in Miss Lancaster's
absence, touched a certain point in the room for a few seconds, which
Miss Lancaster, on being blindfolded, and again introduced, speedily
1 Out of 194 preceding cards, 60 suits were told correctly, 21 pips, and 4 whole
cards. The most probable number of successes by chance would be 49, 15, and 4
respectively ; the numbers required to prove some cause other than chance being
74 in suits and 31 in pips.
598 Report of the Hypnotic Committee for 1894-5.
identified. She was not in contact with any one who knew what the
spot was during any part of the time that she was searching for it.
The Committee were impressed throughout these experiments by
the possibility that Miss Lancaster may have been able to tell from
the movements of the sitters whether they approved of her doings.
Success was attained by her only after she had made a variety of
tentative muscular movements, and had felt the sitters—when
required to identify them. To some of them, at any rate, it seemed
that when they were concentrating their thoughts upon the action
sought for, they might by some sound, by their breathing, or by their
movements when touched, have given her indications, although their
untrained senses failed to notice it.
This conclusion seems warranted by the fact that when Miss
Lancaster was restricted from making muscular movements on her
own account, as when she was set to name a card known only to one
or more members of the Committee, she invariably failed.
Moreover, when she attempted to find a hidden coin, the situation
of which was known to one only of the Committee, she succeeded
only in one out of six trials.
This agrees with her own statement that she succeeds best with
her experiments in the presence of large audiences.
Before admitting that thought-transference is operative in her
experiments, further investigation is required.
Supplement. 599
Review.
SUPPLEMENT.
REVIEW.
VHypothise du Magnitisme Animal. By E. Boirac (Nouvelle Revue,
' October, 1895).
In the October number of the NouveUe Revue, M. Boirac has published
some interesting and important observations on effects produced by himself
as hypnotic agent without contact with his subject. They are confined to
phenomena of apparent attraction produced by movements of his hands on
the limbs of the patient. The following abridged account may serve as a
type. The subject in this case is a boy of 15, from the Pyrenees, who was in
M. Boirac's service for six months.
"One Sunday afternoon in January, 1893, coming in at 3 o'clock, I found
that Jean had gone to lie down. I found him asleep on his back on his bed.
Standing by the door, at a distance of three metres, I stretched out my hand
towards and on a level with his feet. After a minute or two, perhaps loss, I
J raised my hand, and, to my amazement, saw his legs rise from the bed and
foBow the upward movement of my hand. This was repeated three times
with absolute regularity. I called Mme. B., and in her presence repeated
the experiment two or three times. Mme. B. suggested to me to try the
effect of simple thought. I fixed my eyes on his feet, and slowly raised them.
The feet followed the movements of my eyes, rising, stopping, and falling
with them. Mme. B. took my left hand and with her other did as I had
done. She succeeded, like myself ; but as soon as she ceased to touch me,
she produced no effects. "
With another subject, Gustave P., similar results were obtained, namely,
attraction of his limbs by movements of the right hand, under circumstances
which, in M. Boirac's opinion, were sufficient to exclude the hypothesis of
hyperesthesia as well as of normal vision and verbal suggestion. But in this
case, when the left hand was used, instead of attraction or repulsion, the
subject said that he felt a violent pricking in the limb pointed at ; when both
hands were used together, he complained of a "muddle" (cj&chis) of the two
sensations. With the aid of a friend, M. Boirac tried the effect of a copper
wire, of which he held one bare end, while the other, wrapped round a
wooden ruler, was presented by his colleague to the subject's body. The
effect was the same as that of the hand itself, while M. 'Boirac remained in
the room and could see what was going on ; but when he tried from the next
room, with the door closed between, the characteristic symptoms seem to
have given place to a general feeling of malaise and heaviness in the head.
On repeating with the earlier subject, Jean, the experiments thus suggested,
it was found that there was no difference in the action of the right and left
hands ; both alike produced attraction.
600 ISupplement
Review.
M. Boirac is to be congratulated on his good fortune in having hit upon
subjects showing this high degree of sensitiveness. We wish we could, from
experience, confirm his conviction that "any one who tries experiments in
similar conditions " will be able to verify them. We can assure him that it
is not from want of patience in searching for suitable subjects that the
Hypnotic Committee of the Society have failed in witnessing even remotely
similar results.
When we come to the interpretation of these experiments, we are sorry to
find ourselves at issue with ML Boirac. He regards them as pointing to
"Animal Magnetism" as distinct from suggestion. If he means to exclude
from suggestion what we in England call "Thought-transference " and
Continental observers " Mental Suggestion," he is probably right ; though I
am not entirely satisfied that the conditions of the experiments, which are
very imperfectly recorded, are such as to exclude the possibility of " mind
reading " by hyperesthesia. Still, assuming that this possibility has been
successfully excluded, I do not see that M. Boirac is justified, much less
compelled, to have recourse to the term "Animal Magnetism." That has been
discarded on the ground that it suggests all sorts of false, or at least highly
improbable, analogies ; and it seems clear that M. Boirac has allowed himself
to be misled in this very way. It is true that he does not clearly say what he
means by "Animal Magnetism," but such phrases as "le rayonnement
magnetiquo ou uerveux " raise a very strong suspicion that he looks upon the
dynamic agency concerned as a physical force, with spatial relations and
actually analogous to the physical magnetism with which we are acquainted. ^
We know far too little to say that it is not so ; but I am not aware of any
experiments which tend to prove it, and M. Boirac's seem to me to go certainly
against it. The mere fact that he obtained phenomena of " attraction " is
surely the most superficial of analogies, when we think of the imitativeness
which is one of the commonest features of deep hypnotic trance. In one case,
M. Boirac got a sort of polarity bet.veen his hands, but his attempt to verify
this on another subject proved that it was not a property of any force
emanating from himself, but a result of some subconscious interpretation in
the mind of the subject. The experiments with the copper wire, if they
prove anything, show that the force cannot be conducted from one room to
another like electricity. And finally, I venture to suggest that if M. Boirac
wishes to get the ear of men of science, it can only be done by the pub
lication of exact observations, such as the classical experiments of Gurney.
M. Boirac may have kept an equally exact record ; if so, it should certainly t
be published. But the present article shews no trace of the careful control
experiments which might have been suggested in abundance by perusal of the
work of the S. P.R. in England, or of Moll in Germany ; and while these are
absent, one cannot feel that any substantial advance is likely to come from
popular publication,
Walter Leaf.
Edmund Gumey Library. 601
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
SUPPLEMENTARY CATALOGUE, 1895.
Additions since the list in "Proceedings," Vol. X.
Podmobe (Frank, M.A.), Apparitions and Thought-transference :
An Examination of the Evidence for Telepathy. London, 1894
(Another Copy.)
Janet (Prof. Pierre), L'Automatisme Psychologique (2nd
Edition) Paris, 1894
Psychologique, L'Annee, Publiee par M.M. H. Beaunis et A.
Binet, Premiere Annee, 1894 Paris, 1895
Schrejtck-Notzino (Dr. Freiherr von), Die Bedeutung nar-
cotischer Mittel für den Hypnotismus. Reprint from the
" Schriften der Gesellschaft für psychologische Forschung "
—Heft 1 Leipzig, 1891
Ueber Suggestion und Suggestive Zustände Munich, 1893
Ein Beitrag zur psychischen und suggestiven Behandlung der
Neurasthenie Berlin, 1894
Der Hypotismus im Münchener Krankenhause Leipzig, 1894
Gutachten. [Aus die Bedeutung der Hypnotischen Sug
gestion als Heilmittel. Berlin.'] 1894
Suggestion, Suggestivetherapie, Psychische Behandlung.
[Aus der Real-Encyclopädie der Gesammter Heilkunde.
Vol. III. Berlin.'] 1893
(Another Essay under the same title from Vol. IV. of the
same Encyclopedia) 1894
Stoll (Dr. Otto), Suggestion und Hypnotismus in der Völker
Psychologie Leipzig, 1894
A full Catalogue oj the books in the Edmund Gurney Library was printed
at the end of Vol. V. of the Proceedings. Supplementary Catalogues were
printed at the end of Vols. VI., VII., VIII., IX., and X. Separate
copies of these Catalogues are still on hand, and can be obtained from the
Secretary.
602 Officers and Council for 1896.
PRESIDENTS.
(Prior to Incorporation.)
Professor H. Sidgwick ------ 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S. - - - 1885-1887.
Professor H. Sidgwick ------ 1888-1892.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S. - 1893.
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A. - - 1894-1895.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1896.
PRESIDENT.
William Crookes, F.R.S.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour,
M.P., F.R.S.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.E.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T.
Richard H. Hutton.
Professor William James, Har
vard, U.S.A.
Professor S. P. Langley, Smithson
ian Institution,Washington, U.S.A.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of
Ripon.
Professor Henry Sidgwick.
council.
TheRt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, M.P.
Thomas Barkworth.
A. W. Barrett, M.B.
Professor W. F. Barrett.
G. P. Bidder, Q.C.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal-
carres, K.T., F.R.S.
Lieut.-Col. J. Hartley.
Mr. Registrar Hood.
Walter Leaf, Litt.D.
Professor Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S.
ProfessorMacalister.M.D.,F.R.S.
Frederic W. H. Myers.
Frank Podmore.
Lord Rayleigh, F.RS.
C. Lockhart Robertson, M.D.
George F. Rogers, M.D.
Sydney C. Scott.
Professor Henry Sidgwick.
H. Arthur Smith.
H. Barinoton Smith.
R. Pearsall Smith.
Sir Augustus K. Stephenson,
K.C.B., Q.C.
Professor J. J. Thomson, F.RS.
J. Venn, D. Sc., F.R.S.
Abraham Wallace, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, 1, New Square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Frederic W. H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Frank Podmore, 32, Well Walk, Hampstead, London, N.W.
SECRETARY FOR THE UNITED StATES.
Dr. Richard Hodgson, 5, Boylston Place, Boston, Mass.
ASSISTANT-SECRETARY.
Edward T. Bennett, 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 603
SCHEDULE OF MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
(August 7th, 1895. The date of the Registration of the Society.)
PRESIDENT.
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Right Hon. Arthur J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.
Professor W. F. Barrett, Royal College of Science, Dublin.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
John R. Hollond, Esq., 1, Upper Berkeley-street, Portman-square, W.
Richard H. Hutton, Esq., Crossdeep Lodge, Twickenham.
Professor S. P. Lanoley, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.A.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of Ripon, The Palace, Ripon.
Pbofessor Henry Sidgwick, Cambridge.
HONORARY MEMBERS.
'William Crookes, F.R.S., 7, Kensington Park-gardens, London, W.
The Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, Hawarden Castle, Chester.
Sir Frederick Leighton, Bart., P.R.A., 2, Holland Park-road, W.
John Ruskin, LL.D., D.C.L., Brantwcod, Coniston, Lancashire.
Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.S., Corfe View, Parkstone, Dorset.
G. F. Watts, R.A., Little Holland House, London, W.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
Alexander N. Aksakof, 6, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa, 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor H. Beaunis, Villa Josephine, Boute d'Antibes, Cannes,
Alpes Maritimes, France.
Professor Bernheim, H6pital Civil, Nancy.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Cambridge,
Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia College, New York, U.S.A.
Dr. Darikx, 6, Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Dr. Max Dessoir, 27, Kothener Strasse, Berlin, W.
Dr. Fere, 37, Boulevard St. Michel, Paris.
Professor Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Eduard von Hartmann, Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany.
604 Schedule of Members and Associates.
Professor Pierre Janet, 22, Rue de Bellechasse, Paris.
Dr. A. A. Liebeault, Nancy, France.
Professor J. Liegeois, Nancy, France.
Professor C. Lombroso, 43, Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,U.S.A.
Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15, Rue de l'UniversiW, Paris.
Professor Saratier, Montpellier, France.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2, Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Professor N. Wagner, Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
Dr. Otto G. Wetterstrand, Stockholm.
MEMBERS, HONORARY ASSOCIATES, AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Adams, Mrs., 4, Brookside, Cambridge.
AinSliE, Ainslie Douglas, 15, Lower Grosvenor-place, S.W.
Alcock, Richard, M.B., Burlington-crescent, Goole.
Alexander, S., M.A., The Owens College, Manchester.
Allen, Frederic, Sidmouth-road, Newcastle, Staffordshire.
Allen, Henry J., 14, Ailesbury-road, Donnybrook, co. Dublin.
Allen, Miss Mary Gray, 14, Queen's-square, W.C.
Allen, Rev. W. O. B., M.A., 83, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Amery, W. C, 34a, Corporation-street, Birmingham.
Anderson, James Arbuthnot, 46, Warwick-gardens, Kensington, W.
Anderson, Miss M. 25, Lansdowne-crescent, Kensington Park, W.
Argles, Miss Edith M., The Deanery, Peterborough.
Arnott, T. Davidson, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.
Ashburton, The Lady, Kent House, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Atkinson, Miss E. A., 44, Percy-gardens, Tynemouth.
Bacchus, Mrs., The Manor House, Lillington, near Leamington.
Bacon, Rev. John Mackenzie, M.A., Coldash, Newbury.
Badelier, Emile, Rangoon, British Burmah.
Bailey, Mrs., H. H., 50, Clarendon-road, Holland Park, W.
Baillie, Edmund J., F.L.S., Woodbine, Eaton-road, Chester,
Bain, James L., M A., Birnam, St. John's, Sevenoaks, Kent.
Baines, Miss W., Tighnamara, Rothesay, Isle of Bute, N.B.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 47, Russell-road, West Kensington, W,
Balfour,The Right Hon. A. J.,M.P.,F.R.S., 4,Carlton-gdns.,S.W.
Balfour.The Right Hon. G.W., M.P., 67, Addison-road, London,W.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 605
Balfour, Miss, 4, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Bannerman, Colonel P. W., 8, Somers-place, Hyde Park, London, W.
Barber, Mrs. J. W., Ferndene, Abbeydale, near Sheffield.
Barclay, Rev. Chas.W., M. A.,TheVicarage, Hertford Heath, Hertford.
Barkworth, Thomas, J. P., West Hatch, Chigwell, Essex.
Barlow, Miss Jane, The Cottage, Raheny, co. Dublin.
Barlow, Colonel W. R., 56, Penywern-road, London, S.W.
Barmby, Rev. James, B.D., Pittington Vicarage, Durham.
Barrett, Ashley William, M.B. (Lond.), 42, Finsbury-square, E.C.
Barrett, Rev. Canon, M.A., St. Margaret's Vicarage, Lincoln.
Barrett, Professor W. F., F.R.S.E., Kingstown, co. Dublin.
Barrington, Hon. Eric, 62, Cadogan-place, London, S.W.
Bartholomew, Colonel, Bantry Lodge, GlengarifF, co. Cork.
Bates, Colonel C. E., 34, Oxford-terrace, Hyde Park, W.
Bates, Miss, c/o London and County Bank, Maidstone.
Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring.
Baypield, Rev. Matthew A., M.A., The College, Eastbourne.
Beatty, Octavius, Killevey, Darleston-road, Wimbledon, Surrey.
Beazley, Lieotenant-Colonel George G., 74, Redcliffe-sq., S.W.
Bective, The Countess of, Barnacre Lodge, Garstang.
Beer, Mrs., 7, Chesterfield-gardens, London, W.
J Bell, Charles W., J.P., D.L., Yewhurst, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Bell, Major Wm. Morrison, Thor, Birchington, Thanet, Kent.
Bellasis, Major G. M., c/o H. S. King and Co., 45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., Devonshire House, Richmond, near London.
Bennett, Ernest N., M.A., Hertford College, Oxford.
Benson, Mrs., Lambeth Palace, London, S.E.
Benson, R. Hugh, 1, Landscape-place, Llandaff.
Berens, Rev. Randolph, M.A., 14, Prince's-gardens, London, S.W.
Bergen, Axel von, Harewood Hill, Darlington.
Bergen, Dr. Carl von, 32, Karlavagen, Stockholm.
Bernard, John, Captain, R.M.LI., H.M.S. " Nelson," Portsmouth.
Berry, Mrs.F. M. Dickinson, M.D.,60,Welbeck-st.,Cavendish-sq.,W.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131, Gloucester-road, London, S.W,
Beveridge, Erskine, St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Bibby, Charles Hesketh, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bickford-Smith, R.A.H., B.A., 19, Endymion-road, Brixton Rise, S.W.
Bicknell, Rev. Clarence, M.A., Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
Bidder, George P., Q.C., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bidder, Mrs. G. P., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bidder, George P., Junr., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Biddulph, The Lady Elizabeth P., 19, Ennismore-gardens, S.W.
Bielby, Horace C. V., 67, Lord-street, Liverpool, W.
2 u
606 Schedule of Members and Associates.
Bigg, Miss Louisa, Lyndhurst, Luton.
Birks, Rev. Edward B., M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Birbell, Mrs., Lansdowne-road, Worthing.
Blackburn, Ernest M., 38, Egerton-gardens, London, S.W.
Blackwell, Elizareth, M.D., Rock House, Hastings.
Blackwood, Mrs., Norton Court, Sittingbourne, Kent.
Blakelock, Rev. R., M.A., Horbury Bridge Vicarage, Wakefield.
Blaquiere, Mrs. Charles de, 1, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Boger, Mrs. H. M., Elvington, Ryde, Isle of Wight. \
Bois, Henry Gordon, c/o J. M. Robertson and Co., Colombo, Ceylon.
Bois, Herbert G., 4, Clarendon-place, Hyde Park-square, W.
Boldero, Lieut.-General G. N., 20, Westbourne-gardens, Folkestone.
Bolland, Mrs., 7, Cranbury-terrace, Southampton.
Bonus, Arthur R., Dharwar, India.
Boorne, Herbert H, 55 and 56, Chancery-lane, London, W.C.
Boscq de Beaumont, G. du, Bayeux (Calvados), France.
Boswell-Stone, Miss E. L , Dayrells, 47, Wickham-road, Beckenham.
Boucher, Mrs., c/o Miss Lutley, West-street, Wiveliscombe, Somerset.
Bodlnois, H. Percy, M.Inst.C.E., 7, Devonshire-road, Liverpool.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Highclere Rectory, Newbury.
Bowell, Ernest W. W., Sissinghurst Vicarage, Staplehurst, Kent.
Bowness, William Wilson, 26,Campden-grove, Kensington, London,W. V
Boyd, C. W., 7, Abbotsford-crescent, St. Andrews, N.B.
Bbamston, Miss A. R., Witham-close, Winchester.
Bramston, Miss M., Suntrap, Radcliffe-road, Croydon.
Bramwell, John M., M.B., 2, Henrietta-street, Cavendish-square,W.
Brandreth, Henry S., Fairholme, Weybridge.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brett, George, The College, Weston-super-Mare.
Brewster, Mrs. F., 21, Park-valley, Nottingham.
Briggs, Mrs., Rawdon Hall, near Leeds.
Brill, Alice B., M.D., New York, U.S.A.
Britten, James, F.L.S., 18, West-square, Southwark, S.E.
Brooke, Lady, Ranee of Sarawak, Wimbledon Park, S.W.
Brooke, Rev. Stopford A., M.A., 1, Manchester-square, London, W.
Brown, Miss Johnson, 26, Carisbrooke-road, St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Browne, Edward G., M.A., M.B., Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Browne, Mrs. Walter P., Bidston, Alleyn-road, West Dulwich, S.E.
Browning, Oscar, M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Bruhns, TneOdOrE, Simferopol, Russia.
Bryant, Captain G. E., R.A., c/o J. M. Edwards, The Elms, Ramsgate.
Bryce, J. P., J. P., Bystock, near Exmouth, Devon.
Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15, Campden Hill-square, W.
Buchanan, H. B. M., B.A., 9, Upper Beulah Hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 607
Buckler, W. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bullock, Mrs., Cedars Lodge, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bulmer, Mrs., Field House, Sleights, R.S.O., York.
Bunnett, A., Junr., 10, Station-road, South Norwood, S.E.
Bunshaw, N.F., Med. Off., B.G.J.P. Railway,Ghadechi, Kathiawar, India.
Burghclere, The Rt. Hon., 48, Charles-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Burghclere, The Lady, 48, Charles-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Burt, Percival J., 16, Leadenhall-street, London, E.G.
Burton, Mrs., 1, Iddesleigh Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Bushell, Rev. W. D., M.A., Harrow-on-the-Hill.
Butcher, Miss, Nurse's Home, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, E.C.
Bute, The Marquis of, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
Butler, G. W., B.A., F.G.S., Sandham, Chertsey, Surrey.
Butt, Lady, 17, Viale P***- Margherita, Florence, Italy.
Buttemer, Robert William, St. Mary's, Godalming.
Caillard, Vincent, Constantinople.
Caillard, Miss, Wingfield House, near Trowbridge, Wiltshire.
Caird, Mrs., 3, Lyndhurst-gardens, South Hampstead, London.
Caithness, The Countess of, Duchesse de Pomar, 124,
Avenue de Wagram, Paris.
Caldecott, Rev. Alfred, M.A., 45, Chesterton-road, Cambridge.
* Callaway, Charles, D.Sc., M.A., Sandon, Wellington, Salop.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Colintraive, Argyllshire, N.B.
Campbell, Colin E., B.A., 22, Market Hill, Cambridge.
Campbell, Mrs. Napier, 81, Ashley-gardens, London, S.W.
Cannon, Mrs., Hillcot, Sharpies, near Bolton.
Carey, Arthur, B.Sc, Browsich, Gateacre, near Liverpool.
Carleton, Hon. Mrs. Leir, Greywell Hall, Winchfield.
♦Carlile, W. A., 101, Whjtehead-road, Aston, Birmingham.
Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Carter, Mrs. L. Brudenell, Ridgeway, Langley-avenue, Surbiton.
Cathels, Rev. David, M A., The Manse, Hawick, N.B.
Cave, Charles, J. P., 13, Lowndes-square, London, S.W.
Cave-Browne-Cave, Mrs. T., Burnage, Streatham Common, S.W.
Cazalet, Mrs., Grenehurst, Dorking.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham.
Champness, Alfred, Sedbergh, Yorks,
Chase, Capt. W. St. L., V.C., care of Messrs. William Watson and
Co., 28, Apollo-street, Bombay.
Ohattock, Arthur P., University College, Bristol.
Childers, Miss F. I., 46, Gunter's-grove, London, S.W.
Clark, W. W., Denehurst, Dorking.
Clark, Miss, Suffield Park, Cromer.
Clarke, John Henry, M.D., 30, Clarges-street, London, W.
2 u 2
008 Schedule of Members and Associates.
Clarke, Robert H., M.A., M.B., M.R.C S., Clarence Lodge, Redhill.
Clayton, Charles E., Hillcote, Highcroft Villas, Brighton.
Clemens, S. L., Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Cleveland, The Ducness of, 18, Grosvenor-place, London, S.W.
Clissold, Edward M., Fawley Lodge, Lansdown-road, Cheltenham.
Clive.The Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Close, Rev. Maxwell H., M.A., University Club, Dublin.
Coates, Andrew, Pitcullen House, Perth, N.B.
Coffin, Walter H., F.L.S., 94, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Coghill, Colonel Kendal, C.B., Cosheen, Castle Townshend, co. Cork.
Colchester, Rev. H. B., M.A., 7, Bennett-street, St. James's, S.W.
Colegrane, Mrs. E , Bracebridge, Norwood, S.E.
Coleridge, Miss Christarel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Collingwood, Miss A. M., 5, Addison-mansions, West Kensington, W.
Collins, Sir Robert H, K.C.B., Broom Hill, Claremont, Esher.
Collison, Mrs. Henry C, 17b, Great Cumberland-place, London, W.
Colthurst, Lady, 47, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Colvile, Colonel Henry E., C.B., 24, Chapel-st., Belgrave-square, S.W.
Cooney, Rev. Stewart E., M.A., 28, Donegall-passage, Belfast.
Cope, Rev. C. H., M.A., Brooklyn, Croydon-road, Caterham.
Cotterell, James, 140, Earlsfield-road, Wandsworth Common, S.W.
Cort van der Linden, Professor P. W. A., Amsterdam, Holland.
Cousens, Charles H., Star Chambers, 30, Moorgate-st., London, E.C.
Cowan, Mrs., Valleyfield, Penicuik, N.B.
Cowper, The Hon. Mrs. Spencer, Grosvenor Hotel, London, S.W.
Crawford and Balcarres, The Earl of, K.T., F.R.S., 2, Caven
dish-square, London, W.
Crawford, F. Marion,Villa Crawford, Sant'Agnellodi Sorrento, Italy.
Crawford, W. C, 1, Lockharton-gardens, Slateford, Midlothian, N.B.
Crawley, Mrs., 3, Regent-street, London, S.W.
Crawshay, Robert, 16, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Crespo, J. Charters, Rio Maior, Portugal.
Crewdson, Miss Gwendolen, The Barons, Reigate.
Crommelin, Miss Constance de la C, 29, Sussex-square, Brighton.
Crossley, Professor Hastings, Casa Grazia, Bordighera, Italy.
Crowe, W. Leadham, 10, Jeffry's-square, St. Mary Axe, London, E.C.
Crowther, W. Fearne, Mayfield, Sussex.
Cruise, F. R., M.D., 93, Merrion-square, W., Dublin.
Crump, Harold E., M.A., The Chestnuts, St. Margaret's, Twickenham.
Cunningham, G.,D.M.D. (Harvard, U.S.A.), 2, King's-parade, Cambridge.
♦Curtis, Miss Mary, Laugharne, St. Clears, South Wales.
D'Abbadie, Antoine, 120, Rue de Bac, Paris.
Dakyns, Henry Graham, M.A.,Higher Coombe, Haslemere, Surrey.
Dallas, Miss H. S. A., 116, King Henry's-rd., South Hampstead, N.W.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 609
Damania, Surgeon-Major, P. J., National Liberal Club, London.
Danvers, Mks., 4, Cranley Mansion, Gloucester-road, S.W.
Darell-Brown, Mrs., 1, Douro-villas, Cheltenham.
Darley, Lady, Quambi, Woollohra, New South Wales.
Darwin, Mrs. Francis, Wychfield, Huntingdon-road, Cambridge.
Davies, Benjamin, 20, Lomond-road, Fairfield, Liverpool.
Davis, A. E., F.R.C.S. (Ed.), L.R.C.P.I., 20, Great George-sq., Liverpool.
Davis, Joseph T., Holly Bush, Snaresbrook, Essex.
Davis, Thomas Henry, 23, Manor-park, Lee, Kent.
Davison, Miss Annie, 1, Stanford-road, Kensington, W,
Dawkin, William, 61, Clifton-street, Larkhall-lane, S.W.
Day, Barclay L., Redcot, Meads, Eastbourne.
De Brath, Stanley, Hawthornden, Lawrie Park-rd., Sydenham, S.E.
De Grey, The Countess, 1, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Dem, John, Walsingham, Chislehurst.
♦Despard, Miss, 77, Chesterton-road, North Kensington, London, W.
Dewar, Rev. Peter, M.A., The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, N.B.
Dicksee, Frank, A.R.A., 80, Peel-street, Campden Hill, London, W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.A., M.B., 6, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
Dixon, Edward T., 4, Cranmer-road, Cambridge.
Dixon, Hugh N, M.A., F.L.S., East Park Parade, Northampton.
,* Dobbie, A. W., Gawler-place, Adelaide, South Australia.
Dodgson, Rev. Charles Lutwidge, M.A., Christ Church, Oxford.
Donnelly, Mrs., Kendall-street, Cowra, New South Wales.
Dougall, Miss Lily, 24, Norham-road, Oxford.
Douglas, Rev. Dr. George W., 473, Fifth-avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Doveton, F. B., Eastcliffe, Babbacombe, South Devon.
Dowson, Mrs., L.K.Q.C.P., L.R.C.S.I., 20, Westgate-terrace, Redcliffe-
square, London, S.W.
Doyle, A. Conan, M.D., Mena Honor, near Cairo, Egypt.
Doke, Thomas, M.A., M.R.C.S., 33, Bilton-road, Rugby.
Dulley, Rev. B., M.A., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.
Duncan, Mrs. A.M.A., Victoria Club, 30a, Sackville-st., London, W.
Dutt, R. C, CLE., Burdwan, Bengal, India.
Dyce, Captain Cecil, (Retired) Bengal Staff Corps, 64, Pembridge
Villas, Notting Hill Gate, London, W.
Eagle, Frederick, Barum House, Queen-street, Henley-on-Thames.
Eardley, Lady, 4, Lancaster-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Earle, Mrs. C. W., 5, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Edelsten, John A., 31, Bold-street, Warrington.
Egerton, Miss Mary L., Whitwell Hall, York.
Elder, Frederick, 21, Cleveland-gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Elder, Mrs., 38, Hyde Park Gardens, London, W.
Elliot, Gilbert, 10, Hanover-square, London, W.
610 Schedule of Members and Associates.
Elliot, Mrs. Minto, 7, George-street, Hanover-square, W.
Elliot, Miss, Sandecotes, Parkstone, Dorset.
Elliott, Sir Charles Alfred, K.C.S.I., LL.B., Calcutta.
Elliott, Rev. W. A., 54, Kirkgate, Shipley, Yorkshire.
Ellis, John Edward, M.P., 40, Pont-street, London, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs. Robert, 4, Rylett-road, Ravenscourt Park, W.
Ellison, Rev. John H., M.A., 4, Warwick-square, London, S.W.
Elton, Oliver, M.A., 58, Flanders-road, Bedford Park, W.
Elvey, Miss Mary M., Finborough-road,West Brorapton, London, S.W.
Elworthy, Arthur K., Foxdown, Wellington, Somerset.
Elwyn, Rev. Canon, M.A, Master's Lodge, Charterhouse, London.
Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Dulwich, London, S.E.
Ermacora, Dr. G. B., Padua, Italy.
Esterhasy Count Michel, Cseklesz, Pressburg County, Hungary.
Eustace, Miss Grace, Castlemore, Tullow, co. Carlow, Ireland.
Evans, Kirkham, Adelaide, South Australia.
Eves, Mrs. Charles T., Brook's Lodge, The Park, Cheltenham.
Fagan, Mrs. L. M., 56, Russell-square, London, W.C.
Falcke, Dudley C, 5, Pump-court, Temple, London, E.O.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Instituto Tecnik, Alessandria.
Farncombe, George Richard, B.A., 40, Belgrave-street, Birmingham.
Farrer, The Lady, Abinger Hall, Dorking.
Feilding, The Lady Louisa, 23, Princes-gate, London, S.W.
Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5, John-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Fielding, Mrs., 19, Wilton-place, London, S.W.
Fielding, Mrs. T. M., 5, Ailsa-park, Twickenham.
Finch, H. Wynne, Junr., Post Office, Johannesburg, South Africa.
♦Finzi, Dr. George, 11, Monte di Pieta, Milan.
Fisher, Rev. J. Hartman, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas.
FitzGerald,DesmondG., M.S.T.E.,94, Loughborough-rd., Brixton, S.W.
Fletcher, Mrs. K. R., The Orchard, Buckland, near Betchworth,Surrey.
Florence, Ernest B., 33, Redcliffe-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Flynt, William Garnett, 7, Walmer-road, Birkdale Park, Southport.
Ford, Mrs. Gerard, 7, Mandeville-place, London, W.
Forrester, Mrs., Gavell House, Kilsyth, N.B.
Fort, Charles Leyland, B.A., Alderbury House, Salisbury.
Foster, Gerald H., 5, Cleveland-terrace, Hyde Park, W.
Fountain, Alfred, The Elms, Cornwall-road, Uxbridge.
Fox, St. George Lane, Traveller's Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W.
Fraser, Col. A. T., R.E., Bellary, Madras Presidency.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C.,Belgrave Mansions, Grosvenor-gdns., S.W.
Freemann, Rev. H. B., M.A., St. Anne's Rectory, 28, Soho-square, W.
Fry, Lewis George, 13, Thurlow-road, Hampstead, N.W.
Fry, Oliver A., M.A., 141, Portsdown-road, Maida-vale, London, W.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 611
Fry, R. E., B.A., 1, Palace Houses, Bayswater Hill, London, W.
♦Fryer, Rev. A. T., 13, Dumfries-place, Cardiff.
Furnivall, Percy, 34, Adelaide-road, London, N.W.
Galloway, The Countess of, 17, Upper Grosvenor-street, W.
Gardiner, Rev. Edward R., M.A., Fawley Vicarage, Wantage.
Gardner, Mrs. Ernest, c/o Miss Wilson, 33, Ladbroke-square, W.
Garner, Edwin T., Glendale, Alexandra-road, Selhurst, Surrey.
Garrard, Mrs., 8, Kensington-court, London, W.
Garth, Henry, M.B., CM. (Edin.), 4, Harrington-street, Calcutta.
Gaussen, Mrs. L. D., Marton, Basechurch, Salop.
Gell,H.W.,M.A.,M.D. (Oxon),M.R.C.S.,36,Hyde Park Sq.,London,W.
Ghin, Professor Francesco, S. Barnaba, Venice.
Ghose, N. N., the Indian Nation Office, 43, Bancharam Unkoor's-lane,
Calcutta.
Gibotteau, Aime, M.D., Villa Bearnaise, Biarritz.
Gibson, Miss M. E., 20, George-square, Edinburgh.
Gittermann, Rudolph C, Odessa, Russia.
Glardon, Rev. Auguste, Tour de Peilz, Vaud, Switzerland.
Glover, John J. T., 124, Stephen's Green, W., Dublin.
Godfrey, Mrs., c/o Col. C.W. Godfrey, Bombay StaffCorps, Poona, India.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., M.A., Lambourne Rectory, Romford.
J Goodier, Miss B. M., Edinscate, Disley, Cheshire.
Goodman, Louis H., Bertram House, 170, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
♦Goodrich-Freer, Miss, Holy Trinity Vicarage, Paddington, W.
Gordigiani, Edward, 50, Via Degli Alfani, Florence.
Goring, Lady, Strettington, Chichester.
Gover, John M., LL.D., 5, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Govett, The Ven. Archdeacon, M.A., Gibraltar.
Graham, Henry R., 8, Marble Arch, London, W.
Graham, J. W., B.A., Meadowside, Heald-place, Rusholme, Manchester.
Graham, William W., 4, Elm-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Gray,EdWardW.lSurGe0n-CaPtain,c/oMessrs.Holt,17,Whitehall,S.W.
Green, C. T., M R.C.S., L.R.CP. (Lond.), 33, Grange-mt., Birkenhead.
Green, Miss Marian, The High School, Spring Mount, Blackburn.
Greener, W. O., 2, Kent Villas, Ealing.
Greig, Rev. David, M.A., Cottenham Rector}', Cambridge.
Grier, Captain George R., Leonardstone House, Neyland, Wales.
Griffith, Miss E. C, 37, York-street, Portman-square, London, W.
Grifpith, Mrs. Robert W., The Old House, Llandaff.
Grifpiths, Joseph, M.D., F.R.C.S., 4, Kings'-parade, Cambridge.
Grignon, Rev. William S., M.A., Essenden, Hatfield, Herts.
Grogan, Miss, 18, Ridgmount-gardens, London, W.C.
Groom, Ernest, Dothill Park, Wellington, Salop.
♦Grubb, Edward, M.A., 5, 22, Crosby-road, Birkdale, Southport.
612 Schedule of Members and Associates.
Grdbbe, Hubert H., Shallow, Ongar, Essex.
Gudgeon, James, Stowmarket.
Guest, A. H., L.R.CP.E.,Westbourne, Wualley-range, Manchester.
Gunn, Mrs., 36, George-lane, Lewisham, S.E.
Gunton, Rev. Charles F., M.A., Farlam Vicarage, Milton, Carlisle.
Gunton, Rev. F., M.A., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Gurney, Rev. Alfred, M.A.,St. Barnabas' Parsonage, Phnlico, S.W.
Gu«ney,Rev. F., M. A., St. John'sCottage, BoveyTracey, NewtonAbbot.
Gurney, Henry G., 3, Regent-street, London, W.
Gurney, Mrs. Russell, 3, Orme-square, London, W.
Hackett, James F., B.A , 71, King William-street, Adelaide, Australia
Haggard, John G-, H.B.M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
Haig, Mrs. C. E., Orchardwood, Ascot Heath, Berks.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E., 3, Pitt-street, Campden Hill, W.
Hall, Charles S., The Borough Chambers, Bournemouth.
Hall, George, M.D., CM. Edin., Wyndham Lodge, Milford, Surrey.
Hall, Wilfred, 9, Prior's-terrace, Tynemouth.
Hall, Mrs., 3, St. Alban's-road, Kensington, London, W.
Hamilton, Colonel G. Rowan, 8, Connaught-street, London, W.
Hannah, Robert, 82, Addison-road, Kensington, W.
HAn8P0rd, Charles, 3, Alexandra-terrace, Dorchester.
Harding, G. Palmer, Trouville, France.
Hargrave, Joseph G., The Grange, Chorlton-cum-Hardy, Manchester.
Hargreaves, Miss, 69, Alexandra-road, Southport
Harpur, Rev. George, B.A., Clifton Vicarage, Newark.
Hartley, Lieut. Colonel J., LL.D., D.L., The Old Downs, Hartley,
near Longneld, Kent.
Hartshorn, Miss C, c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley and Co., London, EC.
Haslam, Prof., M.A., St. Barbe, Riccarton, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Hastie, Miss, 11, Ashburn-place, Cromwell-road, S.W.
Haweis, Miss, 127, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Hay, The Hon. Mrs. Alistair, 8, Upper Belgrave-street, London, S.W.
Hayes, Frederick W., 12, Westcroft-square, Ravenscourt Park, W.
♦Hayes, Joseph W., 1, George's-street, Enniscorthy.
Hayward, Miss Grace G., 25, St. George's Road, Kilburn, N.W.
Hayward, M. Cecil, Caius College, Cambridge.
Heape, Fred. W., Toorak, Oxton, Cheshire.
Heard, Richard, 37, York-place, Portman-square, London, W.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, 55, Sutherland-avenue, Maida-vale, W.
Henley, Hon. Ernest, Watford Court, Rugby.
Henniker-Major, The Hon. Mary, 4, Berkeley-street, Piccadilly, W.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1, Argyll villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert, Hon. Auberon, M.A., Burley, Ringwood, Hants.
Herringham, Mrs., 22, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 613
Hewetson, H. Bendelack, F.L.S., M.R.CS., 11, Hanover-sq.,
Leeds.
Hibbs, Reginald R., 13, St. Lawrence-road, North Kensington, W.
Hichens, Rev. Thomas S., Guilsborough Vicarage, Northampton.
Hildyard, F.W., St. Nicholas Club, 81a, QueenVictoria-st., London, E.C.
Hill, Clement Hugh, 63, Church-road, St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Hill, Miss E. D., Instowe, Malvern-road, Cheltenham.
Hill, Henry, The Park, Nottingham.
Hill, W. Scott, 47, Manor-place, Edinburgh.
Hill-Tout, Charles, Trinity College, Vancouver, B.C.
Hills, Mrs., Corby Castle, Carlisle.
Hodding, Miss, Selwood House, Barnard's Cross, Salisbury.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Hogg, Miss A. M. M., Berry Head House, Brixham.
Hogg, Henry R., M.A., Melbourne Club, Melbourne, Australia.
Hole, Rev. Donald, A.K.C., 2, Busby-place, Camden-road, N.W.
Holland, Hon. Lionel R., M.P., B.A., 58, Conduit-street, W.
Holland, Miss, Niddry Lod?e, Campden Hill, London, W.
Hollond, John R., M.A., Wonham, Dampton, Devon.
Holstein, Madame Alexandra de, 29, Avenue de Wagram, Paris.
Hood, H. J., M.A., 115, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
-- Hood, Mrs., 115, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Hooper, Gordon, L.D.S.R.C.S., 21, New Cavendish-st., Harley-st., W.
Hooper, Mrs. Pitman, 8, Endsleigh-street, Tavistock-square, W.C.
Hopkinson, Professor Alfred, M.A., B.C.L., The Lodge, 32, Herne
Hill, London, S.E.
Hopps, John Page, Oak Tree House, South Norwood Hill, London, S.E.
Horne, Alderson, Ditton-place, Balcombe, Sussex.
Hotham, Miss C. E., 56, Belgrave-road, London, S.W.
Howard, The Lady Marel, Greystoke Castle, Penrith.
Howe, E. R. J. Gambier, 7, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Hubbe-Schleiden, Dr. J. U., Steglitz, near Berlin.
Huddleston, Mrs., Llwynderw, Welshpool, Montgomeryshire.
Hudson, Norman W., B.A., Pebble HOI, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Hughes, Major H. M., F.R.G.S., Rose Bank, Marden Park, Caterham
Valley, Surrey.
Hughes, Mrs., Gwynnondale, Llanarthney, R.S.O., Carmarthenshire.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., B.Sc. (Lond.), The Pines,Worcester Pk.,Surrey.
Humfrey, Miss L. R., 8, Hyde Park Mansions, London, W.
Humphreys, Arthur Lee, 187, Piccadilly, London, W.
Hunter, Thomas, Arnold House, Rugby.
Hutchins, D. E., Conservator of Forests, Cape Town.
Hutchinson, F.W. H., M.A., Brooklands House, Avenue, Cambridge.
Hutchison, Rev. R.P., M.A., Martyr Worthy Rectory, Winchester.
614 Schedule of Members and Associates.
Inpield, H. I., 130, North-street, Brighton.
Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingham, Percy B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Inne8, Lady, Winslow, Darling Point, Sydney, New South Wales.
Irving, Lewis A., Surgeon-Major, Govt. House, Ganesh Khind, Bombay.
Isaachsen, Rev. Thorveld E., 44, Boompjes, Rotterdam.
Jackson, Rev. F., The Vicarage, Newton-upon-Rawcliffe, Pickering.
Jackson, William EL, M.A., F.L.S., Pen Wartha, Weston-super-Mare.
Jackson, Miss E. R.,S. Hilda's School, Clifton-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
James, Ernest C. P., Wellington Club, Grosvenor-place, London, S.W.
Jameson, F., 6, Westbourne Park-villas, London, W.
Jeafpreson, Rev.H. H.,M A., 115, Clifton Hill, St.John's Wood, N. W.
Jebb, Rev. H. Gladwyn, M.A., Firbeck Hall, Rotherham.
Jebb, Mrs., Springfield, Newnham, Cambridge.
Jebb, Miss S. G., Overton, Lansdowne-road, Bournemouth.
Jeffreys, Mrs., Glandyfi Castle, Glandovey, R.S.O., North Wales.
♦Jenkins, E. Vaughan, Energlyn, 38, St. Margaret's-road, Oxford.
Jenkinson, Mrs. F. R. G., 112, Sloane-street, London, S.W.
Jennings, Mrs., 16, Lower Sloane-street, S.W.
Jeune, Lady, 37, Wimpole-street, London, W.
Johnes, Mrs., Dolaucothy, Llanwrda R.S.O., South Wales.
Johnson, Miss Alice, Llandaff House, Cambridge.
Johnson, Rev. Wayland, LL.D., Camden, Delaware, U.S.A.
Johnston, Miss M. F., 22, Earl's Court-square, S.W.
Jones, Captain Henry Michael, V.C., H.B.M. Legation, Lima, Peru.
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
Jones, Professor P., 64, Via Sta- Lucia, Naples.
JonES,T.R.,M.R.C.S.Lond.,L.R.C.P.I.,L.MI.,26,Lorne-rd.,Birkenhead.
Joyce, Samuel, Ashridge, Park-road, Alexander Park, Manchester.
Kane, J. G. Auriol, Sloperton Lodge, Kingstown, co. Dublin.
Kay, H. A., 71, Maida-vale, London, W.
Kearne, Percy, 37, Avonmore-gardens, West Kensington, W.
Keene, Rev. James B., M.A., The Rectory, Navan, co. Meath.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, M.A., 26, Vanbrugh-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Kelso, Commander, R.N., Horkesby Park, Colchester.
Kenmare, The Countess of, Killarney House, Killarney.
Ker, C. B., M.D., Hadley House, Cheltenham.
Kerr, George, M.A., M.B., 6, St. Colme-street, Edinburgh.
*Keulemans, J. G., 13, York-terrace, Brewery-road, Southend.
Kingsbury, George C, M.D., 3, Brighton-parade, Blackpool.
Kingston, H. D. R., M.B., Stormont Lodge, Willesden, N.W.
♦Kirk, Joseph, 9, Vicarage-park, Plumstead, Kent.
Knowles, Ernest, Inglehurst Park-road, Bolton-le-Moors.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 615
Knox, Nathaniel A., Adelaide Club, Adelaide, South Australia.
Knutsford, The Lady, 75, Eaton-square, London, S.W.
Kothen, Baron Axel von, 27, Mikealsgatan, Helsingfors, Finland.
Lach-Szyrma, Rev.W.S., M.A., F.R.H.S.,Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford.
Lafone, A. W., M.P., Springfield. Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Laing, R.M.,M.A.,B.Sc.,Boys'High School, Christchurch.New Zealand.
Lamplugh, Rev. David, M.A., Yalding Vicarage, Maidstone.
Lancaster, Ernest Le C, M. B., Winchester House, Swansea.
Laurie, Prof. H., LL.D., President of the Victorian Society for
Psychical Research, Melbourne.
Leadam, Isaac S., 117, St. George's-square, S.W.
Leaf, Arthur H., 9, St. Paul's Churchyard, London, E.C.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough.
Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6, Sussex-place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Leaf, Mrs. Walter, 6, Sussex-place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Lee, Rev. W. T., 4, Edith-terrace, Mount Gold road, Plymouth.
Lees, Lieut. W. E., Royal Engineers, R.A. and R.E. Mess, Malta.
Leete, Miss, 2, Earl's Court-gardens, London, S.W.
Legge, The Lady Frances, Woodsome, Huddersfield.
Leigh, W. Austen, M.A., 2, Norfolk-crescent, Hyde Park, London, W.
Lewes, Lieut-Colonel G.A., 19, R.M.C. Terrace, Camberley, Surrey.
'.Lewis, C. W. Mansel, Stradey Castle, Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Leycester, Mrs., 6, Cheyne-walk, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Leyharie, P. G., 5, Rue des Petits Champs, Paris.
Librarian of the Public Library, Adelaide, South Australia.
Librarian, School of Arts, Brisbane, Queensland.
Librarian of the Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, General Assembly Library, Wellington, New Zealand.
Limond, Miss Catherine, 15, Eaton-terrace, London, S.W.
Linden, Miss Olga, 3, Versailles Road, Anerley, S.E.
Lindsay, Miss Beatrice, Bohemia, Port St. Mary, Isle of Man.
Lindsay, Robert, L.R.C.S., M.B., 41, Via del Babinno, Rome.
Lloyd, Major Francis, 22, Cadogan-square, London, S.W.
Lloyd, Otho Holland, Hotel du Pare, Glion sur Montreux, Switzerland
Lodge, Professor O. J., D.Sc, F.R.S., 2, Grove-park, Liverpool
Lodge, Robert, Loxford Grove Park, Wanstead.
Loewe, Hugo L., 3, Southampton-street, London, W.C.
Lord, Mrs. Robert, Newstead, Albert-road, Bolton, Lancashire.
Lovell, Reginald H., 449, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Lucas, Mrs. E. A., Clareville, co. Galway.
Lyall, Miss Frances E., 1, Priory-parade, Cheltenham.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Arthur, The Vicarage, Eccles, Manchester.
Lyttelton, Sybella Lady, 9, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Macalister, Professor A., M.D., F.R.S., Torrisdale, Cambridge.
616 Schedule of Members and Associates.
MacColl, Rev. Canon Malcolm, M.A., Devonshire Club, St.
James's, S.W.
♦Macdonald, Rev. J. A., Heswall, Cheshire.
Mackay, George D., Inveralmond, Cramond, Midlothian, N.B.
Macky, Dr., 4, Curzon-street, Mayfair. W.
Maitland, Edward, B.A., 1, Studio-buildings, Thurloe-square, S.W.
Major, Albert, 77, Clapham-road, London, S.W.
Malden, William E. P., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Manders, H., F.R.CS., Agincourt House, Yorktown, Farnborough. x
Mangin, Marcet, 130, Boulevard Haussmann, Paris.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, M.A., Grange House, Chigwell, Essex.
Mantell, Miss Bertha, 5, South Bank-terrace, Surbiton.
Marjoribanks, Lady, Tillmouth Park, Cornhill-on-Tweed, Northumber
land.
Marshall, Arthur, 13, Belsize-avenue, London, N.W.
Marshall, Henry William, Quorn, South Australia.
Marshall, Thomas, Leeds Library, Commercial-street, Leeds.
Marshall, William Cecil, M.A., 28, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78, Vanbrugh-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Martin, Miss A. E., 34, Elvaston-place, Queen's Gate, S.W.
Martin, Miss Florence R., 65, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, 17, Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W. ^
Martinez, Mrs., 13b, Hyde Park-mansions, London, W.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Chief Court, Lahore, India.
Mason, Miss M. H., Morton Hall, Retford, Notts.
Massey, Charles C, 124, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Mathews,G.B., B.A. ,9, Menai View-terrace,UpperBangor,North Wales.
Matthews, Frank H., 22, Wentworth-street, Bolton, Lancashire.
Maud, Miss Constance, Sanderstead Rectory, near Croydon.
Maxwell, Joseph, 36, Rue Petiniaud Beaupeyrat, Limoges, France.
Mayor, R. G., King's College, Cambridge.
McAlpine, Mrs., Ardenconnel-row, near Helensburgh, N.B.
McHugh, P. A., M.P., Sligo.
McKerlie, Miss Helen G., Monkstown, co. Dublin. >
McLaren, Mrs. C, 45, Harrington-gardens, London, S.W.
McLaughlin, E. N., Trinity Villa, Spanish Town, Jamaica.
McNeily, A. J. W., Q.C., Supreme Court, St. John's, Newfoundland.
Melville, Andrew P., 5, West Castle-road, Merchiston, Edinburgh.
Merrilees, J. F., M.D., Auburn, Victoria.
Micklethwait, Richard K., Ardsley House, Barnsley.
Milford, The Lady, 16, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Miller, Mrs. W. Pitt, Merlewood, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Mills, Thomas E., Cabra Parade, Dublin.
Mitchell, Mrs. C. W., 195, Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 617
Mitchiner, J. H., Acacias, Barham Road, South Croydon.
Molesworth, Sir Guilford L., K.C.I.E., Simla, India.
Money, Colonel Gerard Noel, C.B., F.R.G.S.
Money-Coutts, Francis Burdett, Walsingham House, Piccadilly,W.
Monteagle, The Lohd, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, co. Limerick.
Montgomery, Mrs., 9, Hartley-road, Exmouth.
Mooraj, Fazal G., Cooper's-hill, Staines.
Moore, Lieut.-General Montgomery, Bellevue, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Mordan, Miss C. E., 15, Queen-square, W.C.
Morgan, Rev. Edward, B.A., Penmark Vicarage, Cowbridge.
Morison, Mrs. Miller, 3, Douglas-crescent, Edinburgh.
Morison, Theodore, M.A., Aligarh, N.W.P., India.
Moul, Mrs., 3, Prince's Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Moulton, Mrs. F. A., c/o Credit Lyonnais, 19, Boulevard des Italiennes,
Paris.
Mount-Temple, The Lady, Babbacombe Cliff, Torquay.
Moynihan, B. G.A., M.B. (Lond.), The General Infirmary, Leeds. -
Munro, Henry Acland, B.A., Guy's Hospital, S.E.
Munthe, Dr., 26, Piazza di Spagna, Rome.
Murray, Donald, M.A., Sydney Morninq Herald Office, Sydney,N.S.W.
Murray, Professor Geo. G. Aime,B.A.,The University, Glasgow, N.B.
Murray, Mrs. G. A., 10, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Murray, Colonel Hugh H., R.A., 28, Gower-street, London, W.C.
Murray, R. M., M.A., M.B., M.R.O.P.(Edin.), 10, Hope-st., Edinburgh.
Murray, Sydney J., 70, Cecile-park, Crouch Hill, London, N.
Murray, T. Douglas, Clewer Lodge, Windsor.
Murray-Aynsley, Mrs., Great Brampton, near Hereford.
Muse, Mrs. Eva S., Santa Fé, New Mexico, U.S.A.
Myers, Mrs., Brandon House, Cheltenham.
Myers, Frederic W. H., M.A., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Mylne, Mrs., 83, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Nathan, S. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Neate, Percy John, F.G.S., M.M.E., 268, High-street, Rochester.
Nelson, Rev. George, LLD., St. Michael'sVicarage, Bromley, Poplar, E.
Nelson, Mrs. R. A., Redbourne, East Molesey Park, Surrey.
Neville, Francis Henry, M.A., Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.
Newbery, J., 3, Bedford-place, Brighton.
Newbold, Miss A., 4, Artillery-buildings, Victoria-street, S.W.
Newmann, Oscar P., 84, Newman-street, London, W.
Newsom, John, The American Trading Company, Yokohama, Japan.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, East Hampton, Suffolk Co., New York, U.S.A.
Nicholl, Iltyd B., The Ham, Cowbridge, South Wales.
Nicholls, Rev. T. B., M.A., St. Oswald's College, Tyuemouth.
618 Schedule of Members and Associates.
Nicholson, Sib Charles, Bart., D.C.L., LL.D., M.D., The Grange,
Totteridge, Herts.
Nicolson, Sir A., K.C.I.E., C.M.G., British Legation, Tangier,
Morocco, Africa.
♦Nisbet, E. T., 17, Latimer-street, Tynemouth.
Noel-Cox, Herbert L. N., 2, Edinburgh Mansions, Victoria-st., S.W.
Norris, William Alfred, Holmwood Lodge, Laton-road, Hastings.
Northcote, Hon. Hugh Oliver, The Hyde, Luton.
Nutter, Mrs., Fairseat, Wrotham, Kent. >
Oakeley, Miss H. D., 97, Warwick-road, Earl's Court, S.W.
Oates, P. Edward, St. Edmunds, Ware.
♦Ochorowicz, Dr. J., 23, Rue Vladimir, Warsaw.
Ogilvie, G. M., c/o Messrs. H. S. King and Co., 45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Oman, Mrs., St. Philip's Lodge, Painswick-road, Cheltenham.
Oman, Charles W. O, M.A., All Souls' College, Oxford.
O'Neill, Gregory L., M.B., 291, Elizabeth-st., Sydney,New South Wales.
Opifi, Edward A. D., J.P., Pirie-street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Ozanne, Major Charles H., 8, Victoria-road, Old Charlton, S.E.
Pace, Miss E. M., M.B. (London), 7, Elmbank-street, Glasgow.
Pack-Beresford, Denis R., Fenagh House, Bagnalstown, Co. Carlow.
Pagan, Miss C, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
Paget, Lady, Villa Bellosguardo, Florence. t|
Palmer, Miss, 3, Carlisle-place, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Panton, D. Morrieson, Melrose, Porus P.O., Jamaica, W.I.
Park, Miss Margaret L. M., 23, Mecklenburgh-square, W.C.
Parkes, R. J., 2, Church-street, Southport, Lancashire.
Passingham, Mrs., Fermoyle, Castle Gregory, Co. Kerry.
Pennington, Mrs., c/o William Watson & Co., 28, Apollo-st., Bombay.
Percival, Mrs., 2, Southwick Place, London, W.
Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Islands.
Perry, E. G, M.D., M.A., Superintendent's House, Guy's Hospital, S.E.
Pethybridge, Walter, 3b, Clarendon-road, Clapham Rise, S.W.
PetrovO-Solovovo, Michael. 38, Serghievskaia, St. Petersburg.
Phillimore, R. C, 86, Eaton-place, London, S.W. .
Phillips, Rev. J. T., 147, Beaufort-hill, Beaufort, Mon.
Phillipps, Mrs. March, Edmonstone House, Cheltenham.
Phipps, Miss, Knebworth House, Stevenage, Herts.
Pickering, James R., A.I.E.E., 5, Carew-road, Thornton Heath,
Pilcher, Giles T., 29, Dawson-place, London, W.
Plenderleith, William, 126, Stroud Green-road, Finsbury Park, N.
Podmore, Frank, M.A., 32, Well-walk, Hampstead, N.W.
Pollock, Miss, 50, Weymouth-street, London, W.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs., 2, Wilton-terrace, Belgrave-square, S.W.
Ponsonby, Miss, Rye Vale, Leixlip, co. Kildare.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 619
Pontifex, Miss, 72, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Pope, George H., M.A., B.C.L., Merchants' Hall, Bristol.
Portal, Miss V., 8, Beaufort-gardens, London, S.W.
Porter, Mrs., Highbury Grange, Portarlington-road, Bournemouth, W.
Porter, Miss, 16, Bussell-square, London, W.C.
Portsmouth, The Countess op, 2, Abbey-gardens, Westminster, S.W.
Postgate, Professor J. P., Litt.D., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Powell, Miss Constance M., 5, Campden Hill-square, London, W.
Powell, George Thompson, Rotherwood, Sydenham Hill, S.E.
Powles, Lewis Charles, M.A., 9, Queen's Gate-place, London, S.W.
Powys, Hon. Mrs. Fox, 29, Albion-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Praed, Mrs. Campbell, 16, Talbot-square, Hyde Park, London, W.
Pribitkop, V., 67, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Prickett, Miss L. M., Ross Cottage, Fortune Gate-road, Harlesden.
Prothero, Mrs., 2, Eton-terrace, Edinburgh.
Pullen, Miss, Milton View, Elsecar, Barnsley, Yorkshire.
Pumphrey, Mrs., Shotley Bridge, co. Durham.
Purdie, Mrs., 27, Palace-court, London, W.
Pye, William A., 25, Mark-lane, London, E.C.
Pym, Mrs. Angela, Bankside, Lunham-road, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Radnor, The Countess op, 52, Grosvenor-street, London, W.
' Raleigh, Walter A., M.A., 27, Ladbroke-road, London, W.
Ramsay, Professor William, Ph.D., F.R.S., 12, Arundel-gardens, W.
Ramsay, Lady, 64, Cadogan-gardens, London, S.W.
Raper, R. W., M.A., Trinity College, Oxford.
Rathbone, Mrs., Green Bank, Liverpool.
Raupert, Rev. J. G. F., 30, Belsize-square, London, N.W.
Rayleigh, Clara Lady, 90, Onslow-gardens, London, S.W.
Reade, Herbert V., 73, Jermyn-street, London, S.W.
Reichel, Principal H. R., M.A., University College, Bangor.
Reynolds, Colonel H. C, Thorncliffe, Cheltenham.
Reynolds, Mrs., Millington House, Thelwall, near Warrington.
Richardson, Arthur, Ph.D , 22, Meridian-place, Clifton, Bristol.
Richardson, Frederic William, F.C.S., 2, Farcliffe-place, Bradford.
Richardson, Miss J., 72, Hamilton-terrace, London, N.W.
Richardson, Robert E., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Riddiford, Mrs. W. H., Chalfont, Burnwood, near Gloucester.
Ridley, Frank C, 17, Margaret-street, London, W.
Ridley, Henry N., M.A., F.L.S., 17, Margaret^street, London, W.
Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham-gardens, London, N.W.
Rigg, Thomas S. J.,B.A.,General Post Office, Sydney, New South Wales.
Robb, Mrs., 46, Rutland Gate, London, S.W.
Roberts, William Johnson, 146, Pembroke-road, Dublin.
Roberts, Rev. W. W 39 Addison-gardens, Kensington, W.
620 Schedule of Members and Associates.
Robertson, C. Lockhart, M.D., Guns Green,The Drive,Wimbledon.
Robertson, George M., M.B., Royal Asylum, Morningside, Edinburgh.
Robertson, Mrs., Nether Scale Hall, Ashby-de-la-Zouch.
Robertson, Miss N., 5, Adelaide-square, Windsor.
Robertson-Macdonald,Mrs., 35,Tregunter-rd.,South Kensington, S.W.
Robin, Percy A., B.A., George-street, Parkside, Adelaide, Australia.
Robinson, Lady, 73, Chester-square, London, S.W.
Robinson, Dr. William Newman, Kadina, South Australia.
Roger, W. Wallace, 31, Tavistock-square, London, W.C.
♦Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose Villa, Church End, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Rev. E. H., M.A., Thames Ditton, Kingston-on-Thames.
Rogers, George F., M.D., London Hospital, Whitechapel-road, E.
Rogers, R. S., M.G, Finders-street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Ross, A. Gait, 7, Edinburgh-terrace, Victoria-road, London, W.
Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5, Hamilton-place, London, W.
Roxburgh, R., M.B., F.R.C.S.E., 1, Victoria-bdgs.,Weston-super-Mare.
Riicker, Professor A. W., F.R.S., Errington, Clapham Park, S.W.
Rushton, C. H, 7, Queen Elizabeth's-walk, Stoke Newington, N.
Russell, The Earl, Amberley Cottage, Maidenhead.
Russell, Mrs. Campbell, Golden Mead, Chislehurst.
Russell, Mrs. Henshaw, 23, Beulah hill, Norwood, S.E.
Russell, John, B.A., University Hall, Gordon-square, London, W.C.
Rylands, Thomas G., F.L.S., F.G.S., Highfields, Thelwall, near
Warrington.
Sajous, Charles E., M.D., 28, Rue de Madrid, Paris.
Salmond, Percy N, Captain 3rd Royal Scots, Eldermere, Ilkley.
Samaldas, Lalubhai, Chief Revenue Officer, Bhavnager, Bombay
Presidency, India.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Hayward's Heath.
Sams, Rev. George F., M.A., Emberton Rectory, Newport Pagnell.
Sands, Mrs. Mahlon, 40, Portland place, London, W.
Sanger, Charles Percy, Trinity College. Cambridge.
Saunders, Latimer Henry, Trevone House, Padstow.
Schram, Miss Lilian M.E., 178, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
Schreiber, Major, 27, Fopstone-road, Earl's Court, S.W.
Schuster, Miss, Cannizaro, Wimbledon, S.W.
Schware, Mrs. G. S., Rhodes, Middleton, Lancashire.
Scott, Sydney C, Hatherleigh, 28, The Avenue, Gipsy Hill, London.
Scripps, T. Cecil, 4, Drapt-rs'-gardens, London, E.C.
♦Scudamore, Mrs., 3, Tollington-park, Holloway, London, N.
Seilern, Count Charles, 23, Wolmersley-road, Stroud Green, N.
Sellin, Professor C. W., 5, Wrangelstrasse, Hoheluft, Hamburg.
Selous, Edmund, Wamil Hall, Mildenhall, Suffolk.
Seymour, Captain Edward H., R.N., 9, Ovington-square, S.W.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 621
Shadwell, Miss Blanche, Trewollack, Bodmin.
Shand, Alexander F., 1, Edwardes-place, Kensington, W.
Sharpe, J. M.A., Woodroffe, Portarlington-road, Bournemouth.
Sheavyn, Robert F., Long-street, Atherstone.
Sheridan, Mrs. Dudley, Russell House, 4, West Kensington-gardens,W.
♦Shield, Mrs., Bowers Gifford Rectory, Essex.
Shove, Miss E.,K.Q.C.P.I.,M.B.,25,St.Mark's-cres.,Regent'sPk.,N.W.
♦Shcfeldt, Dr. R.W.,SmithsonianInstitution,Washington,D.C,U.S.A.
Shuttleworth, John, Kenmare Bridge, by New Galloway, Kirkcud
brightshire, N.B.
Sidgwick, Arthur, M.A., 64, Woodstock-road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 29, Gloucester-square, London, W.
Sidgwick, Professor Henry, Newnham College, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Mrs. H., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Sims, F. Manley, F.R.C.S., 12, Hertford-street, Mayfair, W.
Sisley, Richard, M.B., Park-row, Knightsbridge, London, W.
Skefpington, Joseph B., M.A., LL.B., Downpatrick, co. Down, Ireland.
Skene, Miss F. M. F., 13, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Sloman, Samuel George, Junr., 39, West-street, Farnham.
Smith, Mrs. Apsley, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Smith, G. Albert, St. Ann's Well, Brighton.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Amble, Northumberland.
Smith, Rev. Canon H. B., M.A., Grange over Sands, Lancashire.
Smith, Henry Arthur, 1, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Smith, H. Barington, B.A., Government House, Calcutta.
Smith, John George, 29, Cadogan-terrace, London, S.W.
Smith, Miss J. M., Hyde Park Court, Albert Gate, London, W.
Smith, Martyn, Abberton Hall, Pershore.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson-place, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Smith, R. Morris, 3,715, Chestnut-street, W. Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Smith, R. Pearsall, 44, Grosvenor-road, London, S.W.
Smith, Rev. Canon R. Travers, B.D., Vicarage, Clyde-road, Dublin.
Smith, Wallace A., 34, Devonshire-street, Portland-place, London,W.
Smith, Mrs., Barnes Hall, Sheffield.
Snape, Mrs., Markland Hill, Heaton, Bolton.
Snow, Chester A., 712, Eighth-street, Washington, D.C., U.SA.
Solovioff, Wsevolod, 34. Nikolaievskaia St. Petersburgh.
Somerset, The Lady Henry, The Priory, Reigate.
Somerset, H. Somers, The Priory, Reigate.
Speer, Mrs. Stanhope, Fairholme, Ventnor, Isle of Wight.
Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Spencer, Miss Georgiana M., 25, York-street, Portman-square, W.
Sperling, Arthur, J.P., Lattenbury Hill, St. Ives, Hunts.
Spinks, Judge, Vernon, British Columbia.
2 x
622 Schedule of Members and Associates.
St. George, Mrs., 2, Jervis-place, Clonmel, Ireland.
Stainforth, Miss Emily, 15, Matheson-road, West Kensington, W.
Stanley, Henry M., DCL., LL.D.,M.P., 2, Richmond-terrace,S.W.
Stanway, Miss Emily, 17, Park-street, Taunton.
Stapley, Richard, 33, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.O.
Stapley, Mrs., 33, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Stead, William T., Cambridge House, Wimbledon, S.W.
Stearn, H. T., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Stephenson,SirAugustusK.,K.CB.,Q.C.,46,Ennismore-gdns,S.W. \
Stepney, Hon. Lady, 3, Chesham-street, London, S.W.
Stevenson, Andrew, M.A., 16, Warrender Park Crescent, Edinburgh.
Stevenson, George, Pamswick Lodge, Shurdington, Cheltenham.
Stewart, Mrs. Charlotte A., Largham, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Miss Susan, 89, Philbeach-gardens, London, S.W.
Stirling, J. M. Mobries, Gogar House, Stirling, N.B.
Stout, George F., M.A„ St. John's College, Cambridge.
Sturges, Mrs. William, 32, Charles-street, Berkeley-sq., London, W.
Sturgis, Julian, M.A., 2, Gloucester-place, Portman-sq., London, W.
♦Sugden, Rev. E. H., B.A., B.Sc., Bradford, Yorkshire.
Summerson, Samuel J., Haughton-le-Skerne, Darlington.
Swan, C. A., 10, Delamere-street, London, S.W.
Swanwick, Miss Anna, 23, Cumberland-terrace, London, N.W. *
Sweeting, Richard, D.H., B.A., D.P.H., 6, Hereford Mansions, Here
ford-road, Bayswater, W.
Swire, Major Henry, 2, Nightingale-place, Woolwich.
Swire, Commander Herbert, R.N., H.M. Coastguard, Berwick.
Symons, Miss Jessie H., 91, Wigmore-street, London, W.
Synge, Rev. F., M.A., 1, Daleham-gardens, South Hampstead, N.W.
Tancred, Mrs. Clement, 2, Princes' Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Talbot, The Lady Edmund, 26, Curzon-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Tanner, Ernest, Hazlehurst, Penarth.
Tanner, Slingsby, 104b, Mount-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Tattersall, James Granville, Hanover-square Club, London, W.
Tattersall, Robert W., 31, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford. 4
Tattersall, Wm., 90, High-street, Oxford.
Taunton, Mrs. R. H., Brook Vale, Witton, near Birmingham.
Taxis, The Princess, Grosse Mohrengasse, Vienna.
Taylor,Rev. Arnold D., B.A., Churchstanton Rectory,Honiton, Devon.
Taylor, Rev. Charles J., M.A., The Larches, Banstead, Surrey.
Taylor, Miss Edith, 9, Milner-square, London, W.
Taylor, Lieut.-Col. G. L. Le M., Minsterworth, Old Bath-road,
Cheltenham.
Tebb, A. E., M.D., 9, Langland-place, Finchley-road, Hampstead, N.W.
Tebb, Mrs., Rede Hall, near Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 623
Thackeray, Mrs. W. G., 32, Kidbrooke Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Thatcher, Miss, 36, Devonshire-street, Portland-place, London, W.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville-park, Lewisham, S.E.
Thomas, A. C, Korumburra, Gippsland, Victoria, Australia.
Thomas, Joseph William, F.I.C.F.CS., Drumpellier, Gloucester.
Thompson, I. C, F.L.S., F.R.M.S., Woodstock, Waverley-rd., Liverpool.
Thomson, Prof. J. J., M.A., F.R.S., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Thurburn, Mrs., Kirkfell, Highland-road, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Thurstan, F.W., M.A., Hertford Lodge, Albert-bridge, Battersea, S.W.
Tooth, Rev. Arthur, M.A., Woodside, Croydon.
Traherne, Mrs., Coedriglan Park, Cardiff.
Trench, J. Townsend, J.P., Kenmare, Ireland.
Trevor, Rev. Thomas Warren, M.A., Penmon Vicarage, Beaumaris.
Tuckey, C Lloyd, M.D., 33, Green-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Tuker, Miss Mildred A.R., 4, Oxford and Cambridge Mansions, N.W.
Turnill, Henry, Heathside, Crayford, Kent.
Tweedale, Mrs., Milton Hall, Cambridgeshire.
Tweedie, David M, Adelaide, South Australia.
Tyrer, Mrs. W., Woodleigh, Prescot.
Underwood, Rev. Canon C. W., M.A., Histon Vicarage, Cambridge.
Vacher, William H., 54, Addison Mansions, Kensington, S.W.
Vailati, Professor Giovanni, Crema, Italy.
Vandeleur, Major General J. O., C.B., 26, Coventry-st., London,'W.
Van Eeden, Frederick, M.D., Bussum, Holland.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 251, Keisersgracht, Amsterdam.
Venman, Hezekiah, 20, Pimlico-road, London, S.W.
Venn, J., D.Sc., F.R.S., Caius College, Cambridge.
Verrall, Mrs., Selwyn-gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., 26, Gloucester-place, Brighton.
Vian-Williams, Rev. H., 3, Waterloo-place, North Shields.
Vicars, G. R., M.D., Branston, Lincoln.
Vickers, Mrs., 26, Queen's Gate-gardens, London, S.W.
Villamarina, The Marchesa di, Palazza Reale, Quirinale, Rome,
i Vincent, Maria Lady, Villa Flora, Cannes, France.
Vincent, R. Harry, Fernbank, Leytonstone, N.E.
Vores, Arthur, M.R.C.S., 8, Mansfield-street, Cavendish-square, W.
Walford, Col. Neville L., R.A., 1, Ashburn-place, London, S.W.
Walker, Mrs. Emma, 42, Kingsnorth-gardens, Folkestone.
Walker, Mrs. Stewart, Shrewsbury House, Oxton, Cheshire.
Wall, Miss M. M., Pioneer Club, 22, Bruton-street, Berkeley-square,W.
Wallace, Abraham, M.D., 39, Harley-street, London, W.
Wallop, Rev. Edward, Missionary Coll., Burgh le Marsh, R.S.O., Lino.
Warburton, Rev. W. T., MA., The Vicarage, Rock Ferry, Birkenhead.
Ward, Wilfrid, Molescroft, Eastbourne.
2x2
624 /Schedule of Members and Associates.
Ward, The Hon. Miss, Castle Ward, Downpatrick.
Wardeop, Mrs., 10, Lower Belgrave-street, Eaton-square, S.W.
Warrand, Mrs., Bught, Inverness, N.B.
Warter, M rs. Tatham, Longden Manor, Pontesford, Salop.
Wassell, H. A., F.R.A.S.,Addenbrook Villa,01d Swinford.Stourbridge.
Waterhouse,C.H.,M.D.,56, KarlLudwig Strasse,Ober-Dobling,Vienna.
Watson, Rev. John, M.A., 18, Sefton Drive, Liverpool.
Watson, Mrs. W. C, 39, Gloucester-square, London, W.
Webber-Smith, Colonel James, 27, Shaftesbury-avenue, London, W.
Webb, Godfrey, 13, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Wedd, N, M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Welldon, Rev. J. E. C, M.A., Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Wells, Edmund P., C.E., 26, Cambridge-gardens, N. Kensington, W.
Wells, Miss Grenville, 5, Argyll-road, Kensington, London, W.
Wemyss, Miss A., Washwell House, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
Westcott, WilliamWynn,M.B.,D.P.H.,396, Camden-road, London, N.
Westlake, Ernest, F.G.S., Vale Lodge, Hampstead Heath, N.W.
Westlake, Mrs. Ernest, Vale Lodge, Hampstead Heath, N.W.
Wherry, G. E., F.R.C.S., Corpus-buildings, Cambridge.
Whishaw, Mrs. Beknhard, 173, Maida Vale, London, W.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
Whitear, Rev. W., B.A., 5, St. Andrew's road, Enfield, N.
Whitehead, John, Esplanade, Guernsey.
Whitehead, Miss Mercia D., Mostyn House, Cambridge.
Whiting, J. Markby, 58, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S. \V.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone.
Wilberforce, Rev. Canon Basil, M.A., 20, Dean's Yard, London.
Wilde, Mrs., Hotel du Pare, Glion sur Montreux, Switzerland.
Willan, Miss Florence M., Hanley Castle, near Worcester.
Willard, Miss Frances E., The Cottage, Reigate.
Willett, Mrs., Bedales, Lindfield, near Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 9, Upper Beulah-hill, Upper Norwood.S.E.
Williams, Rev. Nelson G.,M.A.,Ketteringham,Wymondham, Norfolk.
Williams, Miss S., The Reservoir, Edgbaston, near Birmingham.
Willmott, Miss R., Warley Place, Great Warley, Essex.
Wilson, Miss, 7, Cromwell-terrace, Scarborough.
Wilson, David H., M.A., Dunridge, West Hill, St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
Wilson, Charles M., Edinburgh Hotel, St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
Winchester, H., M.B.,CM., Oak Bank, Fort Augustus, Inverness, N.B.
Windeyer,The Hon. W.C. Justice, Supreme Court, Sydney, Australia.
Wingpield, Mrs. Edward, 40, Albion-street, Hyde Park, W.
Wingpield, H. E., M.A., 58, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
♦Wingpield, Mrs., Belvidere Place, Church-road, Wimbledon.
Wisden, Lieut. Thomas F. M., Broadwater, near Worthing.
Schedule of Members and Associates. 625
Witherby, Arthur George, B.A., 8, Kensington Palace-gardens, S.W.
Withers, J. J.,B.A., 2, Museum Chambers, Bury-st., Bloomsbury, W.O.
Wittig, Gregor C., 2, Kdrnerstrasse, Leipzig.
Woeikow, Alexis, MoLka 28, St. Petersburg.
Wood, Rev. Canon, M.A., Newent Rectory, Gloucestershire.
Woodd, Mrs. Basil, Leckby, Hollington Park, St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
Woodhouse, G. H., Heath Bank, Bolton.
Wright, Mrs. Almroth E., Ingleside, Netley, Hants.
Wyld, George, M.D., Fieldhead, Wimbledon Park, S.W.
Wyndham, Hon. Percy, 44, Belgrave-square, London, S.W.
Yearsley, P. Macleod, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Chalk-hill House, Kings-
bury-Neasden, N.W.
Yorke, Hon. Alexander, 32a, Orchard-street, London, W.
Young, Prof. W. H., 883, East Main-street, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
(Elections—August to November, 1895.)
Blyth, W. M., 20, Highbury-terrace, London, N.
Bolton, Miss A. J., B.A. (N.Z.), Hillside, Bourton-road, Buckingham.
Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, West Kirby, near Birkenhead.
Candler, H. A. W., 37, Commercial-road East, London, E.
Chichele-Plowden, Trevor, C.S.I., The Residency, Hyderabad,
Deccan, India.
Crackanthorpe, Mrs., 65, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Crooks, Miss, Kensington, South Australia.
Dodge, Miss Mary M. H., 39, Brompton-square, London, S.W.
Dunham, Miss Helen, 11, Half-Moon-street, Piccadilly, London, W.
Emanuel,Victor R., 67, Queensborough-terrace, Hyde Park, London,W.
Field, E. M., M.A., Cotswold, Bishopswood-road, Highgate, N. —
Hall, Mrs. M. H., Blenheim Lodge, Surbiton.
Hyslop, Dr., Bethlem Hospital, London, S.E.
Kluht, Miss H. M. 156, Westbourne-grove, London, W.
Levy, Mrs., 16, Campden House-road, Kensington, London, W.
Loughnane, John, Clonkeen, Aughrim, Ballinasloe, Ireland.
' McConnel, H. W., M.B., M.R.C.S., Manor House, Ryburgh, Norfolk.
Robbins, Rev. John, D.D., St. George's Vicarage, Campden-hill,W.
Sullivan, W. R. Washington, Purleybury, Purley, Surrey.
Way, William R., Hillside, Upminster, Essex.
Wheeler, Major-General F., Rtd., 8, Oxford-terrace, London, W.
Williams, J. Leon, D.D.S., L.D.S., 30, George-street, Hanover-sq.,W.
Young, Mrs. W. R., Lisccom, Ballymena, co. Antrim.
N.B.—Members and Associates are requested to send information of any
change of address to the Assistant-Secretary, 19, Buckingham-street, Adelphi,
London, W.C.
G26 I.ist of Members and Associates.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
(November, 1st, 1895.)
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
All Addresses are " U.S.A." except when another Country is named.
Abbott, Henry W., 11, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Albehy, Mbs. H. M., Colusa, Colusa Co., Cal.
Albree, John, June., 56, Bedford-street, Boston, Mass.
Albree, Joseph, 20, Market-street, Allegheny, Pa.
Alden, F. E., Vandergrift Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Alden, Henry M., Metuchen, New Jersey.
Alexander, Don, 454, Oak-street, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Alexander, W. L., Canton, Ohio.
♦Alexander, Mrs. Kezia E., Birmingham, Mich.
Ames, Professor Daniel T., 202, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Anderson, Professor A. W., Macalester College, St. Paul, Minn.
Annes, A. L., Wawsaw, Wis.
Arodelles, Don Pedro, Collector of Customs, N. Laredo, Mexico.
Atwood, Dr. Wilson, 17, Tremont-street, Boston, Mass.
Auel, Mrs. C, 65, Lefferts-place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Austen, Mrs. George, Morris Plains, New Jersey.
Avery, Miss M. H., 137, Academy-st., Poughkeepsie, New York, N.Y.
Ayer, J. C, 68, West 91st-street, New York, N.Y. t
Ayer, Miss Louise R., 25, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Baker, Alfred L., 100, Washington-street, Chicago, 111.
Baker, Cyrus O., 41, Franklin-street, Newark, N.J.
Baker, Dr. Smith, Winston-building, Utica, N.Y.
Baldwin, Mrs. Albert, Esplanade-avenue, cor. Derbigny-street, New
Orleans, Lousiana.
Baldwin, Elbert F., 13, Astor-place, New York, N.Y.
Baldwin, Dr. H. C, c/o Dr. Brigham, 19', Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Bancroft, Mrs. John C, 61, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Barnes, W. A., New Madrid, Mo.
I.ist of Members and Associates. 627
Barrows, C. M., 58, University-road, Brookline, Mass.
Bartlett, James W., 211, Central-avenue, Dover, N.H.
Beam, Mrs. John V., Jr., 10, West 30th-street, New York, N.Y.
Belden, Mrs. Amanda W., 4,722, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Bigelow, Dr. W. S., 60, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Blackford, A., 322, South Main-street, Findlay, Ohio.
Blanchard, Rev. Henry, D.D., Portland, Maine.
Blodgett, C, M.D., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass.
- Blodgett, Mrs., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass.
Boardman, Hon. W. F., Department of the Interior, Ottawa, Canada.
Boon, Mrs. E. G., Molino di Sopra, Alassio, Riviera di Ponenta, Italy.
Both-Hendriksen, Miss Louise, 166, Macon-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Bowditch, C. P., 28, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Bowditch, Professor H. P., Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass.
Bradley, Miss A. A., 179, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Brewster. Mrs. William, c/o Brewster and Co., Broadway and
47-street, New York, N.Y.
Briggs, Dr. E. O, 125, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Brimmer, Martin, 47, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Brimmer, Mrs. Martin, 47, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama.
a Brooks, Henry, 115, Milk-street, Boston, Mass.
Brown, Alfred S., 195, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Brown, Edmond O, 132, Nassau-street, New York, N.Y.
Brown, Elisha R., Dover, New Hampshire.
Brown, Rev. Howard N., 353, Walnut-street, Brookline, Mass.
Browne, G. H., 16, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Browne, Mrs. L. Andrews, 131, Sargent-street, Newton, Mass.
Bryan, W., 1,015, Capitol-avenue, Main-street, Houston, Texas.
Buffett, Dr. E. P., 520, Bergen-avenue, Jersey City Heights, N. J.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Bulley, R. H., Canton, Ohio.
Bundy, Mrs. John O, 624, Sheridan-square, Evanston, 111.
Burdett, Charles A., Woburn, Mass.
Burge, Miss Marie L., 132, Montague-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Burke, Ex.-Gov. A. H., Duluth, Minn.
Butler, C. W., M.D., 35, Fullerton-av., South, Montclair, N.J.
Butler, Miss Virginia, 31, East 69th-street, New York, N.Y.
Carot, Caroline A., M.D., 168, W.-48th Street, New York, N.Y.
Carey, A. A., 29, Fairfield-street, Boston, Mass.
Carey, Mrs. A. A., 29, Fairfield-street, Boston, Mass.
Camochan, Gouverneur M., 46, Exchange-place, New York, N.Y.
Carpenter Franklin R., M.A., Ph.D., Deadwood, South Dakota.
Carpenter, Mrs. Franklin R., Deadwood, South Dakota.
628 I.ist of Members and Associates.
Carpenter, W. O., 517, Adams-street, Chicago, 111.
Oarr, Lucien, 163, Brattle-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Carr, Robert S., Hamilton, Ohio.
Casey, Theodore B., Minneapolis, Minn.
Catlin, Captain R., 1,428, Euclid-place, Washington, D.C
Oaulkins, Silas, Soldiers' Home, Los Angeles County, California.
Chapin, F. W., M.D., Hot Springs, Virginia.
Chapman, Mrs. J. J., 327, West 82nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Chase, Harvey S., 12, West 31st-street, New York, N.Y.
Cheney, Dr. Fred. E., Hotel Bristol, Boston, Mass.
Cheney, W. T., 220, Broad-street, Rome, Georgia.
Chick, Frank W., Madrid, Franklin Co., Maine.
Clapp, Mrs. Emma A., 5,431, Cottage Grove-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Clarke, J. E., Ph.D., 214, South 43rd-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Claypole, Professor E. W., 603, Buchtel-avenue, Akron, Ohio.
Cleaves, N. Porter, 29, India-street, Boston, Mass.
Clbndennin, Dr. Paul, Fort Warren, Boston, Mass.
Clough, Albert L., Box 114, Manchester, N.H.
Cobb, Mrs. Francis D., Barnstaple, Mass.
Cockerill, Mrs. R. D., Weir City Zinc Co., Weir City, Kansas.
Oodman, J., Porcellian Club, Cambridge, Mass.
Coffin, C P., 39, Court-street, Boston, Mass.
Coleman, Miss Anne C, Lebanon, Pennsylvania.
♦Coleman, William Emmette, Chief Quartermaster's Office, San
Francisco, Cal.
Compton, Prof. Elias, Wooster University, Wooster, Ohio.
Conner, Mrs. Eliza A., American Press Association, 45 & 47, Park-
place, New York, N.Y.
Cook, Mrs. Ellen K., 220, Main-street, Davenport, Iowa.
Cook, R. Harvey, M.D., Oxford Retreat, Oxford, Ohio.
Coonley, Mrs. John C, 620, Division-street, Chicago, 111.
Cope, Professor Edward D., 2,102, Pine-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Corning, Mrs. M. S., York Harbour, Maine.
Coryell, V. M., 310, Sixth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Cotton, Mary H., M.D., Portsmouth, Ohio.
Crafts, James M., 59, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Crafts, Mrs. J. M., 59, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Crepin, Ernest E., 4,726, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Crocker. Mrs. F. E., P. 0. Box 59, Columbus Junction, Iowa
Crosby, Mrs. Eleanor F., Gardner-road, Brookline, Mass.
Crosby, Professor W. O., Society Natural History, Boston, Mass.
Crothers, Dr. T. D., Walnut Lodge, Hartford, Conn.
Curran, Richard L, 54, Oneida-street, Utica, N.Y.
Currie, Rev. C. George, D.D., 1014, St. Paul's-street, Baltimore, Md.
List of Members and Associates. 629
Curtis, W. E., 1740, M-street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Ccshing, Mrs. F. W., Highland Park, 111.
Dailey, Judge Abram H., 16, Court-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Dawbarn, Robert H. M., M.D.. 105, W. 74th-st, New York, N.Y.
Delararre, Prof. G. B., 9, Arlington-avenue, Providence, R.I.
Dewey, D. B., Evanston, 111.
Dexter, Mrs. George, Egmont-street, Brookline, Mass.
Dickey, Calvin, M.A., Room 22, 94, Washington-street, Chicago, 111.
Dike, Miss Florence B., 207, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Dimmock, George, P. O. Box 15, Canobie Lake, N.H.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., 21, Prospect-street, East Orange, N.J.
Dodge, J. T., 346, West Washington-avenue, Madison, Wis.
Donald, Rev. Dr. E. Winchester, Trinity Church, Boston, Mass.
Dorr, Mrs. C. H., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dorr, George B., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dow, Alexander, 1, West 83rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Drown, T. Pickering, 351, Congress-street, Boston, Mass.
Dunham, Miss E. L., 37, East 36th-street, New York, N.Y.
Dutton, Horace, Auburndale, Mass.
Dwight, Mrs. James, Stockbridge, Mass.
Dyer, Walter H., Knightsville, Maine.
« Earl, John Charles, 15, Terrace-place, Yonkers, New York, N.Y.
Edmunds, Miss L., c/o R. Hodgson, 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Edwards, Mrs. Mary H., 161, Main-street, Keene, N.H.
Eldridge, E. H., The Temple Coll., Broad .fe Berks-sts.,Philadelphia,Pa.
Eliot, John F., 48, Gordon-avenue, Hyde Park, Mass.
Ellis, Miss Lucy, 330, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Esterly, Mrs. G. W., 100, South 13th-street, Minneapolis, Minn.
Esty, Professor William G, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
Etheridge, Miss Fanny S., 1,634, Michigan-boulevard, Chicago, 111.
Evans, Miss Ella K., 186, North-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Evans, Mrs. Glendower, 12, Otis-place, Boston, Mass.
Everett, Professor C. G, 23, Berkeley-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Farmer, Miss Sarah J., Eliot, Maine.
Felton, Thomas C, Hotel Ludlow, Boston, Mass.
Ferguson, J. H., Talmage, Nebraska.
Fields, Mrs. James T., 148, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Fillebrown, Thos., M.D., D.M.D., 157, Newbury-street, Boston, Mass.
Finney, Miss Ida M., Lambertville, New Jersey.
Finnigan, John, 61, Beckman-street, New York, N.Y.
Fiske, Rev. Richmond, D.D., 251, Lexington-st., East Boston, Mass.
Fluhrer, Rev. Charles, D.D., 95, Main-street, Albion, N.Y.
Forbes, John M., Milton, Mass.
Forbes, W. H., 181, Devonshire-street, Boston, Mass.
030 I.ist of Members and Associates.
Frothingham, O. B., 118, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Fullerton, C W., 94, Dearborn-street, Chicago, 111.
Fullerton, Peofessoe G. S., 4,116, Spruce-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Gage, Lyman J., 470, North State-street, Chicago, 111.
Gale, Harlow S., Univ. of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Gardiner, De. Edwaed G., Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Gardiner, Professoe H. N., 23, Craft's Avenue, Northampton, Mass.
Gardiner, J. Hays, Harvard, Cambridge, Mass.
Gardner, Mrs. John L., 152, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Gay, Walter, Rue Ampere, Paris.
Gehring, Albert, 626, Pearl-street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Gentjng, Prof. J. Franklin, Ph.D., Amherst, Mass.
Gerrish, Dr. F. H., 675, Congress-street, Portland, Maine.
Gleason, Adele A., M.D., The Sanitarium, Elmira, N.Y.
Goddard, George A., 1, Mount Vernon-place, Boston, Mass.
Goff, F. 0., 11, Brakenahl-block, Cleveland, Ohio.
Goodale, Henry Sterling, 400, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Goodnow, H. R., 95, Riverside, Drive, New York.
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederick, 250, Fifth-avenue, .New York, N.Y.
Goeton, Dr. D. A., 137, Clinton-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Gray, Mrs. John C, 176, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Greeley, Mes. C. A., Nashua, Iowa.
Geeene, Bertram, 50, Rue de Bassano, Paris, France.
Greene, Miss, Hotel Brunswick, New York, N.Y.
Gridley, J. N., Virginia, 111.
Grifpin, Rev. R. A., Columbus-avenue, Northampton, Mass.
Grifping, Mrs. C. R., 722, Amsterdam-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Grower, George G., Ansonia Brass and Copper Co., Ansonia, Conn.
Hall, Professor James, Room 35, State Hall, Albany, N.Y.
Hall, James P., 6, Poplar-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Hall, Dr. T. P., Tabor, Fremont Co., Iowa.
Hamilton, C. M., 50, Main-street, Salamanca, N.Y.
Hardaway, W. A., M.D., 2,710, Olive-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Harden, Judge William D., Savannah, Georgia.
Harris, Rev. J. A.,D.D.,St.Paul's Rectory, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia.
Harris, William T., LL.D, 914, 23rd-street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Haetshoene, Charles H., 57, Bentley-avenue, Jersey City, N.Y.
Haetzell, F. S., 96, North Walnut-street, Canton, Ohio.
Hawk, Walteb S., Doniphan, Nebraska.
Hawley, C. E., 821, Asylum-avenue, Hartford, Conn.
Haworth, George D., Decatur, 111.
Haynes, Henby W., 239, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Haywaed, Alvinza, 532, Market-street, San Francisco, Cal.
Heabd, Mes. John, 439, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
List of Members and Associates. 631
Heilner, Rev. S. A., D.D., 1,410, Christian-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hemenway, Augustus, Readville, Mass.
Heywood, Charles, Gardner, Mass.
Hicks, Benj. D., Old Westbury, Queen's Co., N.Y.
Hiobee, Col. George H., Kittery Point, Maine.
Hill, Mrs. A. S., 19, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Hirritt, Rev. Frederick W., Ottumwa, Iowa.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Hodgson, Dr.THOmaS,Astolet,Chapman-st.,North Melbourne,Australia.
Hoffman, Professor F. S., Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.
Holbrook, Levi, P. O. Box 536, New York, N.Y.
Holbrook, Dr. M. L., 46, East 21st-street, New York, N.Y.
Holladay, Prof. Waller, 400, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Holmes, Mrs. Julia Sadler, 28, West 120th-st., New York, N.Y.
Holmes, Rev. S.V.V.,Westminster Church, Deleware-ave., Buffalo, N.Y.
Holt, Henry, 29, West 23rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Holt, L. Emmett, M.D., 15, East 54th-street, New York, N.Y.
Hommel, P. A., 794, 2nd-avenue, Pittsburg, Pa.
Hooper, Miss E. R., 141, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Hotchkiss, Dr. Elizareth, M.A., The Rathbun, Elmira, New York.
Hoyle, W., El Toro, Orange County, Cal.
m Hudson, Thomson Jay, 10, Ninth-street, S.E., Washington, D.C.
Hull, Miss P. O, 22, John-street, Providence, R.I.
Hunt, Chas. R., M.D., 262, Union-street, New Bedford, Mass.
Hurley, A. M., cornerof First and Monmouth-sts.,Independence,Oregon.
Huse, Wm., Ponca, Dixon Co., Nebraska.
Hutchinson, Dr. Mahlon, 100, State-street, Chicago, 111.
Hyslop, Professor J. H., Columbia College, New York, N.Y.
Jackson, Mrs. Flora J., 558, Milwaukee-street, Milwaukee, Wis.
Jackson, Mrs., 16, Rue des Bassins, Paris, France.
James, Professor William, 95, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
January, Mrs. J. Lindell, c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley & Co., London.
Jefferson, J., Buzzard's Bay, Mass.
s Jenks, Mrs. P. A., 290, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Jewett, Miss S. O., South Berwick, Maine.
Johnson, Charles R., Box 492, 405, Main-street, Worcester, Mass.
Johnson, Professor Roger B., Miami University, Oxford, Ohio.
Joline, Mrs. Adrian H., 1, West 72nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Jones, George H., 561, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Jones, Miss Therese E., Box 566, Los Angelos, Cal.
Kehew, Mrs. William B., 317, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Kelly, W. F., 918, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Kibbe, A. B., M.D., 326, Bailey-building, Seattle, Washington.
Kidd, G. W., 853, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
632 I.ist of Members and Associates.
Kilneb, Mrs. S. E., 333, West 78th-street, New York, N.Y.
Kimball, Dr. F. H., Rockford, 111.
Knowles, Rev. Edward R., 30, Institute-road, Worcester, Mass.
Kopta, Madame Flora P., Gut Podmok in Podmok, Post Shiitten-
hofen, Bohemia.
Kuhn, Hamilton, c/o Messrs. Hottinguer and Co., Paris, France.
Lamont, Robert, 68, St. James's-place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Lane, Charles D., Angels Camp, Calaveras County, California.
Lane, Mrs. Charles D., Angels Camp, Calaveras County, California.
Langley, Professor S. P., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Latham, Dr. V. A , B.Sc, N. W. Univ., Woman's Med. Coll., S. Lincoln-
street, Chicago, 111.
Lawrence, A. A., 59, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Lawrence, A. E., Junr., 53, Devonshire-st, Room 15, Boston, Mass.
Lawton, Miss Elizabeth, 142, East 18th-street, New York, N.Y.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, New York, N.Y.
Lee, Mrs. M. H., Shrewsbury, Mass.
Leonard, Thomas, 628, 22nd-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine.
Librarian, Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania.
Librarian, Cassadaga Lake Library Association, Lily Dale, N.Y.
Librarian of Cazenovia Public Library, Cazenovia, N.Y.
Librarian, Denver Public Library, Denver, Colo.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich.
Librarian, Haverhill Public Library, Haverhill, Mass.
Librarian, Lowell City Library, Lowell, Mass.
Librarian, Maiden Public Library, Maiden, Mass.
Librarian, Metropolitan Club Library, Washington, D.C.
Librarian, Michigan State Library, Lancing, Mich.
Librarian, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111.
Librarian, Rochester Theological Seminary,Rochester,New York,N.Y.
Librarian, (Springfield) City Library Association, Springfield, Mass.
LiPPitt, General Francis J., 2,025, G.-street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Littlepield, J., c/o S. S.Whiteife Co., 1 2th &Chestnut-sts., Philadelphia.
Lockwood, Colonel J. S. 146, Franklin-street, Boston, Mass.
Logan, W. S., 58, William-street, New York, N.Y.
Lombardi, C, 1,314, Rusk-avenue, Houston, Texas.
Long, George E., Jos. Dixon Crucible Company, Jersey City, N.J.
Locnsberry, C. A., c/o The Argus, Fargo, North Dakota.
Love, Charles A., M.D., Malvern, Iowa.
Lukens, Dr. Anna, 1,068, Lexington-avenue, New York, N.Y.
MacDonough, Thomas B., 25, West 30th-street, New York, N.Y.
I.ist of Members and Associates. 633
Magoun, Walter Russell, 47, Tremont-street, Boston, Mass.
Main, \Af. F., cor. College and Dubuque-streets, Iowa City, Iowa.
Malleby, Mrs. Garrick, 1,323, N.-st., N.W., Washington, D.C.
Martin, Miss Emma H., Worcester, Mass.
Marvin, Walter T., 2,099, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Mason, Miss Ellen F., 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, Miss Ida, 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, H. L., 39, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Mason, R. Osgood, M.D., 348, West 58th-street, New York, N.Y.
Maurs, Phillips, 620, F.-street, Washington, D.C.
McClellan, Mrs. Clara D., Galena, 111.
McClelland, Major G. P., Davenport, Iowa.
McDonald, Prof. C. C, Kimball House, Davenport, Iowa.
McEwen, Mrs. D. C, 160, Stirling-place, Brooklyn, New York, N.Y.
McGee, W. J., Bureau of Amer. Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C.
McHenry, Miss J. Howard, Pikesville, Balto. Co., Maryland.
McIntosh, Herbert, 533, Massachusetts-avenue, Boston, Mass.
McLaury, Dr. Wm. M., 244, West 42-street, New York, N.Y.
McVicker, J. H., McVicker's Theatre, Chicago, 111.
Mendenhall, Mrs. E. R., 1,804, Green-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Miller, Mrs. G. S., Peterborough, Madison Co., N.Y.
Millet, Josiah B., 150, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Milliken, George, 3,614, Walnut street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Miner, Noyes B., Riverside, Cook County, 111.
Minot, Professor Charles S., 22, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Minturn, Miss, 109, East 21st-street, New York, N.Y.
Mitchell, James, Stock Exchange, New York, N.Y.
Morgan, Lieut. Geo. H., Minneapolis, Minn.
Morgan, W. E., M.D., 34, East 29th-street, Chicago, 111.
Murlin, Rev. L. H, President Baker University, Baldwin, Kansas.
Murphy, Hon. Franklyn, 1,027, Broad-street, Newark, N.J.
Myers, W. H, M.D., 15, West Wayne-street, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Myrick, Rev. Henry L., Sing Sing, New York.
Newbold, Wm. Romaine, Ph.D., Univ. of Penna, Philadelphia, Pa.
Newcomb, Prof. Simon, Washington, D.C.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, East Hampton, Suffolk Co., N.Y.
Niles, Harry D., M.D., 217, East Brigham-street, Salt Lake City,Utah.
Nims, F. A., Muskegon, Mich.
Norbury, Miss Mary A., 206, West 71st-street, New York, N.Y.
Norris, Hon. C. H., Marion, Marion Co., Ohio.
Nunn, Dr. Richard J., H9|, York-street, Savannah, Georgia.
Nye, William B., Columbia College, New York, N.Y.
Olcott, Miss Edith, 4, East 53rd-street, New York, N.Y.
634 I.ist of Members and Associates.
Oldham, F. F., Blymyer Building, opp. Post Office, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Oliver, George S. J., Santa Barbara, Cal.
Oppenheimer, L. M., Austin, Texas.
Orrick, N. C, Canton, Mississippi.
Osborn, General F. A., 236, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Osborne, A. E., M.D., Eldridge, P.O., Sonoma Co., Cal.
Osgood, Arthur H., M.D., 12, Highland-avenue, Somerville, Mass.
Park, Dr. Roswell, 510, Delaware-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Parke, Miss M. P., 117, West 49th-street, New York, N.Y.
Parker, William L., 339, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Parks, George P., Bedford, Indiana.
Parsons, A. J., 1,818, N-street, Washington, D.C.
Parsons, John E., M.D., 6, Grove-street, Ayer, Mass.
Peabody, Mrs. A. P., 47, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Pearson, Miss E. H., 219, Savin Hill-avenue, Dorchester, Mass.
Peckham, Orville, First National Bank, Chicago, HI.
Pellew, Mrs. Henry E., 1,637, Massachusetts-ave., Washington, D.C.
Pendleton, Miss, 1,522, Locust-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Perkins, Mrs. Charles E., 223, Commonwealth-ave., Boston, Mass.
Perkins, Franklin R., 294, Linwood-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Perrin, Mrs. E. O., Stanton, Florida.
Perry, John G., M.D., 48, East 34th-street, New York, N.Y.
Perry, Thos. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Peters, E. T., Box 265, Washington, D.C.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., Forest Hill-street, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Pettit, Miss Edith, 2205, Trinity-place, Philadelphia, Pa.
Phillips, Mrs. J. C, Junr., 299, Berkeley-street, Boston, Mass.
Platt, J. C, 333-335, Fourth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Plumb, D. S., 24, Boudinot-street, Newark, N.J.
Potter, E. C, 4,800, Ellis-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Potter, Mrs. O. W., 130, Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, HI.
Pratt, Mrs. Henry S., Haverford, Pa.
Prince, Dr. Morton, 458, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. Charles P., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Miss Annie C, 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, George, 50, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. James J., 106, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Quinby, Rev. John 'W., East Bridgewater, Mass.
Quincy, Josiah P., 82, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Quirk, Charles H., M.D., c/o Messrs. Payton and Co., Balcaree 371,
Buenos Ayres, South America.
Rand, Mrs. J. L., 49, Kirkland-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Ransom, Frank H., Coal and Iron Exchange, Buffalo, N.Y.
I.ist of Members and Associates. 635
Raymond, Mrs. Henry E., Carey-road, Brookline, Mass.
Rayson, Miss Amy, B.A., 174, West 87th-street, New York, N.Y.
♦Rees, Mrs. Janet E. Ruutz, 864, Carnegie Studios, New York, N.Y.
Reid, Miss Estelle, 38, East 30-street, New York, N.Y.
Reynolds, Edward, M.D., 130, Marlboroughstreet, Boston, Mass.
Reynolds, Roth, 3, Bank of Commerce, Louisville, Ky.
Riale, Rev. F. N, Ph.D., Des Moines, Iowa.
Rice, Mrs. David Hall, 2, Wellington-terrace, Brookline, Mass.
Richardson, Mrs. Abby S., 256, West lOOth-street, New York, N.Y.
Richardson, M. T., Ridgewood, New Jersey.
Richardson, Dr. W. L., 225, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Robbins, Miss A. M., 37, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Robinson, C. W., 108, Travis-street, Houston, Texas.
Roeder, Rev. A., Vineland, N.J.
Rolfe, Alfred G., The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
Ropes, John C, 99, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Rotan, Edward, Waco, Texas.
Royce, Professor Josiah, 103, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Rumsey, Mrs. B. C, cor. Delaware-ave. and Tracey-st., Buffalo, N.Y.
Russell, Arthur J., Office of The Journal, Minneapolis, Minn.
Salter, W. M., 1,415, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
^ Sargent, C. S., M.D., Stockton, San Joaquin County, California.
Sargent, Mrs. Winthrop, 207, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Savage, Rev. M. J., Pembroke-street, Boston, Mass.
Sawyer, Hon. Chas. H., Dover, New Hampshire.
Sawyer, G. G, Utica Academy, Utica, N.Y.
Schenck, Miss Ida Z., 114, East 19th-street, New York, N.Y.
Schieffelin, Mrs. W. H, 242, East 15th-street, New York, N.Y.
Schiller, Prof. C, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
Sercombe, P. H., 58, Sentinel-building, Milwaukee, Wis.
Shaw, Mrs. G. H,, 23, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Shaw, Mrs. Quincy A., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Shedd, Z., Room 3, Masonic Temple, Denver, Colorado,
k Sheets, John C, Cincinnati Sanatorium, College Hill, Ohio.
Sherman, Mrs. B. W., Riverside, Cook County, 111.
Shimmin, Miss Blanche, 229, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
♦Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Sintenis, E. H., P. O. Box 115, Abilene, Texas.
Smalley, Ora O., Jaybird, Ohio.
Smith, Francis, Muskegon, Mich.
Smith, J. Heber, M.D., 279, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson-place, Buffalo, N.Y.
Smith, William Hawley, Peoria, 111.
Smith, W. Lincoln, Inst. of Technology, Boston, Mass.
636 I.int of Members and Associates.
Smith, Winpield, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Soule, George H. S., 40, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Stanton, J. E., M.D., D.M.D., 414, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Steedman, J. G. W., AM., M.D., 2,803, Pine-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Sterling, Mrs. E. C, 22, Westmoreland-place, St. Louis, Mo.
Stillmann, Mrs. W. O., 287, State-street, Albany, N.Y.
Stilwell, Mary H., D.D.S., 1,300, Arch-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Stockton, John P., Junr., Highwood, Bergen Co., N.J.
Stokes, J. N. P., 229, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Stone, Charles W^, 68, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Stone, Mrs. Richard, Jcnr., 18, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Strauss, Albert, 124, West 97th-street, New York, N.Y.
Street, Miss Ida M., 703, Euclid-avenue, Desmoines, Iowa.
Strong, Charles A., M.D., University of Chicago, Chicago, HI.
Sturgis, Chas. Russell, 63, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade, 85, West Grand-street, Elizabeth, N.J.
Sumner, Dr. A. M., 336, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Sutherland, J. G., Salt Lake City, Utah.
Swift, William H., Wilmington, Delaware.
Symonds, Brandreth, M.D., 128, W. 59-street, New York, N.Y.
Tappan, Miss M. A., 44, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Taylor, Fredk., 121, School-street, Lowell, Mass.
Thaw, A. Blair, M.D., San Ysido Ranch, San Barbara, Cal.
Thaw, Mrs. A. Blair, San Ysido Ranch, San Barbara, Cal.
Thompson, Frank J., Fargo, North Dakota.
Thomson, Dr. W., 1,426, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Thorndike, S. Lothrop, 19, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Thorpe, Joseph G., Junr., 115, Brattle-street, Cambridge, Mass. .
Tiffany, W. G., 54, Rue de Bassano, Paris, France.
Tighe,Judge J.G.,Germanica Bdg., 375-379, Fulton-st., Brooklyn, N.Y.
Toti'en, Mrs. Enoch, 1,708, I-street,Washington, D.C.
Touzalin, Mrs. A. E., P.O. Box 113, Colorado Springs, Colorado.
Towner, Judge J. W., Santa Ana, California.
Toy, Professor C. H., 7, Lowell-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Turnbull, Miss K. E., 113, East 39th-street, New York, N.Y.
Turner, Miss Mary J., 11, Faxon-avenue, Quincy, Mass.
Tweedy, Edmund, Newport, Rhode Island.
Tyson, Mrs. George, 314, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass.
Underhill, Miss P. A., 55, West 54th-street, New York, N.Y.
Underwood, B. F., 92, La Salle-street, Chicago, 111.
Van Norden, Rev. C, D.D., L.L.D., Auburn, California.
Wait, Marshall, 5,144, Madison-avenue, Hyde Park, Chicago, 111.
Wake, C. Staniland, 350, East Chicago-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Ward, Dr. J. N., Auburn, California.
I.ist of Members and Associates. 637
Ward, W. E., Port Chester, N.Y.
Warren, Dr. J. W., Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Washburn, Oscar F., West Acton, Mass.
Watkins, John Elfreth, Junr., 1,626, S.-st., N.W.Washington, D.C.
Watson, Professor William, 107, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Watts, H. M., "The Press," Philadelphia, Pa.
Webb, Mrs., 34, Chestnutrstreet, Salem, Mass.
Webster, David L., 332, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Weld, Miss Edith, South and Centre-streets, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Wheeler, Mrs. Stephen, 504, Sixth-avenue, Fort Smith, Ark.
Wheeler, William, Concord, Mass.
Wherrel, John, M.D., 228, North Mill-street, Kansas City, Kansas.
Whipple, L. E., 328, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
White, James T., 765, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Whiteside, Miss H., c/o A. A. Carey, 29, Fairfield-st., Boston, Mass.
Whitman, Mrs. Henry, 77, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Whiton, Rev. James. M., Ph.D., 79, Worth-street, New York, N.Y.
Whittaker, Thomas, 71, East 66th-street, New York, N.Y.
Williams, Mrs. S. C, 37, East 50th-street, New York, N.Y.
Wilmarth, Mrs. Mary H., The Auditorium, Chicago, 111.
Wilson, Mrs. John L., P.O. Box 19, Framingham, Mass.
^Wilson, Tom L., Room 10, Chopin Block, Buffalo, N.Y.
*Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Lancing, Morgan Co., Tenn.
Wing, Isaac H., Bayfield, Wisconsin.
Wblcott, Mrs. Roger, 173, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Woodbridge, Professor F. J. E., Univ. of Minn., Minneapolis, Minn.
Woodman, Walter, M.D., Hubbard-park, Cambridge, Mass.
Wright, Dr. J.P., 500, North Commercial-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Wyatt, Melvyn H., Sparkill, Rockland County, N.Y.
Wyllys, Miss R., 18, Louisberg-square, Boston, Mass.
Wynne, Mrs. M. Y., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Zug, C, P.O. Box 1,053, Sable Iron Works, Pittsburgh, Pa.
N. B. —Members and Associates are requested to send information of
any change of address to Dr. Richard Hodgson, 5, Boylston Place,
Boston, Mass.
v.
*
4
s
I
1
PROCEEDINGS OF
SOCIETY FOR WCHICAL RE
antral Meetings
i Thought-transference. By Hrxry G. Rawsox,
24
II. Dipsomania and Hypnotism
M n i Jf""""""' »y John uokikmi Dill, M.A.
Sc" (Lon?r °' TB"1l0Ke G""' M-R 0-8-
III- The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.-II. By Fuedeb,c
«. a. Myers ...
IV. On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Menssn™ n
"MlssX." ooogta. jjy
Mr, W. Leaf's "Modern Priestess of Isis " (translativii
from \V. S. Solovyoff), and Mr. E. Garrett's "Isis
very much Unveiled." By Frank Podmore . . 156
IV. Herr Edmund Parish's " Ueber die Trugwahmehmung."
By Miss Alice Johksox IB2
V. " RivisU di Studi Psichici." By Walter Leaf, Litt. D.. 171
reiDOnsibilUu foi
in the Pr
and the returningt in papert published
KEGAX PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER & CO., Limited,
1895.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the variou
which are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, W
from others.
It is hoped that Members and Associates in different parts of the
country, who are willing to take an active part in the Society*
researches, vrill put themselves in communication with the Hob.
Secretaries, F. W. H. Myers, Esq., Leckhuuipton House, Cambridge
or Frank Podmore, Esq., 32, Well Walk, Hampstead, N.W.
The Assistant-Secretary is at the Rooms of the Society, No. 19,
Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C., on every week-day, except Satur
day, from 2.30 to 5.30 p.m. At these times Members can obtain
Books from the Library.
PROCEEDINGS OF
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
PrINCIPAl Contents op Parts XVIII.—XXVI.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Assistant-Secretary, 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C.]
Volume VII.—Price 8s. 1891-2.
Paiit XVI 11.—Price 2s. 6d. PaGE
I. Experimental Studies in Thought-Transference. By Baron von
SchrenCk NotztnO, M.D 3
H. Experiments in Automatic Writing. By Thomas Barkworth . 23
ill. On the Kvi.lence for Clairvoyance. Parti. By MBS. H. SldgWICk 30
IV. Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne. By Leon Marillier . . 100
I. On Alleged Movements of Objects, without contact, occurring not
in the presence of a Paid Medium. By F. W. H. MyerS . . 146
II. Experiments in Clairvoyance. By Ilr. Alfred Backman . . 199
III. A Case of Double Consciousness. By Richard Hodgson . . 221
I. Third Ad Interim Report on the Census of Hallucinations . . 259
II. On Spirit.Photographs : A Reply to Mr. A. R. Wallace. By Mrs.
llKnKV SldgWICk. . . . 268
I. The Subliminal Consciousness. Chaps. I & II. By F. W. H. MyerS . 298
II. Supplement to the Paper on the Evidence for Clairvoyance. Part I.
By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick 356
EH. Note on a Visit to Kalmar. By F. W. H. Myers .... 370
V. On Alleged Moveraeuts of Objects, without Contact, Occurring not
in the Presence of a Paid Medium. Part II. By F. W. H. Myers 383
Volume VIII.-Price 10s. 1892.
Part XXI. Price 2s. 6d.
A Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance—
§1. Introductory. §2. Some Peculiarities of the Trance State. §3. Hypo
thesis of Fraud. § 4. Hypothesis of Thought-Transference from the Sittera.
.-Account of Himself. § 0. Relation of Phinuit to Mrs. Piper. § 10. Conclusion.
I let.riled Reports of Sittings. Pp. 167. By Richard Hodgson, I.L.U.
I. On Indications of Continned Terrene Knowledge ou the Part of
Phantasms of the Dead. By F. W. H. Myers . . . .170
V. Further Information as to Or. Backmau's Experiments in Clair
voyance . 405
rtjtBT XXIII.—Price Ss. 0i.
iliss Alice Johnson 53b
L- rplEMrnt.-l. William Stainton Moses. By F. W. H. Myers.
II. The Second International Congress of Experimental Psychology. 597
Volume IX.— Price 8s. 1893-4.
I.
II.
111.
it XXIV.—Price 3s. 6d.
, ,!,ence ot tjie liieosophi.sta. By Richard HODG3On,
to HI) PRPP the Slii-acles of Lourdea. B
Part XXV.—Price 3s. 6d.
General Meetings .
I. Partial Anesthesia. By Prof
II. The Experiences of W. Stainb
III. Indian Magicand the Tertimonj
Supplement. Review. By H. Bai
Volume X.—Price 8s. 1804. (Bound in Cloth.)
Part XXVI.—Price 7s.
inactivity. By Professor Oliver J. Lodge, F, 3 I
III. Report ou the Census of Hallucinations. By Professor
UPI'LeMent. Itcview :—Mr. Andrew Lang's " Cock I.aiie ai
Sense." By Walter Leak, Litt. D.
Supplementary Catalogue of the Edmund tiurney Librarj
irera. By K. Hows
Smith.
Bound copies of Volumes I.—X. of the S
of the Parts separately, can be obtained throuc
Mi-sKS. Kkgan Paul, Trench, TkC'bnkk &
Members and Associates will be supplied >
T .n to the Assistant-Seer
o7 inlAmorica,toDr. Richard
Any Part may be purchased sepal
VoL I. (Parts i.—iv.)pp. 330,
II. ( „ v.—wx. PP-340.
.. III. ( ., viil.—w.) pp. 500.
IV. ( x.—xi.)pp. tl0o.
" v. ( „ xn.—xiv.) pp. 006.
Cloth-lettered covers for bin
fir* Society also issues ,
CCX,
5s. Vol. Yl. (Parts xv.—lo n, ) at
5s. „ VII. ( „ xvm.-xx.)
.s. „VIII.( „xxr.—xxm.)
U. „ IX. ( „xxiv.-xxv.)j
t, „ X.( „ xxvi.) pn.<
ing any of the Volumes, price Is. ok
being investigated
tBoylston Place, t> , ^.
W.C., or, in america, to Dr. 'Richard H
ROOMS OF THE SOOIETV FOR PSYCHICAL RESB4
19, Buckingham Street, Adklphi, VA.c.
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER & CO., Limits.
SOCIETY fflti PSrailim RESEARCH.
APR21 1897
Pwce 2s. 6d.
'a(1B
173
periraents on the Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge.
Mrh. A. W. Vkkhau . . . . . 174
■is of Mrs. Vcrmll's Card Experiments, -Jjj
The Voice* of Jeanne d'Arc. By Andrew Lanu .
olute Credulity. By Frbdekic W. H. Mykbs •
Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced. By Dk,
m
198
213
235
{ upon the question of Spirit
out ■,"" , - , -« : w. 309
bliurinal Self or Unconscious Cerebration \
By Arthur H. Pierce
II. By Fkilsk Podmore .
ility for both the facts and ttie reasiminys in papers published
\ the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
London '
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER & CO., Limiti
CHARING CROSS RO\D.
Any well-attested^information, bearing on
k hich are being mvestigated |,v th„ a . h
whether from Member*? oT^lf Wi" h.
from others. ln8 to join the ,
It is hoped that Members and a
country, who are willing £ ZL "*** " diff™nt P*
researches, will put themselves i ^ l" tAe
--cretarios, F.. W. H. MyePSl ^ £^mnn,"c*fcioB t<
Frank Podtnore, Esq., 32, Well W*lt *mptoh House, Can
The A^^fe^ta^. "lrat Rooms of the Sol
Buckmgham Street, Adelphi, W.C., on every w t j l-r'
day, from 2.30 to 5.30 p.m. ^t t- y ^^wy, except
Books from the Library. Imes Members can
or
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Part
I. E
III. O
IV. A
If. Ex
III. A i
art :
I. Tl
II. tin
Volume VII.-Priee 8s. 1891-2.
2s. 6d. PaGe
tudies in Thought-Transference. By Bakon yon
itzing, M.D. . .. .. , * . 3
Automatic Writing. By Thomas Barkworth . 23
! for Clairvoyance. Part I. By Mrs. H. Sidgwick 30
le Virgin in Dordogoe. By Lkon Marillier . 100
iments of Objects without Contact, Occurring not .
re of a Paid Medium. By F. W. H. Myers . . 146
lairvoyance. By Dh. Alfred Backman . . 190
s Consciousness. By Biciiard Hodgson, LL. 1). . 321
Interim Beport on the Census of Hallucinations . 259
Spirit Photograph.. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick . 268
inalI Consciousness. Chaps. I & II. By F. W. H. Mvers 298
iii x .toEvidtmce for Clairvoyance. By Mrs. H. SIdGWICk. 350
*v ^'"'iIfiht T.ran8ference Experiments. By Prof. O. J. Lodge, F.H.s! 374
V. On Alleged Movements of Objects, etc. Part II. By F. W. H. Myers 383
Volume VIII.—Price 10s. 1892.
Hodgson, LL.D " ra"ce' y
itious of Contmued Terrene Knowledge on the Part of
XXI
On 1
Ph
253
311
H.Myers 333
. s . 405
I. D.
II. So
X Tl
ions hy Conjurmg of Phenomena sometimes
it Agency. By Richard Hodgson, I.L.D. .
1 House. By Miss B. C. Morton . .
sclonsness. Chaps. Ill & IV. ByF/
lerimentt in i 'htirnjfMee ' .. . '- . ".-,
3d.
u Temps par les Somnambules. Pur M. J.
teur d I'Univtrsiti de I.iege . .. , . . ,
Thought-Transference. By Dr. A. Blair Thaw
ciousness. Chap. V. By F. W. H. Myers
ight-Transference. By Mrs. H. Sidgwick and
By F. W. B. Myers .
414
422
436
597
Supplement.—I. William Stamton M
II. The Second International Con
Volume IX.-Prlee 8s. 1893-4.
Bt XXIV.—Price 3s. 6d.
I. The Subliminal Consciousness. Chap. VI. The Mechanism of
Hysteria. Chap. VII. Motor Automatism. By F. W. H. Myers.
II. The Defence of the Theosophists. By Bichard Hodgson, LL.D. .
III. Mind-Cure, Faith-Cure, and the Miracles of Lourdes. By A. T.
Myers, M.D., F.R.C.P., and F. W. H. Myers . .'. " : ,[
Supplement.—Noticesof Books. ByW. LeaF.Litt.D., F. Podmore, etc.
Pabt XXV.—Price 3s. 6d.
I Partial Amesthesia. By Prof. William Kamsay, Ph.D., F.K.S.
I. The Experiences of W. Stainton Moses.—I. By F. W. H. Myers 245
Indian Magic and the Testimony of Conjurers. By B. Hodgson,LL.D. 354
pplemknt.—Review. By H. Barinoton Smith ....
i of Experimental Psychology 601
129
160
211
236
Volume X. -Price 8s. 1894,
Part XXVI.-Price 7«.
I Address by the Pk es/dsnt, the Kl
II. On Crocial Experiments as to the Si
IIL Keport on* he C^su^f Hailuc'ina
III. The Experiences of W. St
IV. On the Apparent Sources
Supplement.—Reviews:—
I. Recent Hooks on Hypnotis
II. Mr. F. Podmore's " Appn
Wm. Komaine Nbwbc
III. Mr. W. Leafs " Modern 1
V. " KiviaU ili Stttdi INiohici."
Any Part may be purchased separately at half I
Vol. I. (Parts i.—iv.)pp. 33ij. 5a. / y0i yi
„ II. ( „ v.-vn.)pp.340. 6a. „ VII
„ IH.f „ vm.—ix.)pp. GOO. 5s. I VIII.
„ IV. ( „ x.—xi.)pp. 005. 4s. „ IX.
Part xxvn ... pp.172
Cloth-lettered covers for binding any of th
THe SOCIety alSO ISSUeS a MOnthLy ,
CVlAtXOS AMOSO MEmBerS and ASSOCIate* |
Any well-attested information, bearing on th
being investigated by the Society, will be grate!
tions should be addressed ti the Hon. Sec
Adelphi, London, W.C., or, in America, to
Boylston Place, Boston, Mass,
LONDON :
ROOMS OF THE SOCIETY FOK PS1'
19, Buckingham Stubbt, Ade
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNE]
J AIIIMi \-KtJSfi 1WxA.I*,
PEOCEEDI1TG
OF tHE InCORPOrAtED
fCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
it XXIX. Vol. XI.
Oener^l Meeting .
VIII. The Relation of Supernormal Phenomena
no ;-Rotrocognition 3.°4
X. The Relation "f Supernormal Phenomena
mie ;—Precognition iW8
1. Paul
a 'or
Professor Boirao's " L'Hypothese du Magndtisme An
By Waater Lkak, Litt.D
ementary Catalogue of the Edmund Gurnoy Library
ist of Members and Associates
of Members and Associates of the American Branch
599
601
002
tpoiisil'Mtyfor both the
in the Proceedings
is and the reasonings in papers pullisluU
ls eTitireln irith their tnithnr*
London
CEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER A CO., Ltmitkd.
CHARING CROSS ROAD, W.O.
1895.
w
THE INCORPORATED SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1806
PRESIDENT.
William Cbookes, F.R.8.- .
VICF-PRFSIDENtS
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, i PbofessobS. P.Iangl
ALP.. F.K.8. I ion In*titatit,d,\Vashu
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.E. Lord Ravleioh, F.B.S.
TnK Marquis of Bute, K.T. The Right Rev. the
PRESIDENTS.
(Prior to Incorporation.)
Professor H. Sidgwick
Profbssop Balfour Stewart, F.R.8. -m.
Professor H. Sidgwick - - '" . - . * - '
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S,
PnnrrxwK Willum Jaaiks. Harvard. 17 S A
NOTICE.
Any well-Attested information, bearing on the various st
which are being investigated by theSocietv, will be gratefully rec
whether from Members, or persons intending to join tho Sociel
from others.
Jt is hoped that Members and Associates in different parts oi
country, who are willing to take an active part in the Soei
researches, will put themselves in communication with the I
Secretaries, F. W. H. Myers, Esq., Leckhampton House, Cambri.
or Frank Podmore, Esq., 32, Well Walk, Hampstead, N.W.
The Assistant-Secretary is at the Rooms of the Society, No.
Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C., on every week-day, except Sat
day, from 2.30 to il.J0 p.m. At these times Members can obt
Books from the Library. . '
THE INCORPORATED
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Uopies or — —
include a list of the Members of the Society at the
are obtainable at the Rooms of the Society, 19,
PROCEEDINGS OF
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Principal Contents of Parto XVIII.—XXVI.
AadrtnnbSerr* b , 'la u t-'lole '^e,jes can obtained on application to the
8s. 1891-2.
By Karon von
Volume VII.—Prie
t XVIir.—Price 2s. 6U
Experimental Studies in Thought-Transferem-i
SchrenCk-NOtzINO, M.D
Experiments in Automatic Writing. By ThOmAS Barkworth .
l 1n the Evidence for Clairvoyance. Part I. By Mrs. H. SldGWICk
Apparitions of the Virgin in Dordogne. By I.eon Marhxier .
Third Ad Interim Report on the Census of Hallucinations
On Spirit Photographs: A Keply to Mr. A. K. Wallace. By Mrs,
Note on a Visit to Knlmar. ByF. W. H.Myers
Some Itecent Thought-Transference Experiments.
On Alleged Movements of Objects without Contact Occurring not
in the Presence of a Paid Medium. Part II. By F. W. H. Mvers
Volume VIII.—Price 10s. 1892.
XXI. Price 2s. 6d.
ord of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance—
nt of Himself. § 9. Relation of Phinuit to Mrs. Piper. § 10. Conclusion,
ed ...er' of Sittings. Pp. l«7. By Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
By Professor
PaGE
3
23
30
100
146
199
221
259
208
29S
356
370
374
383
Mr. Davey s Imitations by Conjuring of Phenomena sometimes
attributed to Spirit Agency. By Rich \rd Hodcson I r Ii
Record of a Haunted House. By Miss R. 0, Morton* '. ' *. ' .'
runner information as to Dr. Backnuuis Experiments in Clair-
'Altt XX I II. —Price 6o
iuoed Hallucmations. By I- rederic W. H. Mvi
enments in Thought-Transference. By Mrs. H. !
Iiss Alice Johnson
II. The Second International Congress of Experimental Psychology.
Par M. J.
DGWlCk and
405
VA
536
Pakt XXVII.—Pricre 2s. 6d. 1885. (Commencing Vol.
f. Experiments ln Thought-transference, liv llKmv G.
II. Dipsomania and KyptWtUm. By J. Oohoon Dim., M.
.... .wgSJSSSiS^
I\ . On the Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages. By
SUTPLKMent.—Reviews :
IV. Herr Parish's " Trugwahrnehrmm>r.'' fiy Miss Alice J
V. " Rivista di Stixli Psichici." By Walter I.eaf, Litt.D.
Part XXVIII.—Price it. 6d. 1895.
II. The Voices of Jeanne d'Arc. By Andrew Lang
III. Resolute Credulity. By Frederic W. H. Myers
V. Some Psychical Phenomena beariDg up-
ScrrLemknt. -Subliminal Self or rneonscious Cerebration !
Arthur H. Pierce. II. By KntKK Podmore
Bound copies of Volumes I.—X. of the Society'■ Piwfcrf
III. ( .i vih.—ix.lpp. »0U. »t. IX. ( „xxiv.—sxv.
"tV( x.—Xi)pp. W1o. 4s. | „ X,( ,.
" v.'( ,'. Xii.—xiv.^pp.COC. 5s. Part xxvii pp.
being investigated by tho Society, will bo gratefully received
fcioua should be addressed to the\Hnn. Sec. 19 BuclnWh
Adelplii, London, \V.C , or, in Arierfes, to Dr. Richard Hu
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRVBNER & Co., Limitei.
