{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1renate_nde.html","mytitle":"Renate NDE 5016","mylang":"de"}
          	        Renate NDE 5016  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Renate NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2646 Renate NDE 5016  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had already had severe asphyxiation episodes which had led to unconsciousness. The doctor whom I contacted told me it was all due to hysteria. These episodes began in April 1992 and lasted ten years, until finally I was diagnosed as histamine-intolerant and allergic to certain substances. Today I have an allergy specialist who has diagnosed me as 'anamnesis Type I Allergy to local anesthesia' to include oral allergies with anaphylactic reactions up to inhalation allergies like histamines - and I am fructose-intolerant. So now, I have a medical emergency order and an adrenalin pen.

None of this was known by the doctors, so they kept giving me the wrong medications. My health in general was very bad. On that day, my youngest daughter was ten months old, my son was three years old, my eldest daughter five and a half years old - I began succumbing to asphyxiation and fell unconscious. I collapsed into a total darkness, and had no awareness. I had been holding my younger daughter while on the staircase and I fell down the stairs landing on the floor still holding her. A voice said to me that I should sit Anna immediately down on the stairs, which I did. Then everything went black.

The next thing I remember was floating up by the ceiling. I saw baby Anna sitting on the step where I had placed her. My body had fallen down the whole set of stairs and was lying at the foot of the staircase. My little boy came over, bent over me, and started screaming 'Mama, Mama!' The eldest daughter stood in shock and immobile by my body and couldn't say a word. Both of them are now twenty-two and twenty-four years old.  They will say how shocking it was to see me lying there on the ground, not breathing. 

Then I was drawn into a tunnel. It was narrow but didn't have hard walls. I was pulled through this tunnel. At the other end was an incredible bright warm white light, but it wasn't blinding. There stood a being with a beautiful face and everything around him was bright light, but the being didn't have wings. I knew it was an angel and he emanated so much love. The whole area was beautiful, bright, and warm. I knew I was back home again. I can hardly describe how light I felt. I felt so comfortable and had no labored breathing and no pain and everything was so light and clear. I knew everything without having to be told. The being looked lovingly at me and I saw myself from inside. One is not judged over there, but one does see one's inner self and knows exactly how one should be doing things differently and how much one needs to better oneself. One feels so ashamed before one's mistakes that one made in life without anybody else pointing out these mistakes. I did not hear the voice of the being, he communicated with me telepathically directly into my head. He told me it would be better if I returned because of the children, since they didn't have anybody else who would take care of them as well as me. The spirit world would need me to complete a mission for them while back on earth. I would have preferred to stay in this place where everything was so peaceful and I was no longer sick. 

The being told me it was my choice. I thought about it again and decided to go back because of the children who still needed me. The next thing I was back in my body but if felt as though I was wearing a dress that was two sizes too small for me. Instantly I experienced acute difficulty breathing along with heart pain and everything hurt from my fall down the stairs. I tried to stand up which I finally did. I was sure that an angel had followed me into this world. I could see him. He took me and helped me to my feet. My little daughter was still sitting on the step so this experience couldn't have lasted that long since a ten month old child doesn't stay put for very long. It seemed like hours that I had been gone.

Afterwards I collapsed several times more. Mostly I experienced the exact same thing as described above, I went through the tunnel into a light and an angel was waiting there, this after I had floated for a while by the ceiling. Except twice, I came into an unbelievably beautiful meadow with flowers whose colors can't be found on earth. The light being was already there waiting for me. He was always so friendly, loving, and full of warmth. He took me over the meadow to a city surrounded by old stonewalls. We went through a gate and then the angel led me to a place with a fountain and a spectacular primordial olive tree. There was also a bench where we sat down. The angel looked at me and said, here is where you will receive a lot of knowledge, which you will need for your upcoming task. I was not told what the task would be. Then the angel gave me some water from the fountain to drink and all at once, I knew everything. It was a real chore to return to this life on earth. There everything is so warm and light and the colors so intense and I knew that I was home, without a doubt. I also saw that I couldn't leave my children to stay in this carefree place. The angel sent me back over the meadow and into my body. Since then I have a constant homesickness for that place but know that I will return there once my mission is complete.

Three years after my first NDE, I found that I could heal with my hands. Even before that, I often knew what was coming in the near future or that I was needed in a certain place and time to help someone. I had always been in tune. I see auras and can see what is happening somewhere else in that moment. I see dead people sometimes who want to help living relatives and they send me to them. In one case, I healed a lung tumor in one day, which had just been diagnosed the week before. Two days later, I called the patient who told me the doctors had examined her again and no signs of the tumor could be found. The patient was then cancer free for five years without any kind of therapies. I had to tell her that she had to change her life, she had to get out of her difficult family situation. Otherwise, she would only live long enough to see her youngest son graduate. That would have been in five years. But she didn't have the strength to make the change. Shortly after her son graduated she started feeling ill. The cancer had returned and she died within six months.

I have healed many times, healed broken bones and other things. I always had angelic help and guidance. I always ask my patients not to tell others who healed them because I want to lead a normal life away from any limelight. My three children are grown and college graduates. All three of them inherited my allergy problems. I spend a lot of time creating recipes that will help them with their health problems and give them good quality of life. I can't heal their illnesses. I teach them that despite health problems they should never give up because there are always new cures and being physically handicapped is a way to further develop yourself and show yourself and others the possibilities of true spiritual possibilities.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  28.3.1992

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'Anaphylaktischer Schock infolge lange unerkannter Histaminintoleranz und multipler Allergien nach Verabreichung unverträglicher Medikamente und Nichteinhaltung einer histaminarmen Diät, weil die Krankheit lange nicht erkannt wurde. Ich war zwar ständig k  Anaphylactic shock, asphyxiation as a reaction to medications along with undiagnosed allergies to foods.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     You get the feeling there is no time over there. This NDE didn't last long but I had the feeling that I spent hours in that other world. Making the decision itself seemed to last an hour. Space is not the same as here. It seems unending over there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    One does not hear with the ears. Telepathic communication happens directly through the head.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I was pulled through a tunnel. It was narrow and not hard. I went through it very fast but didn't feel fear or uncertainty.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     A being of light, most likely a kind of angel. He was waiting for me at the end of the tunnel in the white light. Face clearly contoured and wonderful, hair and robe made of shimmering white light. I had the feeling that he knew me and was happy to see me. It filled me with awe. He emanated so much love, goodness and wisdom. I would have to call him all-powerful, in our limited language. He communicated with me telepathically - which means I did not hear his voice, he spoke directly into my head.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   So very bright but not blinding. A being of light stood in the light, a kind of angel. His face was wonderful with beautiful contours. He was wearing a robe made of white light. The robe and his hair didn't have any sharp edges; it was just shimmering white light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     ja, siehe Punkt 3. Einige Male ein helles Licht, zweimal einen Ort am Ende des Tunnels mit schöner Wiese und bunten Blumen und eine alte Stadt mit einem Brunnen und einem alten Olivenbaum. Das Lichtwesen, das mich immer am Ende des Tunnels erwartete, führte mich dort hin.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, joy, unending lightness, being home again.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I described for the children what life would be like for them had I not returned. It's as though I saw it in a movie. That my mother would be so forlorn without me, that my father wouldn't care for her but instead would immerse himself in his music hobby and spend time with his friends.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I again knew why I had taken on earthly form and what is really important in this physical world, namely to help others and to give as much love as possible to your family and to others. I also knew that I was my children's guardian angel. I was supposed to give them a good home and teach them important things that they would take with them on their way: that the world is much more that what science says it is. I had to teach them about which morals are important as they lead to the ability to help others be happy. That the only thing we take with us when we die is the love we have shared with others. I was told I had another mission to fulfill. Three years later I found I could heal, see the future, be in two places at once, that I must be of help, and that I can see auras.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am having increasing difficulties with 'poisonous' or superficial relationships. I have fewer friends since I don't stay in contact with superficial or hateful friends. People waste so much time and energy otherwise. It's better to be around love and people who are loving.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words fail to describe the experience. The intensity of feelings and perceptions, the depth of love that one feels over there cannot be described in words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Healing abilities, seeing auras, seeing the future, being in two places at once. In this way I can see who needs my help and it always proves to be true.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of unending love that exists over there. The knowing that you are finally home. I no longer fear death and know exactly that I am returning to that place as soon as my task is done here. I have never experienced in this lifetime anything remotely close to the overwhelming love and wisdom over there. This happened nineteen years ago and has not lessened.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was about two years before I spoke about it. I mentioned it to my doctor but he said I was imagining it all. My husband didn't believe me. He finally changed his mind when I healed his broken ribs a year later. I told my mother and she asked me to see a psychiatrist right away.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   Once I heard about it on TV. Since I thought it was all hogwash I only watched for ten minutes.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was more real than anything else that I have lived on earth. I have not changed my mind on this.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     This experience exists outside of time and accompanies one and is always present - it imprints itself on how one lives life. My life changed completely, not on the outside, but within. The tasks that I was supposed to fulfill began to come to pass three years after.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   More anaphylactic shocks which led to NDEs. See main narrative.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I think a lot about these experiences. In hindsight, I would say my life would be so much less full without having had the experiences. They changed my way of seeing things, like my way of looking at morality, or discerning what is important in life and what isn't. The things I do I do because they are the right things to do and not to get recognition. It's important to live one's life in this manner so that one does not carry shame into the light.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1renate_nde.html