{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rene_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Rene A NDE 4139","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rene A NDE 4139  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rene A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1988 Rene A NDE 4139  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I always knew that life was far more different than what clergy had been teaching. I was raised within a Presbyterian circle of influence. I always tried to have an open mind. My Out of Body Experience happened when I was twenty-one years old.

I was in the military at the time. I was internally injured and suffered horribly for weeks on end. I thought I was suffering some sort of intestinal upsets. I thought I had a bladder infection. Finally, one morning I awakened to find I could not move. I was paralyzed from the waist down. I was hemorrhaging blood and pus out of my navel that had exploded to the size of a medium sized cauliflower. I was in agony. I was taken by friends to the dispensary, where upon first examination, and to the shock of all attendants there, was immediately rushed to a military hospital ten miles away. Upon admittance, no one knew what to do with me. No one had ever experienced anything like what I was suffering. I was a first. I was given powerful painkillers, and sedated for the night.

The next day, the first of many surgeons visited me, and took a look at my belly. It was red hot, distended, and still oozing red and brown blood, and flowing pus like water. I couldn't eat or drink.

I was set up for emergency exploratory surgery the next day. The swelling, abscess, and severity of internal rotting thwarted any diagnosis. I was cut open from my navel to just above my genitalia. I was packed with gauze wick material, and returned to the ward. There I languished for months. Every day, the packing was changed, and I was not allowed to heal. After many months of suffering, I was told, that they had an idea of what was wrong with me. I had an internal rupture that had gone undetected for a long time.  It compounded itself, until I was urinating, passing blood, and culminated with the navel ripping open, and releasing the internal bleeding.

I was the first type of surgery of my kind in the history of that Military Hospital.

I was prepared for surgery. I was taken into the first room, where I was given the 'Happy Shot'. Sometime later, I was given an injection into my IV, and told to count to ten backwards. I remember getting to the count of three.

Next, I remember hearing someone say, I was going. I felt a hand take mine. I felt a chill, and heard a buzz or crackling. I was awake, and looking down on a group of people moving around a pale green room with white tile floor. In the center was a body covered in blood, and many bloody sheets. I saw intestines and organs in the opening of the body. I looked at it, and felt sorry for it; I then realized it was mine. I saw a man called Gary; give my body some kind of shock. It didn't respond.

Next, I was going away, into a mild to cool light. As I 'lifted', my body faded away, and I was just aware of something or someone informing me I wasn't there anymore. I was with a new experience that felt right. I felt a happiness and wanted to cry with joy, but couldn't. Then an endless reel of life peeled within my conscientiousness. I was being shown I was living a lie. I felt bad, and sad about it. I was told it was all right. My guide was someone called Salle or something like it. Then I was shown the cosmos of all reality. My soul sang out, 'I knew it' - this is where we live. I saw amazing energies and realities of all things. I wept as only a soul could weep. I was profoundly at peace, and filled with hope. I remember asking like a little kid, can I stay here?

I felt a sting, as I was told I had to return right then and now. I didn't want to. I smelled a sour sweet smell, and was awake, in the recovery room. I had been operated on and somehow made it though the ordeal.

Days later, I was told by a nurse, that the Red Cross had been notified, to contact my parents that I was going to die. My parents were devastated. I had no idea.

She also told me, that I had passed on, and was dead for several minutes. They had almost given up, and then I revived on my own for no known reason. She was incredibly kind to me, and we fell in love with each other temporarily. Her name was Judy.

The aircrew I assigned with, had written me off months earlier. That hurt my ego somewhat.

The total time I spent in the hospital from day one to release was a record. Six months.

I healed very slowly, and wasn't normal for a long time. I still have minor problems with my abdomen even today.

Every now and then, I have a vivid recall of the Near Death Experience - and it still has an effect upon me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1971 others since then.

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Surgery-related    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was being operated on. I had been near death for months, (very, very ill) when surgeons figured out what was wrong with me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After I left my body, I was led away, and entered the realm of total consciousness. My true self was nothing like the concept of self in the flesh.  That is what was the most startling and amazing thing about it all.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I thought I had been away for a long time. It seemed as though I had been pulled through time. Even though time doesn't exist.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was physically unconsciousness, yet aware I was alert to something new. When I realized I was out of my body, looking down on it, I felt sorry for it. I was amazed at what was happening. Then I was softly called and pulled away.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Crackling/snapping and vibration.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was aware of a light becoming more intense, and brighter. It was as if I was in very bright fog. It gave way to intelligence beyond mine.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     First was a navigator of sorts showing me what I was, and where I was. This being was more female-like, than male. 'She' was also very soft spoken and kind. She told me her name, and it was something like 'Salle' or 'Salla'. It was unusual.  I felt the presence of many other entities. They were lifting me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was all around my consciousness. It was alive with energy. It hummed.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     There is a realm of conscience that is the total of all things. I was aware of a silver string of connection, that goes from the crown or the aura on the head, to a glowing, vibrating energy that is everything at once. It was like I was apart of a higher knowledge. Part of all things at once.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Surprise, then submission. Relief and happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I had a total recall and flash of my life unroll before my inner self. It was very revealing, and somewhat frightening. It was all there.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I was very confused for some time. My mind was foggy, and unclear. I had trouble recalling people, events, and places. I still do not have a complete recall of my life before that event. It is very fragmented. Even today, certain things will come back, and I have a hard time distinguishing fact from fiction. I end up asking my mother lots of questions.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Presbyterian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in a higher power, and it drives everything.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in a higher power, and it drives everything.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was shown that life isn't the flesh. Life is the experience of the soul. The soul is energy. An energy vibration has its own unique tone or tune, but is receiving its source from an All Power. The All-Power, is a Cosmic Consciousness.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am no longer conflicted with myself or what my life means. I am able to love and accept fairly openly. I am aware that I am transgendered. I always knew I was different.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   But as time goes by, I am finding the words to describe what I experienced. At the time, I was confused, and perplexed. I wondered if I was alive or dead at first. I didn't know. I had to ask.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have names, and events surface in my mind, that I know will have significance in the near future. I often times think of someone, just before they die. Don't know why!  I have seen in my mind, the Tsunamis of Indonesia and Hurricanes that have hit the USA months before they happened. It always comes in my sleep. I have also foreseen a horrific firestorm that nearly destroys the USA. The fire is so intense; it actually growls and roars aloud. The fire can be seen from the moon.  I have witnessed/saw many aircraft falling out of the sky, all at once. They just drop. I think it is because there is no air.  Something foretells me, that there is going to be a plague/disease brought by the oceans. No one will know why for a long time.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was the sum total of it. It was what I was made aware of. I was enlightened. I no longer fear death. I am a part of much bigger thing than myself.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Sometimes I wait, if it is particularly awful. Otherwise, I tell my family or friends. They believe I am mildly prophetic.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   During a very violent car accident, which wouldn't be normally survivable, I felt something yank and hold me in place, as the car rolled over and over. The car had no seat belts. The vehicle was completely destroyed. I walked away, scratched and bruised, but unharmed.  I heard a voice say; 'I've got you' I was fifteen years old.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     At first confusion. Why was I allowed to die, and then be brought back again? I didn't want to come back. I was made aware that it wasn't time yet. I couldn't find answers to explain it. I just knew that I had been through, or experienced something remarkable.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am fully cognizant now, that I did indeed experience something out of this life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I travel OBE frequently. I call them flying events. I leave myself, and travel through layers of time/experience. I came back filled with happiness. I experience this as often as once a month. I am always just a little sad, that I can't do it at will. I have no control over it.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just that it was life altering. I am not the same person I was before the event.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I will answer any questions anyone has, best to my abilities.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rene_a_nde.html