{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rebekah_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Rebekah J NDE 7196","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rebekah J NDE 7196  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rebekah J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3649 Rebekah J NDE 7196  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was visiting relatives with my parents. They lived next door to the city pool. I went to the pool with my cousin. I was not able to swim but wanted to jump off the diving board. The kids at the pool said to just kick and I would be okay. I jumped off and hit the water. I panicked. I came up and went back down twice. The lifeguard wasn't watching and I went under the water a third time. 

Then suddenly I was somewhere else. I saw the most beautiful colors like a swirling rainbow tunnel. It was so bright. I saw shadowy figures like angels. I heard a voice. It was all around me. I do not know if it was male or female. It said, ‘you have a choice, you can continue on or go back.’ I thought for a moment then I thought, ‘I want to grow up and my parents would miss me’. The sense of peace and tranquility was overwhelming but I chose to go back. 

At that very moment, I was at the top of the water and close to the edge of the pool. The lifeguard stretched out her arm and pulled me out of the water. I was only under the water for a few seconds but when I was having my experience, it seemed to last about five minutes.  Bystanders told me my body sunk to the bottom then suddenly my body shot up like it was pushed up out of the water. I became conscious only after coming back to the top of the water. Because of my experience, I do not fear death. I see it as a wonderful next step to a better place

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 4 1979

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drowning    Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the tunnel: the colors were so vivid. I smelled flowers and heard the beautiful voice.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     While I was under the water time was slow. It seemed almost like time was suspended.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was so sharp. I had very poor eyesight as a child and could not see without my glasses, but I didn't need them in the tunnel.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was so sharp.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was like a swirling rainbow with the strong smell of flowers.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Angels

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was all over and also ahead of me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It was like a bubble.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and happiness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     My understanding of life is so different now. I know why I am here.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I wanted to grow up. I had a sense of an important purpose.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Because I know my spirit is on-going.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     My parents told me God was real but afterwards: I knew for myself.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   The voice was all around me. It didn't sound either male or female.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I saw angels but they did not speak. The voice I assumed was god.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     When I was in the tunnel I became aware that we live each life to learn and develop my spirit. Our human body is a vessel for our true self. Our spirit does not die only the vessel.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I came to understand we are all connected to god. Like spokes of a wheel.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably existsá

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The voice I believe was god.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   After my experience I never questioned: Why am I here? I knew I was going to be a mother and a healer. That's why I became a nurse.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We go thru life in order to develop our spirit.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably existsá

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     I wasn't actually told this but somehow I know it to be true.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     When we face challenges we grow

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is the most important gift we give ourselves.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes I treasure each relationship.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have a strong sense about people. Like if they are good or evil.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people just listen and don't comment.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real. When I became an adult I found out other people had similar experiences.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     We can't be all liars or having a mass hallucination.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rebekah_j_nde.html