{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1regina_nde.html","mytitle":"Regina NDE 22707","mylang":"de"}
          	        Regina NDE 22707  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Regina NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3075 Regina NDE 22707  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember having a tightness in my chest and feeling weak. I went to tell my dad that I wasn't feeling well, but he had already left for work. So I went back to my room thinking, ‘Maybe I'll feel better.’  I remember sitting on my bed and feeling short of breath. I must have passed out because the next thing I knew, I was staring up at the ceiling and floating closer and closer to it. I began to panic, feeling claustrophobic, being so close to the ceiling that I could touch it.  In my panic, I managed to turn over. As I looked down, I saw my body lying on the bed, eyes and mouth wide open. My lips were bluish-purple, and overall I looked pale blue. To the left of me there was a bright, sparkling shaft of light shining down from the ceiling right next to the bedroom door. What was unusual about this light was that it was *not* coming through the window. Scared, I knew I needed help but I couldn't go out the bedroom door, because I didn't dare to go near that strange light. 

So I decided to pound on the wall in hopes of getting my brother's attention. When I had gone back to my room a few minutes ago after trying to find my father, he had been in the living room, right next to my room, watching TV. To my surprise, when I attempted to BANG on the wall, I went THROUGH it and wound up in my closet. Once in the closet, I found some money that I had hidden from my brother. It had gotten lost during a time I had hidden it repeatedly in different places so he wouldn't find it, and I had finally lost track of it.   I then went through the closet wall into the living room where I saw my brother watching MTV and eating a bowl of cereal. A music video by Blind Melon called ‘No Rain’ was playing. I yelled at my brother but he just continued to eat his cereal. Then he did this really gross thing – he blew his nose into his hand (and I'm not going to mention what he did with it after that!)  He then went to the kitchen and poured another bowl of cereal, sat down on the couch, and yet again blew his nose in the same way. I realized he couldn't hear or see me. Fear set in, and my thoughts went from, ‘I need help’ to ‘I need to get back to my body.’ I passed through the closet wall again, back through my bedroom wall and to the area of my bed, where I managed to situate myself directly above my body. As I was floating, looking down at myself, I suddenly I felt as though I were being sucked back in. And instantly it felt like someone punched me from the inside. I felt my heart bang against my chest as I gasped very loudly, taking in that first breath. I jumped up, feeling full of energy at first, yet realizing right away that I was very weak and could barely stand.

Confused about what had just happened to me and questioning if it was real, I went to find my brother. He was still in the living room, and he exclaimed, ’You look blue! You look like a ghost!’ I walked across the hall to look at myself in the bathroom mirror.  I was shocked to see how I looked – just the way I had seen myself from above – pale blue skin, bluish-purple lips, and you could even see the veins in my face.  I went back to my brother and told him what had happened. He was shocked that I was able to tell him everything that I had seen him do and that I could describe the music video he had been watching. I went right to the closet and pulled down the money I had hidden, which of course was right where I had seen it as I had floated by. I didn't tell my dad about any of this.  I was afraid that no one would believe me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1993

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain       I believe I lost consciousness during an asthma attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I felt extremely light, as if I could float away. I was actually able to pass through walls.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Yes, very bright and sparkling. I had seen this same light in previous experiences.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I know my sense of hearing and sight were the same. Smell, not sure. My sense of touch was off, not the same.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Frightened at first, because I was unsure about what was happening. I feared that I was dying. Then I became calm and focused when I was trying to find help and then when I was trying to get back to my body.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was able to see, hear, and later describe everything I had seen my younger brother do in another room. I attempted to bang on the wall and went through it. I had yelled but had not been heard.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     ‘Uncertain’ because I had had experiences of this nature before this one.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     No, not ‘after’ – before AND after.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The worst was thinking I was dying. Not that I was afraid for myself, but for my family and how it would affect them. Also, not being able to share my experience with others without people thinking I was crazy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My brother – he was shocked and amazed. I didn't share it with anyone else, because as a child I had tried telling my mom of an experience and it had scared her.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1regina_nde.html