{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rebecca_p_other.html","mytitle":"Rebecca P Other 9692","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rebecca P Other 9692  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rebecca P Other  					  					  						Home  						Classification Other  						5227 Rebecca P Other 9692  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I was at the beach with my family. There was a red flag up to warn people not to go in the water. I was about 13 years old give or take. We were with family friends in Florida. I decided to follow my dad and his friend out into the water. The current was super strong and it was hard to walk. I couldn’t keep up with them and they went on ahead of me. I tried calling out to them but the wind was so strong they couldn’t hear me. I got taken under by a wave and every time I tried to come up for air I got taken down by another one. I couldn’t get out of the rip tide. I was taken under again.   

I accepted I was dying and felt peace. Lots of peace, and I thought wow death isn’t as bad as I thought. I came up out of my body and saw myself spinning under the waves, I was also in my body at the same time spinning under the waves, so I was both witnessing my death and experiencing it. I felt peace. Then I remembered a story I heard about two mice that fell into a vat of milk. One mouse gave up and drowned and the other kept swimming until it churned butter and could crawl out. Then I had the thought, what mouse are you going to be? So I remembered something I heard on TV when I was young.  If you ever get stuck out at sea to swim parallel to the shore. I went back into my body and started swimming hard parallel to the shore and I didn’t stop. I swam toward the sound of a child playing on the shore. The child’s voice was like my hope in that moment. 

I made it back. I was hurting emotionally because I felt like my parents didn’t care and because no one knew I was gone. My mom on the beach didn’t know and my dad in the water didn’t know. I often remember this story and throughout my trials in life I’m always asking myself which mouse I’m going to be.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 2022  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Drowning       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Coming close to drowning  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I don’t think so except for the fact that I could see in two different places. Like watching myself die and feeling myself die at the same time.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the time of death when I started dying.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could be in two places at once so to speak.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn’t hear anything just had really bright intelligent thoughts  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Lots of fear and hopelessness and then peace more peace than can be described  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I was a Catholic but not practicing.  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I had other experiences that changed my beliefs.  

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Even though I’m Catholic, I tend to mix different spiritual beliefs. I am also in the process of joining a Native American Tribe. I have some Hindu beliefs, and some Muslim. I believe in Spirit.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     The only thing that wasn’t consistent was I believed death would be painful and it wasn’t.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became closer to Christ and more spiritual learning as much about spiritual matters as possible.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I told God I have so much to do, but I didn’t see Him or Hear Him. If I did it sounded like my own thoughts so I think I was One with God. I also think the thoughts about the parable and the survival tactic came from God or my angel or a ministering Spirit.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had a knowing I have a lot to do in this life  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I reached the conclusion there is life after death and told God I have so much to do.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     After the event everything was calm and I didn’t think too much of it except on occasion. Then I opened myself up spiritually and went through severe spiritual trauma. I can see and hear in the Spirit now but I have experienced a lot of darkness.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can see and hear in the Spirit realm after I asked God for the gift to.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The message to myself not to give up  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Unsure but people were genuinely positive about this experience  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sometimes trials happen and I’ll go back to that message of which mouse are you going to be  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No            				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rebecca_p_other.html