{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1regina_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Regina D NDE 5354","mylang":"de"}
          	        Regina D NDE 5354  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Regina D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2817 Regina D NDE 5354  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I can remember being underwater and fighting the wave that had sucked me under. The next thing I remember is being completely relaxed and feeling serene. I have a photographic memory so I can remember seeing the green water clearly, and that I was moving in a circle with the wave. 

I was told later that after the wave washed me ashore, people moved me away from the water and my aunt performed CPR on me. My out of body experience occurred from this location on the shore. My point of view was not from where my body was; instead, I was next to my body facing my parents. My parents were standing behind my body.  I must have turned around. I did not turn to look at them; it is just naturally what I saw. 

It is difficult for me to describe what I saw. My view bobbed up and down as if I were floating. It didn't look like a color, or a black and white, video. There were bits of color but the lines between colors were not totally clear. It was almost like a fuzzy picture with the different colors floating and bobbing around. There was a lot of commotion and noise that seemed to be muffled. 

I believe the muffled noise was all the living people standing around me (there were a lot of them).  Above the muffled noise, I heard loud and clear a woman scream, ‘NO!  SHE'S TOO YOUNG!’ Although I have no evidence who shouted, I have a strong belief it was my deceased grandmother. This event occurred at her beach house, which is where she had died. I am certain it was not my parents screaming, because I could see them standing completely still, mouths dropped, in shock. 

Suddenly and without warning, I was pulled from this location (floating next to my body) back into my body. I say that I was pulled because it was not a decision I had made. I was literally sucked back into my body by an unknown force (possibly, because my aunt had successfully performed CPR). When I returned to consciousness, I immediately looked to my parents who were standing behind me. My father was still standing completely still, mouth dropped, in shock. Four men were holding my mother back because she was screaming and trying to come at me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Unsure

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    I drowned.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had drowned and someone was giving me CPR. At the time, I was unaware of what was happening. I did not understand I had drowned and that someone was giving me CPR but it was explained to me after I came back.

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   See narrative above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The experience was so brief it lasted less than a minute. I guess I was most conscious when I looked at my parents, but I believe that's only true because I am a visual person. I could hear the woman scream most clearly. I looked at my parents and heard the woman scream at different times.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I've already explained a lot of this in the above sections. My vision was not as clear as usual, not as bright. Objects were not transparent but the edges were fuzzy. I still had depth perception.  What I think was most interesting is that I never turned around to look at my parents. I was immediately facing them.  I didn't ask or think to find them, they were just the first and last things I saw. I never looked away.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was a lot of commotion from all the people standing around me, but it was all muffled and I didn't make any of it out. I heard a woman scream loud and clear 'NO! SHE'S TOO YOUNG!'

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I believe the woman's voice I heard was my deceased grandmother but I am not certain. I really have no reason to believe this but I feel strongly about it. I never saw any spirit because I never turned away from looking at my parents (who were living). The woman's voice screamed 'NO! SHE'S TOO YOUNG'. I feel this voice was a spirit because it was the only thing I could hear clearly.  In real life, there was a lot of noise around me because there were a lot of panicky people standing around me, but all this noise was muffled. The woman's scream was loud and clear. I also feel this was my grandmother because this occurred on the property she had died in.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was just taking all the information in. I guess I was confused. There was a lot of commotion around me so I wasn't thinking at all, simply observing. I think my experience was so short I didn't have time to process what I was seeing and come up with an emotion in response. I was simply observing. I may have felt a little confused and concerned.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'None.  I was raised catholic but was too young to accept or reject this religion or form my own beliefs; However, I did believe in Heaven and Hell and Catholicism's view of God at the time.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am certain there is life after death.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   My religious beliefs did not change instantly but now I am a spiritualist.  I believe in reincarnation and that heaven and hell are created by our own minds.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am certain there is life after death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   This happened to me as a child and I did not give it much thought at the time. There was a lot of noise because there were many people standing around me yelling. It was very quick and there was a lot of commotion, which makes it difficult for me to put the pieces together.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have read several people's minds. I have also seen images that other people are thinking of. I have had entire conversations with a deceased person. I was on a date with a man whose brother had died recently. I had never met his brother, didn't know his name, and had never seen pictures of anything. The man I was on a date with didn't believe me until I told him his brother's name, described what he looked like (even his glasses), and knew information about how his brother had died. Although I have no control over whether or not I read someone's mind, it has happened several different times with several different unrelated people and it's been happening for several years.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was especially meaningful to me that my grandmother was there looking out for me. I'm not sure if it was the CPR or my grandmother that launched me back into my body. My grandmother being there gives me hope that I can return to her beach house and be with her, although she has probably moved on since this occurred. It's also comforting to know that although my grandmother is deceased, she still looked out for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't think about it for probably another 17 years because it happened when I was a child, and I didn't think about much as a child. After it happened, I just went to bed and when I woke up the next morning, I just wanted to go and play. It was only after I watched a video about the NDE foundation that I thought about it. I told my best friend and she believed me. I don't know how she was influenced about it.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     As I said, I didn't think about it at all until I was an adult because this occurred when I was a child, and I didn't think about much as a child. I just went to sleep because it was an exhausting day and then the next morning I just wanted to play.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am absolutely certain I saw my parents standing behind me in shock. How else would I have known they were standing behind me so that I could turn to look at them immediately after returning to consciousness.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1regina_d_nde.html