{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rebecca_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Rebecca P Probable NDE 360","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rebecca P Probable NDE 360  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rebecca P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1356.5 Rebecca P Probable NDE 360  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					  				  

  				    (None given)
  					Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  june 1997

          NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness                 Hemorrhage due to Crohne's Disease

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       unconscious

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     ascendance,  tremendous colors of dark blue, white, and gold...peace increase as I ascended...everything reversed as I returned to my body

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My father...and others unknown to me

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Rose colored pleasantly warm and perfectly loving to infinity, where the tunnel enters into

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute LOVE, connectedness, magnificently luminescent colors, perfect peace.  Totally an individual, yet connected to ALL

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     We are here as students in the classroom called earth...we are here to teach and learn to LOVE one another.....each of us is given a common gift of communication and an individual gift through which to communicate the love(vocation)

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Given choice to stay or return to body by the CreatorSpirit....THE LOVE....I chose to return only because as was verified to me my work was not completed part of which was a friend(my Lesbian lover) who needed me greatly and was suffering terribly by my sudden passing...God only cares about the purity of our love for one another...Deliberate hurting is the path to Hell...Major violations of the LOVE                                              

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Roman Catholic

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More universal view and very different personality                                                    

                                                                                                         After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Increased ability for premonition and distance viewing  Also gained ability to connect with others dead and alive.  I can't wear wrist watches.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was great from the tunnel on except when I saw the grief of my lover left behind. The return trip was not very pleasant

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain                                                                     				    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rebecca_p_probable_nde.html