{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V12 1896-7","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v12_1896-7.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V12 1896-7","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF The
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
VOLUME XII.
(CONTAINING PARTS XXX—XXXI,
WITH APPENDIX.)
1896-7.
'»
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
London :
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER and CO., Limited,
CHARING CROSS ROAD.
1897.
G. 0J
(RECAP)
PROCEEDINGS
OF THe
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX TO VOLUME XII.
(PARTS XXXX-XXL, WITH APPENDIX.)
1896-97.
A.
Aksakoff, M. Alex, " The Precursors of Spiritism," by—Review of ... 319
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research, List of Members 381
Anderson, Rev. W. M.—Report on " The Durweston Case " ... 91, 93
Anonymously Contributed Cases 20, 33, 34, 43
Arundel Case, The , 67
Automatism—Normal Motor—Recent Experiments in, E. W. H. Myers on 316
,, Psychic, and " Speaking with Tongues." By A. Le Baron 277
B.
B., Mr. and Mrs., Case contributed by 103
B., Mrs., Case contributed by 101
B. , Mrs. , Case contributed by 108
Barrows, C. M., Suggestion without Hypnotism, Experiments in Prevent
ing or Suppressing Pain 21
Bennett, E. N., Report on " The Ham Case " 100
Beunett, Prof. J. Hughes, Theory of Hypnotism ... .. 161, 215, 216
Bernheim, Prof., Theory of Hypnotism... 159, 216, 225, 228, 229, 230, 236, 238
Braid, James, his Work and Writings, Dr. J. Milne Bramwell on ... 127
„ Experiments in and Theory of Hypnotism ... ... 127i 204
I * A ,% 4 >•*
s i I44r,
ii Index to Volume XII.
Bramford Case, The k 73
Bramwell, Dr. J. Milne—James Braid, his Work and Writings 127
,, ,, Personally Observed Hypnotic Phenomena ... 176
,, ,, What is Hypnotism ? 204
,, „ ,, Analysis and Comparison of Theories on
204-258
Burrell, Dr. H. L., Case contributed by 41
C.
C. , Mrs. , Case contributed by
Chadwick, J. R., Case contributed by ...
Charcot, Prof., Theory of Hypnotism ...
Christensen, Mrs., Case contributed by .. .
Clairvoyance, Telepathic
Crookes, W., F.R.S., Presidential Address
Crystal Vision—Some Experiments in, Prof. J
Currass, A., Report on " The Worksop Case "
D.
D., Mks., Experiments in Crystal Vision 259
D., Mr. and Mrs., Cases contributed by 263,265, 270,272,275
Dea, Mr. and Mrs., Report on " The Waterford Case" 80
Delboeuf, Prof., Experiments in and Theory of Hypnotism 179, 232, 233,
236, 247
Durweston Case, The 90
E.
Elders, Head Constable, Report on " The Waterford Case " 78
Esdaile, Dr. , Theory of Hypnotism 204
F.
Future Life, A Scientific Demonstration of, bj T. Jay Hudson, Review of 330
Forel, Prof., on the Theory of Hypnotism 209, 224, 239
H. Hyslop on
22, 38
28, 42
£05, 206, 257
23, 38
264, 272-274
338
259
56
Index to Volume XII. iii
G.
GaLE, Harlow, Review of T. J. Hudson's " Scientific Demonstration of a
Future Life " 330
Gardner, J., Case contributed by 108
Glossary of Terms used in Psycbical Research, by F. W. H. Myers ... 166
Gurney, Edmund, Memorial Library Catalogue 357
, „ Theory of Hypnotism 216, 226, 242
n.
Ham Case, The 95
Hansen and Lehmann, Messrs., Experiments in Involuntary Whispering
in Relation to Thought-Transference, Professor Sidgwick on 298
Harris, J. H., Case contributed by 28, 43
Hart, Ernest, Theory of Hypnotism 212
Hayes, J. W., Report on "The Waterford Case " 78
Heidenhain, Prof., Theory of Hypnotism 156,210
Higgs, P. C, Report on " The Worksop Case" 55
Hilprecht, Dr. Hermann, Cases contributed by 13, 14
Hodgson, Dr., Evidence as to Mr. Barrows' Experiments in Suggestion
without Hypnotism 36
Honey, Mrs., Case contributed by 27, 42
Hudson, Thomson Jay, "A Scientific Demonstration of a Future Life,"
by— Review of 330
Hughes, F. S., Report on "The Wem Case " 60
Hypnotism (Miscellaneous) 28, 29, 129-162, 176-203, 204-258
,, Analysis and Comparison of Different Schools of Thought on
204-258
Braid's Work in 127-166
Curative and Functional Effects ... 141, 143-145, 151-154, 197, 198
,, Memory (and Post-Hypnotic Memory) 193, 195, 199
Moral Aspects of ... 149-151, 157,198,200,202, 229-239,251
„ Power of Resistance to Suggestions 149-151, 197-202, 229-241
,, Suggestion without 21
„ Time-Sense, During ... 179-192
Hyslop, Prof. J. H., Some Experiments in Crystal Vision 259
J.
James, Prof. W., A Case of Psychic Automatism, Preface to 277
,, ,, Presidential Address 2
Jandachenko, Capt., Case recorded by 319
iv indeti to Volume Xlt.
Jeatt'reson, Rev. H. H., Case contributed by ... 112
Jeflery, R., Report on " The Bramford Case" 73
Johnson, Miss Alice, A Case of Information Supernormally Acquired ... 116
K.
K., Miss, Case contributed by 81
Kavanagh, J., Report on " The Ham Case " 98
King, P.C. H., Report on " The Ham Case " 96
Kronhelm, J. de, Case contributed by ... ... ... ... ... ... 116
L.
LamBerTOn, Prof. W. A , Case contributed by 11
Le Baron, Albert, A Case of Psychic Automatism, and " Speaking with
Tongues" 277
Leaf, Walter, Litt. D.—Review of " The Precursors of Spiritism " by M.
A. Aksakoff 319
Lehmann and Hansen, Messrs., Experiments in Involuntary Whispering
in Relation to Thought-Transference, Professor Sidgwick on 298
Liebeault, Prof., Theory of Hypnotism ... 158, 197, 207, 227, 229, 232, 236, 237
Liegeois, Prof., On the Theory of Hypnotism 158
Lynch, Mrs., Case contributed by 25, 39
M.
Maury, M., Cases recorded by 18-20
Meetings of the Society 1, 175, 337
Members, Associates, ?,nd Hon. Members of the S.P.R., List of... 359, 381
,, ,, American Branch 381
Meyers, Mrs. , Case contributed by 30, 43
Moll, A., On the Theory of Hypnotism 229, 239
Morse, C. W., Case contributed by 26, 39, 41
Myers, F. W. H., Glossary of terms used in Psychical Research 166
,, ,, Hypnotism and the Subliminal Consciousness ... 243-258
,, ,, Motor Automatism 316
,, Note on Mr. Le Baron's Case 295
Index to Volume £JI.
N.
Xewbold, W. Romaine, Experimental Induction of Automatic Processes,
Review of - 316-318
,, ,, Sub-conscious Reasoning 11, 123, 124
Newman, Mr., Report on " The Durweston Case " 91
Nicol, Rev. R., Case contributed by 109
O.
Officers and Council of the S.P.R, List of—for 1897 358
O'Shaughnessy, Dr., Experiments on the Effects of Narcotics 136
P.
P. , Ellen, Case of 81, 86
Petrovo-Solovovo, M., Evidence with regard to Case of Supernormal
Information 116
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of 125
Podmore, F., On Poltergeists 45
Poltergeists, Phenomena of 45
Precursors of Spiritism, by A. Aksakoff, Review of . . . 319
Presidential Addresses 2, 338
Presidents of the S.P.R., 1882-1896 358
Psychic Automatism, A Case of 277
R.
Reviews 316, 319, 330
Rivers, General Pitt, Case contributed by 109
Rolfe, J., Report on "The Ham Case " 97
S.
Shchapoff, M., Case recorded by 322
Sidgwick, Prof. H., On Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen's Experiments in
Involuntary Whispering in Relation to Thought-Transference ... 298
Solomons, Leon M., "Normal Motor Automatism," Recent Experiments
in, Review of 316
" Speaking with Tongues," A Case of 277
vi Index to Volume XII.
Stein, Gertrude, " Normal Motor Automatism," Recent Experiments in,
Review of 316
Subconscious Reasoning, W. Romaine Newbold on 11
Subliminal Consciousness, Phenomena pointing to 11, 116,277,316
,, ,, and Hypnotism 243-258
Suggestion without Hypnotism, C. M. Barrows on 21
T.
T., Mr., Case contributed by 106, 107
Taylor, Lieut.-Col. Le M., Case contributed by 81
„ ,, ,, Report on " Arundel Case " 67
Telepathic Dreams and Impressions ... ... . . ... ... 259-276
Terminology of Psychical Research, A Glossary of 166
Thought - Transference, Experiments in Involuntary Whispering in
Relation to 298
,, ,, Comparative Tables of Results 302, 312, 315
W.
Waterford Case, The 77
Wem Case, The 58
Westlake, E., Report on the Durweston Case .. 90
,, ,, ,, Ham Case 99
Whispering, Involuntary, in Relation to Experiments in Thought-
Transference, Prof. Sidgwick on 298
White, J. , Account of '' The Worksop Case " 52
Woodfin, T. H., Case contributed by 25, 39
Worksop Case, The 45
Z.
Z. Family, Case contributed by 105
Zdanovitch, Vincent, A Case of Information Supernormally Acquired ... 116
COZLSTTZEZLSTTS-
PAGE
PART XXX.
General Meetings ........... 1
Address by the President, Professor William James .... 2
Sub-conscious Reasoning. By Wm. Romaine Newbold ... 11
Suggestion without Hypnotism, an Account of Experiments in prevent
ing or suppressing Pain. By C. M. Barrows ... 21
Poltergeists. By Frank Podmore ....... 45
A Case of Information Supernormally Acquired. By Miss Alice
Johnson 116
Supplement.
James Braid ; His Work and Writings. By Dr. J. Milne
Bramwell 127
Glossary of Terms used in Psychical Research. By F.W.H.
Myers 166
PART XXXI.
General Meetings ..... .... 175
Personally Observed Hypnotic Phenomena. By Dr. J. Milne
Bramwell .......... 176
What is Hypnotism 1 By Dr. J. Milne Bramwell .... 204
Some Experiments in Crystal-Vision. By Professor James H.
Hyslop 259
A Case of Psychic Automatism, including " Speaking with Tongues.1'
By Albert Le Baron. Communicated by Professor
William James ......... 277
Supplement.
Involuntary Whispering Considered in Relation to Experiments
in Thought-Transference. By Professor Henry Sidgwick 298
Recent Experiments in Normal Motor Automatism. By
F. W. H. Myers 316
Reviews :—
Mr. Aksakoffs "The Precursors of Spiritism for the last
250 years. " By Walter Leaf, Litt. D. . . . 319
Mr. T. J. Hudson's " A Scientific Demonstration of the
Future Life." By Harlow Gale .... 330
Appendix to Part XXXI.
General Meeting ........... 33<
Address by the President, William Crookes, F.R.S 338
Supplementary Catalogue of the Edmund Gurney Library . . 357
Officers and Council for 1897 ........ 358
List of Members and Associates ....... 359
List of Members and Associates of the American Branch . " 381
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 76th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, December 6th, at 4 p.m. ; Professor
Sidgwick in the chair.
" Miss X." read a second provisional account of her " Enquiry
into Second-sight in the Highlands."
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read a case from his paper on " The
Subliminal Self," which appeared in the Proceedings, Part XXIX.
The 77th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
January 31st, at 4 p.m. ; Mr. H. Arthur Smith in the chair.
Professor William James' " Presidential Address " was read by
Mr. F. W. H. Myers, and is printed below.
The paper by Mr. C. M. Barrows on " Suggestion without
Hypnotism," printed below, was also read by Mr. Myers.
The 78th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
March 13th, at 8.30 p.m. ; Mr. R. Pearsall Smith in the chair.
Mr. F. W. H. Myers read a paper on " Sub-conscious Reasoning "
by Dr. W. Romaine Newbold, Assistant Professor of Philosophy in
the University of Pennsylvania, which is printed below.
Selections were read from Dr. Hodgson's " Notes on further
Trance Phenomena with Mrs. Piper," which will, it is hoped, be
published in a future number of the Proceedings.
The 79th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
April 24th, at 4 p.m. ; the President, Mr. W. Crookes, in the chair.
Mr. F. Podmore read part of his paper on " Poltergeists," printed
below.
A paper communicated by Professor W. James on "A case of
Psychic Automatism, including ' speaking with tongues,' " was read
by Mr. F. W. H. Myers, and will, it is hoped, appear in a future
number of the Proceedings.
B
2 President'8 Address.
I.
ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT,
Professor William James.
The Presidency of the Society for Psychical Research resembles a
mouse-trap. Broad is the path and wide is the way that leadeth
thereinto. Flattering bait is spread before the entrance : the dis
tinguished names of one's predecessors in the office ; the absence of
any active duties ; England and America symbolically made one in
that higher republic where no disputed frontiers or foreign offices
exist ;—and all the rest of it. But when the moment comes to
retrace one's steps and go back to private life, like Cincinnatus to his
plough, then comes the sorrow, then the penalty for greatness. The
careless presidential mouse finds the wires all pointing now against
him, and to get out there is no chance, unless he leave some portion
of his fur. So in resigning my office to my worthier successor, I send
this address to be read across the ocean as my ransom, not unaware, as
I write it, that the few things I can say may well fall short of the
dignity of the occasion and the needs of the cause for which our
Society exists.
Were psychical research as well organised as the other sciences are,
the plan of a presidential address would be mapped out in advance.
It could be nothing but a report of progress, an account of such new
observations and new conceptions as the interim might have brought
forth. But our active workers are so few compared with those
engaged in more familiar departments of natural learning, and the
phenomena we study so fortuitous and occasional, that two years must,
as a rule, prove too short an interval for regular accounts of stock to
be taken. Looking back, however, on our whole dozen years or more
of existence, one can appreciate what solid progress we have made.
Disappointing as our career has doubtless been to those of our early
members who expected definite corroboration or the final coup de
grace to be given in a few short months to such baffling questions as
that of physical mediumship, to soberer and less enthusiastic minds
the long array of our volumes of Proceedings must suggest a feeling
of anything but discouragement. For here, for the first time in the
history of these perplexing subjects, we find a large collection of
records to each of which the editors and reporters have striven to
President's Address. 3
attach its own precise co-efficient of evidential value, great or small, by
getting at every item of first-hand evidence that could be attained, and
by systematically pointing out the gaps. Only those who have tried
to reach conclusions of their own by consulting the previous litera
ture of the occult, as vague and useless, for the most part, as it is
voluminous, can fully appreciate the immense importance of the new
method which we have introduced. Little by little, through con
sistently following this plan, our Proceedings are extorting respect
from the most unwilling lookers-on, and I should like emphatically
to express my hope that the impartiality and completeness of record
which has been their distinguishing character in the past, will be held
to even more rigorously in the future. It is not as a vehicle of
conclusions of our own, but as a collection of documents that may
hereafter be resorted to for testing the conclusions and hypotheses of
anybody, that they will be permanently important. Candour must be
their very essence, and all the hesitations and contradictions that
the phenomena involve must appear unmitigatedly in their pages.
Collections of this sort are usually best appreciated by the rising
generation. The young anthropologists and psychologists who will
soon have full occupancy of the stage will feel, as we have felt, how
great a scientific scandal it has been to leave a great mass of human
experience to take its chances between vague tradition and credulity on
the one hand and dogmatic denial at long range on the other, with no
body of persons extant who are willing and competent to study the
matter with both patience and rigour. There have been isolated
experts, it is true, before now. But our Society has for the first time
made their abilities mutually helpful.
If I were asked to give some sort of dramatic unity to our history,
I should say first that we started with high hopes that the hypnotic
field would yield an important harvest, and that these hopes have
subsided with the general subsidence of what may be called the
hypnotic wave. Secondly, I should say that experimental thought-
transference has yielded a less abundant return than that which in the
first year or two seemed not unlikely to come in. Professor Richet's
supposition that if the unexplained thing called thought-transference
be ever real, its causes must, to some degree, work in everybody at all
times (so that in any long series of card-guessings, for example, there
ought always to be some excess of right answers above the chance
number) is, I am inclined to think, not very well substantiated.
Thought-transference may involve a critical point, as the physicists
call it, which is passed only when certain psychic conditions are
realized, and otherwise not reached at all—just as a big conflagration
will break out at a certain temperature, below which no conflagration
B 2
4 President's Address.
whatever, whether big or little, can occur. We have published records
of experiments on at least thirty subjects, roughly speaking, and many
of these were strikingly successful. But their types are heterogeneous ;
in some cases the conditions were not faultless ; in others the observa
tions were not prolonged ; and generally speaking, we must all share in
a regret that the evidence, since it has reached the point it has
reached, should not grow more voluminous still. For whilst it cannot
be ignored by the candid mind, it yet, as it now stands, may fail to
convince coercively the sceptic. Any day, of course, may bring in fresh
experiments in successful picture-guessing. But meanwhile, and lack
ing that, we can only point out that our present data are strengthened
in the flank, so to speak, by all observations that tend to corroborate
the possibility of other kindred phenomena, such as telepathic
impression, clairvoyance, or what is called " test-mediumship." The
wider genus will naturally cover the narrower species with its
credit.
Now, as regards the work of the Society in these latter regards,
we can point to solid progress. First of all we have that masterpiece
of intelligent and thorough scientific work—I use my words advisedly
—the Sidgwick Report on the Census of Hallucinations. Against
the conclusion of this report, that death-apparitions are 440 times
more numerous than they should be according to chance, the only
rational answer that I can see is that the data are still too few, that
the net was not cast wide enough, and that we need, to get fair
averages, far more than 17,000 answers to the Census-question. This
may, of course, be true, though it seems exceedingly unlikely, and in
our own 17,000 answers veridical cases may have heaped themselves
unduly. So neither by this report then, taken alone, is it absolutely
necessary that the sceptic be definitively convinced. But then
we have, to strengthen its flank in turn, the carefully studied cases
of " Miss X." and Mrs. Piper, two persons of the constitution
now coining to be nicknamed " psychic " (a bad term, but a handy
one), each person of a different psychic type, and each presenting
phenomena so chronic and abundant that, to explain away the super
normal knowledge displayed, the disbeliever will certainly rather call
the subjects deceivers, and their believers dupes, than resort to the
theory of chance-coincidence. The same remark holds true of the
extraordinary case of Stainton Moses, concerning which Mr. Myers
has recently given us such interesting documents. In all these cases
(as Mr. Lang has well said of the latter one) we are, it seems to me,
fairly forced to choose between a physical and a moral miracle. The
physical miracle is that knowledge may come to a person otherwise
than by the usual use of eyes and ears. The moral miracle is a kind
of deceit so perverse and successful as to find no parallel in usual
President's Address. 5
experience. But the limits of possible perversity and success in
deceit are hard to draw—so here again the sceptic may fall back on
his general non possumus, and without pretending to explain the facts
in detail, say the presumption from the ordinary course of Nature
still holds good against their supernormal interpretation. But the
oftener one is forced to reject an alleged sort of fact by the method of
falling back on the mere presumption that it can't be true because, so
far as we know Nature, Nature runs altogether the other way, the
weaker does the presumption itself get to be ; and one might in course
of time use up one's presumptive privileges in this way, even though
one started (as our anti-telepathists do) with as good a case as the great
induction of psychology that all our knowledge comes by the use of our
eyes and ears and other senses. And we must remember also that this
undermining of the strength of a presumption by reiterated report of
facts to the contrary does not logically require that the facts in question
should all be well proved. A lot of rumours in the air against a busi
ness man's credit, though they might all be vague, and no one of them
amount to proof that he is unsound, would certainly weaken the
presumption of his soundness. And all the more would they have
this effect if they formed what our lamented Gurney called a faggot
and not a chain, that is, if they were independent of each other,
and came from different quarters. Now our evidence for telepathy,
weak and strong, taken just as it comes, forms a faggot and not a
chain. No one item cites the content of another item as part of its
own proof. But, taken together, the items have a certain general
consistency ; there is a method in their madness, so to speak. So each
of them adds presumptive value to the lot ; and cumulatively, as no
candid mind can fail to see, they subtract presumptive force from the
orthodox belief that there can be nothing in any one's intellect that
has not come in through ordinary experiences of sense.
But it is a miserable thing for a question of truth to be confined
to mere presumption and counter-presumption, with no decisive
thunderbolt of fact to clear the baffling darkness. And sooth to say,
in talking so much of the merely presumption-weakening value of our
records, I have been wilfully taking the point of view of the so-called
" rigorously scientific " disbeliever, and making an ad hominem plea.
My own point of view is different. For me the thunderbolt has
fallen, and the orthodox belief has not merely had its presumption
weakened, but the truth itself of the belief is decisively overthrown.
If you will let me use the language of the professional logic-shop, a
universal proposition can be made untrue by a particular instance. If
you wish to upset the law that all crows are black, you mustn't seek
to show that no crows are ; it is enough if you prove one single crow
to be white. My own white crow is Mrs. Piper. In the trances of
6 President's Address.
this medium, I cannot resist the conviction that knowledge appears
which she has never gained by the ordinary waking use of her eyes
and ears and wits. What the source of this knowledge may be I
know not, and have not the glimmer of an explanatory suggestion to
make ; but from admitting the fact of such knowledge, I can see no
escape. So when I turn to the rest of our evidence, ghosts and all, I
cannot carry with me the irreversibly negative bias of the rigorously
scientific mind, with its presumption as to what the true order of
nature ought to be. I feel as if, though the evidence be flimsy in
spots, it may nevertheless collectively carry heavy weight. The
rigorously scientific mind may, in truth, easily overreach itself.
Science means, first of all, a certain dispassionate method. To
suppose that it means a certain set of results that one should pin
one's faith upon and hug forever, is sadly to mistake its genius, and
degrades the scientific body to the status of a sect.
But I am devoting too many words to scientific logic, and too few
to my review of our career. In the question of physical mediumship,
we have left matters as baffling as we found them, neither more nor
less. For if, on the one hand, we have brought out new documents
concerning the physical miracles of Stainton Moses, on the other hand
we have, by the Hodgson-Davey experiments, and the Paladino
episode, very largely increased the probability that testimony based on
certain sorts of observation may be quite valueless as proof. Eusapia
Paladino has been to us both a warning and an encouragement. An
encouragement to pursue unwaveringly the rigorous method in such
matters from which our Proceedings have never departed, and a
warning against drawing any prompt inference whatever from things
that happen in the dark. The conclusions to which some of us had
been hastily led on " the island," melted away when, in Cambridge,
the opportunity for longer and more cunning observation was afforded.
Some day, it is to be hoped, our Proceedings may be enabled to
publish a complete study of this woman's life. Whatever were the
upshot of such a study, few documents could be more instructive in
all ways for psychical research.
It is pleasant to turn from phenomena of the dark-sitting and rat-
hole type (with their tragi-comic suggestion that the whole order of
nature might possibly be overturned in one's own head, by the way in
which one imagined oneself, on a certain occasion, to be holding a
tricky peasant woman's feet) to the " calm air of delightful studies."
And on the credit-side of our Society's account a heavy entry must
next be made in favour of that immense and patient collecting of
miscellaneous first-hand documents that alone has enabled Mr. Myers
to develop his ideas about automatism and the subliminal self. In
President's Address. 7
Mr. Myers' papers on these subjects we see, for the first time in the
history of men's dealings with occult matters, the whole range of
them brought together, illustrated copiously with unpublished con
temporary data, and treated in a thoroughly scientific way. All
constructions in this field must be provisional, and it is as something
provisional that Mr. Myers offers us his attempt to put order into the
tangle. But, thanks to his genius, we begin to see for the first time
what a vast interlocked and graded system these phenomena, from
the rudest motor automatisms to the most startling sensory appari
tion, form. Mr. Myers' methodical treatment of them by classes and
series is the first great step towards overcoming the distaste of
orthodox science to look at them at all.
But our Proceedings contain still other veins of ore for future
working. Ghosts, for example, and disturbances in haunted houses.
These, whatever else may be said of them at present, are not without
bearing on the common scientific presumption of which I have
already perhaps said too much. Of course, one is impressed by such
narratives after the mode in which one's impressibility is fashioned.
I am not ashamed to confess that in my own case, although my
judgment remains deliberately suspended, my feeling towards the way
in which the phenomena of physical mediumship should be approached
has received from ghost and disturbance-stories a distinctly charitable
lurch. Science may keep saying : " such things are simply impossible;"
yet, so long as the stories multiply in different lands, and so few are
positively explained away, it is bad method to ignore them. They
should at least accrete for future use. As I glance back at my
reading of the past few years (reading accidental so far as these
stories go, since I have never followed up the subject) ten cases
immediately rise to my mind. The Phelps-case at Andover,
recorded by one of the family, in McClure's Magazine for this month ;
a case in China, in Nevius's Demon Possession, published last year ;
the case in John Wesley's life ; the " Amherst Mystery " in Nova
Scotia, (New York, 1888); the case in Mr. Willis's house at Fitchburg,
recorded in The Atlantic Monthly for August, 1868 (XXII., 129) ; the
Telfair-Mackie case, in Sharpe's History of Witchcraft in Scotland ;
the Morse case, in Upham's Salem Witchcraft ; the case recounted in
the introduction of W. v. Humboldt's Briefe an eine Freundin ; a
case in the Annales des Sciences Psychiques for last year (p. 86) ;
the case of the carpenter's shop at Swanland, near Hull, in our
Proceedings, Vol. VII., Part XX, pp. 383 — 394. In all of
these, if memory doesn't deceive me, material objects are said to
have been witnessed by many persons moving through the air in
broad daylight. Often the objects were multitudinous—in some cases
they were stones showered through windows and down-chimney.
8 President's Address.
More than once it was noted that they fell gently and touched the
ground without shock. Apart from the exceptionality of the reputed
occurrences, their mutual resemblances suggest a natural type,
and I confess that until these records, or others like them, are
positively explained away, I cannot feel (in spite of such vast amounts
of detected fraud) as if the case against physical mediumship itself as a
freak of nature were definitively closed. But I admit that one man's
psychological reaction cannot here be like unto another's ; and one
great duty of our Society will be to pounce upon any future case of
this " disturbance " type, catch it while red-handed and nail it fast,
whatever its quality be.
We must accustom ourselves more and more to playing the role of
a meteorological bureau, be satisfied for many a year to go without
definitive conclusions, confident that if we only keep alive and heap up
data, the natural types of them (if there are any) will surely crystal
lize out ; whilst old material that is baffling will get settled as we
proceed, through its analogy with new material that will come with
the baffling character removed.
But I must not weary your patience with the length of my dis
course. One general reflection, however, I cannot help asking you to
let me indulge in before I close. It is relative to the influence
of psychical research upon our attitude towards human history.
Although, as I said before, Science taken in its essence should stand
only for a method, and not for any special beliefs, yet, as habitually
taken by its votaries, Science has come to be identified with a
certain fixed general belief, the belief that the deeper order of
Nature is mechanical exclusively, and that non-mechanical categories
are irrational ways of conceiving and explaining even such a
thing as human life. Now this mechanical rationalism, as one
may call it, makes, if it becomes one's only way of thinking,
a violent breach with the ways of thinking that have, until our
own time, played the greatest part in human history. Religious
thinking, ethical thinking, poetical thinking, teleological, emotional,
sentimental thinking, what one might call the personal view of life
to distinguish it from the impersonal and mechanical view, and the
romantic view of life to distinguish it from the rationalistic view, have
been, and even still are, outside of well-drilled scientific circles, the
dominant forms of thought. But for mechanical rationalism, person
ality is an insubstantial illusion ; the chronic belief of mankind, that
events may happen for the sake of their personal significance, is an
abomination ; and the notions of our grandfathers about oracles and
omens, divinations and apparitions, miraculous changes of heart
and wonders worked by inspired persons, answers to prayer and
President's Address. 9
providential leadings, are a fabric absolutely baseless, a mass of sheer
untruth. Now, of course, we must all admit that the excesses to
which the romantic and personal view of Nature may lead, if wholly
unchecked by impersonal rationalism, are direful. Central African
Mumbo-jumboism is one of unchecked romanticism's fruits. One
ought accordingly to sympathize with that abhorrence of romanticism
as a sufficient world-theory ; one ought to understand that lively
intolerance of the least grain of romanticism in the views of life of
■other people, which are such characteristic.marks of those who follow
the scientific professions to-day. Our debt to Science is literally
boundless, and our gratitude for what is positive in her teachings
must be correspondingly immense. But our own Proceedings and
Journals have, it seems to me, conclusively proved one thing to the
■candid reader, and that is that the verdict of pure insanity, of gratuitous
preference for error, of superstition without an excuse, which the
scientists of our day are led by their intellectual training to pro
nounce upon the entire thought of the past, is a most shallow verdict.
The personal and romantic view of life has other roots beside wanton
■exuberance of imagination and perversity of heart. It is perenially
fed byfacts of experience, whatever the ulterior interpretation of those
facts may prove to be, and at no time in human history would it have
been less easy than now—at most times it would have been much more
■easy—for advocates with a little industry to collect in its favour an
array of contemporary documents as good as those which our publica
tions present. These documents all relate to real experiences of persons.
These experiences have three characters in common : they are capri
cious, discontinuous, and not easily controlled ; they require peculiar
persons for their production ; their significance seems to be wholly for
personal life. Those who preferentially attend to them, and still more
those who are individually subject to them, not only easily may find but
are logically bound to find in them valid arguments for their romantic
and personal conception of the world's course. Through my slight par
ticipation in the investigations of the Society for Psychical Research,
I have become acquainted with numbers of persons of this sort, for
whom the very word Science has become a name of reproach, for reasons
that I now both understand and respect. It is the intolerance of
Science for such phenomena as we are studying, her peremptory denial
either of their existence, or of their significance except as proofs of man's
absolute innate folly, that has set Science so apart from the common
sympathies of the race. I confess that it is on this, its humanizing
mission, that our Society's best claim to the gratitude of our genera
tion seems to me to depend. We have restored continuity to history.
We have shown some reasonable basis for the most superstitious aberra
tions of the foretime. We have bridged the chasm, healed the hideous
10 President's Address.
rift that Science, taken in a certain narrow way, has shot into the
human world.
I will even go one step further. When from our present advanced
standpoint we look back upon the past stages of human thought,
whether it be scientific thought or theological thought, we are amazed
that a Universe which appears to us of so vast and mysterious a com
plication should ever have seemed to any one so little and plain a.
thing. Whether it be Descartes' world or Newton's ; whether it be
that of the materialists of the last century or that of the Bridgewater
treatises of our own ; it always looks the same to us—incredibly per-
spectiveless and short. Even Lyell's, Faraday's, Mill's, and Darwin's
consciousness of their respective subjects are already beginning to put
on an infantile and innocent look. Is it then likely that the Science of
our own day will escape the common doom, that the minds of its
votaries will never look old-fashioned to the grandchildren of the
latter ? It would be folly to suppose so. Yet, if we are to judge by
the analogy of the past, when our Science once becomes old-fashioned,
it will be more for its omissions of fact, for its ignorance of whole
ranges and orders of complexity in the phenomena to be explained,
than for any fatal lack in its spirit and principles. The spirit and prin
ciples of Science are mere affairs of method ; there is nothing in them
that need hinder Science from dealing successfully with a world in
which personal forces are the starting-point of new effects. The only form
of thing that we directly encounter, the only experience that we
concretely have, is our own personal life. The only complete category
of our thinking, our professors of philosophy tell us, is the category
of personality, every other category being one of the abstract elements
of that. And this systematic denial on Science's part of personality as
a condition of events, this rigorous belief that in its own essential
and innermost nature our world is a strictly impersonal world, may,
conceivably, as the whirligig of time goes round, prove to be the
very defect that our descendants will be most surprised at in our
own boasted Science, the omission that, to their eyes, will most
tend to make it look perspectiveless and short.
But these things lie upon the knees of the gods. I must leave
them there, and close now this discourse, which I regret that I could
not make more short. If it has made you feel that (however it turn
out with modern Science) our own Society, at any rate, is not " per
spectiveless," it will have amply served its purpose ; and the next
President's address may have more definite conquests to record.
Sub-conscious Reasoning. 11
II.
SUB-CONSCIOUS REASONING.
By Wm. Romaine Newbold.
The three following cases may, perhaps, be as well reported
under the above somewhat ambiguous caption as under any other.
In all, the results obtruded upon the upper consciousness seem to
pre-suppose the existence of conscious states, which, in two cases,
would appear never to have existed in the upper consciousness at all,
and in the third, even if they did exist, existed only in dream and
were wholly forgotten. Furthermore, the results were in all three
cases of such a character that they could have been attained by
processes of associative reasoning analogous to those of the upper
consciousness, and we are therefore not required to ascribe to the
supposititious " subconscious " states any supernormal powers.
The first was given me by my friend and colleague, William A.
Lamberton, Professor of Greek in the University of Pennsylvania,
and I transcribe his own written statement.
" I went to the Lehigh University in the fall of 1869 as instructor
in Latin and Greek. My spare time, however, partly as the result of
old leanings of my undergraduate days, partly in consequence of a
somewhat intimate companionship that sprang up between me and the
instructor in mathematics, after a few months came to be given almost
entirely to mathematics. I then made acquaintance for the first time
with the pleasures of descriptive geometry ; I may say here that this
branch of mathematics has a more direct tendency towards quickening
the power of mentally picturing bodies and lines in space than any
other part of mathematics that can be called elementary. I mention
this here because it may have some bearing upon the experience now
to be related.
" Outside of this study of descriptive geometry, my mathematical
work was entirely algebraic and analytic. I soon began to try my
hand at certain problems. Somewhere in the spring, I think it was,
of 1870, I attacked this problem :—Given an ellipse, to find the locus
of the foot of the perpendicular let fall from either focus upon a
tangent to this ellipse at any point. I endeavoured to solve this
analytically, starting from the well-known equations of the tangent to
an ellipse, and of a perpendicular to a given line from a given point.
12 Wm. Romaine Newbold.
No thought of attempting a geometrical solution ever entered my
head. After battling with these equations for a considerable time—it
was over a week and may have been two weeks—I came to the natural
conclusion that I was bogged, and that all my efforts, if continued,
would only sink me deeper in the bog ; the proper thing to do was to
call a halt, dismissing the problem as far as possible from my thoughts,
and after some time, when my mind had got completely free from it, to
return to it afresh, when, I had no doubt, a few minutes would put me
in possession of the solution. This I did absolutely and with success.
After about a week, I woke one morning and found myself in
possession of the desired solution under circumstances to me strange
and interesting, so much so that the impression of them has never died
away, or even, so far as I can say, become dim or altered in any way.
First :—the solution was entirely geometrical, whereas I had been
labouring for it analytically without ever drawing or attempting to
draw a single figure. Second :—it presented itself by means of a figure
objectively pictured at a considerable distance from me on the opposite
wall. Now although I have been able, and have been so for years, to
picture to myself a geometrical figure—even moderately complicated—
and use it for solution of a geometrical problem without external lines
being drawn, such figures have sensationally for me a distinct location
in myself, viz., in the eye itself ; they are never, so far as I know,
externally presented. This, however, was distinctly external. The
room that I occupied had once been a recitation room. It was a long
room, running east and west, with two windows on the south side, one
in the south-east corner. The north wall had once been partially
occupied by a long blackboard, set in the wall and surrounded by a
moulding. The blackboard surface was simply a blackened—possibly
slated—portion of the wall itself. This had been painted over, but the
black showed through the white paint and the moulding was still there;
so that, apart from the tradition, with which I was familiar, the fact of
a blackboard having been there was perfectly clear and evident. My
bed was so placed between the windows on the south and the north
wall, that on opening my eyes in the morning the first thing I would
be likely to see was the blackboard surface. On opening my eyes on
the morning in question, I saw projected upon this blackboard surface
a complete figure, containing not only the lines given by the problem,
but also a number of auxiliary lines, and just such lines as without
further thought solved the problem at once. Both foci were joined
with the point of contact of the tangent ; the perpendicular was
prolonged beyond its point of intersection with the tangent till it
met the line from the other focus through the point of contact with
the ellipse ; a line was drawn from the centre of the ellipse to the
foot of the perpendicular, and, lastly, the locus, a circle on the major
Sub-conscious Reasoning. 13
axis of the ellipse as diameter, was drawn. I sprang from bed and
drew the figure on paper ; needless to say, perhaps, that the geome
trical solution being thus given, only a few minutes were needed to
get the analytical one.
W. A. Lamberton."
Professor Lamberton has showed me his note-book containing the
statement of the problem and the analytical solution. He is unable
to find the contemporary drawing above mentioned, and no con
temporary account is forthcoming. It is possible that some of the
details of the phenomenon have become obscured in the lapse of
twenty-five years, but the essential points seem to me to be indubit
able,—that Professor Lamberton saw that morning an externalised
hallucinatory figure, and that, whatever its precise character, it
suggested to him the solution which he had sought in vain by the
analytical method. There is no clue to the time at which the reason
ing processes necessary to attain the result were carried out, but from
general considerations it seems to me most probable that they formed
part of some forgotten dream and were not going on " sub
consciously " during waking life. Professor Lamberton is of Scotch-
Irish descent, is a man of the most robust physical and mental health,
and is of a temperament precisely the opposite of that in which
traces of true " sub-conscious " processes are usually found. The
function of the disused blackboard, as apparently providing a point
de repere for the hallucination, is of interest and will suggest many
analogies. This is Professor Lamberton's only hallucinatory experience.
He informs me further that his colour memory is bad, although his
memory for line and form is excellent. He visualises little, and it
was not until some time after the above experience that he learned that
it was within the power of some persons voluntarily to externalise
their visual memories.
For the other two cases I am indebted to another friend and
colleague, Dr. Herman V. Hilprecht, Professor of Assyrian in the
University of Pennsylvania. Both occurred in his own experience,
and I write the account of the first from notes made by me upon his
narrative.
During the winter, 1882—1883, he was working with Professor
Friedrich Delitzsch, and was preparing to publish, as his dissertation,
a text, transliteration and translation of a stone of Nebuchadnezzar 1.
with notes. He accepted at that time the explanation given by
Professor Delitzsch of the name Nebuchadnezzar—" Nahu-kud&rru-
usur," "Nebo protect my mason's pad, or mortar board," i.e., "my work
as a builder." One night, after working late, he went to bed about
two o'clock in the morning. After a somewhat restless sleep, he awoke
14 Wm. Romaine Newbold.
with his mind full of the thought that the name should be translated
" Nebo protect my boundary." He had a dim consciousness of having
been working at his table in a dream, but could never recall the details
of the process by which he arrived at this conclusion. Reflecting upon
it when awake, however, he at once saw that kudurru, " boundary ",
could be derived from the verb kaddru, to enclose. Shortly afterwards
he published this translation in his dissertation, and it has since been
universally adopted.
I quote this experience, in itself of a familiar type, on account of
its interest when viewed in connection with the more curious dream
next to be related. I was told of the latter shortly after it happened,
and here translate an account written in German by Professor
Hilprecht, August 8th, 1893, before the more complete confirmation
was received.
"One Saturday evening about the middle of March, 1893, I had
been wearying myself, as I had done so often in the weeks preceding,
in the vain attempt to decipher two small fragments of agate which
were supposed to belong to the finger rings of some Babylonian. The
labour was much increased by the fact that the fragments presented
remnants only of characters and lines, that dozens of similar small
fragments had been found in the ruins of the temple of Bel at Nippur
with which nothing could be done, that in this case furthermore I had
never had the originals before me, but only a hasty sketch made by one
of the members of the expedition sent by the University of Pennsyl
vania to Babylonia. I could not say more than that the fragments,
taking into consideration the place in which they were found and the
peculiar characteristics of the cuneiform characters preserved upon
them, sprang from the Cassite period of Babylonian history (ca. 1700-
1140 B.C.) ; moreover, as the first character of the third line of the first
fragment seemed to be KTJ, I ascribed this fragment, with an
interrogation point, to King Kurigalzu, while I placed the other
fragment, as unclassifiable, with other Cassite fragments upon a page
of my book where I published the unclassifiable fragments. The
proofs already lay before me, but I was far from satisfied. The whole
problem passed yet again through my mind that March evening before
I placed my mark of approval under the last correction in the book.
Even then I had come to no conclusion. About midnight, weary and
exhausted, I went to bed and was soon in deep sleep. Then I dreamed
the following remarkable dream. A tall, thin priest of the old pre-
christian Nippur, about forty years of age and clad in a simple
abba, led me to the treasure chamber of the temple, on its south-east
side. He went with me into a small, low-ceiled room without windows,
in which there was a large wooden chest, while scraps of agate and lapis
lazuli lay scattered on the floor. Here he addressed me as follows :—
Sub-conscious Reasoning. 15
* The two fragments which you have published separately upon pages
22 and 26, belong together, are not finger rings, and their history
is as follows. King Kurigalzu (ca. 1300 B.C.) once sent to the temple
of Bel, among other articles of agate and lapis lazuli, an inscribed
votive cylinder of agate. Then we priests suddenly received the
command to make for the statue of the god Ninib a pair of earrings of
agate. We were in great dismay, since there was no agate as raw
material at hand. In order to execute the command there was nothing
for us to do but cut the votive cylinder into three parts, thus making
three rings, each of which contained a portion of the original inscrip
tion. The first two rings served as earrings for the statue of the god ;
the two fragments which have given you so much trouble are portions
of them. If you will put the two together you will have confirmation
of my words. But the third ring you have not yet found in the course
of your excavations and you never will find it.' With this, the priest
disappeared. I awoke at once and immediately told my wife the dream
that I might not forget it. Next morning—Sunday—I examined the
fragments once more in the light of these disclosures, and to my
astonishment found all the details of the dream precisely verified in so
far as the means of verification were in my hands. The original
inscription on the votive cylinder read :—' To the god Ninib, son of
Bel, his lord, has Kurigalzu, pontifex of Bel, presented this.'
" The problem was thus at last solved. I stated in the preface that
I had unfortunately discovered too late that the two fragments
belonged together, made the corresponding changes in the ' Table of
Contents,' pp. 50 and 52, and, it being not possible to transpose the
fragments, as the plates were already made, I put in each plate a brief
reference to the other. (Cf. Hilprecht, ' The Babylonian Expedition
of the University of Pennsylvania,' Series A, Cuneiform Texts, Vol.
I., Part 1, ' Old Babylonian Inscriptions, chiefly from Nippur.')
" H. V. Hilprecht."
Upon the priest's statement that the fragments were those of a
votive cylinder, Professor Hilprecht makes the following comment :—
" There are not many of these votive cylinders. I had seen, all
told, up to that evening, not more than two. They very much
resemble the so-called seal cylinders, but usually have no pictorial
representations upon them, and the inscription is not reversed, not
being intended for use in sealing, but is written as it is read."
The following transliteration of the inscription, in the Sumerian
language, will serve to give those of us who are unlearned in cunei
form languages an idea of the material which suggested the dream.
The straight vertical lines represent the cuts by which the stone-cutter
divided the original cylinder into three sections. The bracketted
16 Wm. Romaine Neivbold.
words are entirely lost, and have been supplied by analogy from tbe
many similar inscriptions.
Line 1. Dingir N inib du (mu) To the god Ninib, child
„ 2. dingir En- (lil ) of the god Bel
„ 3. luga 1 - a - ni (ir) his lord
„ 4. Ku-r (i- galzu) Kurigalzu
„ 5. pa- (tesi dingir Enlil) pontifex of the god Bel
„ 6. (in- na- ba) has presented it.
I translate also the following statement which Mrs. Hilprecht kindly
made at my request.
" I was wakened from sleep by a sigh, immediately thereafter heard
a spring from the bed, and at the same moment saw Professor
Hilprecht hurrying into his study. Thence came the cry ' It is so, it
is so.' Grasping the situation, I followed him and satisfied myself in
the midnight hour as to the outcome of his most interesting dream.1
"J. C. Hilprecht."
At the time Professor Hilprecht told me of this curious dream,
which was a few weeks after its occurrence, there remained a serious
difficulty which he was not able to explain. According to the memo
randa in our possession, the fragments were of different colours, and
therefore could have scarcely belonged to the same object. The original
fragments were in Constantinople, and it was with no little interest
that I awaited Professor Hilprecht's return from the trip which be
made thither in the summer of 1893. I translate again his own
account of what he then ascertained.
" In August, 1893, I was sent by the Committee on the Babylonian
Expedition to Constantinople, to catalogue and study the objects
got from Nippur and preserved there in the Imperial Museum. It
was to me a matter of the greatest interest to see for myself the
objects which, according to my dream, belonged together, in order to
satisfy myself that they had both originally been parts of the same
votive cylinder. Halil Bey, the director of the museum, to-
whom I told my dream, and of whom I asked permission to-
see the objects, was so interested in the matter, that he at
1 An apparent discrepancy between Professor Hilprecht's account and that of
Mrs. Hilprecht calls for explanation. Professor Hilprecht states that he verified his
dream on Sunday morning at the University ; Mrs. Hilprecht that he verified it
immediately upon awaking, in his library. Both statements are correct. He had a.
working copy in his library which he examined at once, but hurried to the University
next morning to verify it by comparison with the authorised copy made from the
originals.—W.R.N.
Sub-conscious Reasoning. 17
once opened all the cases of the Babylonian section, and requested
me to search. Father Scheil, an Assyriologist from Paris, who
had examined and arranged the articles excavated by us before
me, had not recognised the fact that these fragments belonged
together, and consequently I found one fragment in one case, and the
other in a case far away from it. As soon as I found the fragments
and put them together, the truth of the dream was demonstrated ad
oculos—they had, in fact, once belonged to one and the same votive
cylinder. As it had been originally of finely veined agate, the stone
cutter's saw had accidentally divided the object in such a way that
the whitish vein of the stone appeared only upon the one fragment
and the larger grey surface upon the other. Thus I was able to
explain Dr. Peters' discordant descriptions of the two fragments.—
November 10th, 1895."
Professor Hilprecht is unable to say what language the old priest
used in addressing him. He is quite certain that it was not Assyrian,
and thinks it was either English or German.
There are two especial points of interest in this case, the character
of the information conveyed, and the dramatic form in which it was
put. The apparently novel points of information given were :—
1. That the fragments belonged together.
2. That they were fragments of a votive cylinder.
3. That the cylinder was presented by King Kurigalzu.
4. That it was dedicated to Ninib.
5. That it had been made into a pair of earrings.
6. That the " treasure chamber " was located upon the south-east
side of the temple.
A careful analysis reveals the fact that not one of these items was
beyond the reach of the processes of associative reasoning which Pro
fessor Hilprecht daily employs. Among the possible associative conse
quents of the writing upon the one fragment, some of the associative
consequents of the writing on the other were sub-consciously involved ;
the attraction of these identical elements brings the separate pieces into
mental juxtaposition, precisely as the pieces of a " dissected map " find
one another in thought. In waking life the dissimilarity of colour
inhibited any tendency on the part of the associative processes to bring
them together, but in sleep this difference of colour seems to have been
forgotten—there being no mention made of it—and the assimilation
took place. The second point is more curious, but is not inexplicable.
For as soon as the fragments were brought into juxtaposition mentally,
enough of the inscription became legible to suggest the original
character of the object. This is true also of the third and fourth points.
The source of the fifth is not so clear. Upon examining the originals,
c
18 Wm. Rontaine Newbold.
Professor Hilprecht felt convinced from the size of the hole still to
be seen through the fragments that they could not have been used as
finger-rings, and that they had been used as earrings, but the written
description which he had before him at the time of his dream did not
bring these points to view. Still, such earrings are by no means
uncommon objects. Such a supposition might well have occurred to
Professor Hilprecht in his waking state and, in view of the lack of
positive confirmation, it would be rash to ascribe it to any supernormal
power. The last point is most interesting. When he told me this
story, Professor Hilprecht remembered that he had heard from Dr.
John P. Peters, before he had the dream, of the discovery of a room
in which were remnants of a wooden box, while the floor was strewn
with fragments of agate and lapis lazuli. The walls, of course, and
ceiling have long since perished. The location, however, of the room
he did not know, and suggested I should write to Dr. Peters and find
out whether it was correctly given in his dream, and whether Dr.
Peters had told him of it. Dr. Peters replied that the location given
was correct, but, he adds, he told Professor Hilprecht all these facts as
long ago as 1891, and thinks he provided him with a drawing of the
room's relation to the temple. Of this Professor Hilprecht has no
recollection. He thinks it probable that Dr. Peters told him orally of
the location of the room, but feels sure that if any such plan was given
him it would now be found among his papers. This is a point of no
importance, however. "We certainly cannot regard the location as
ascertained by supernormal means.
The dramatic form of the dream is of greater interest ; yet, strange
as it is, it is not without numerous analogues in the literature of
dreams. M. Maury gives two cases from his own experience which
are almost exactly parallel. " Recently the name Mussidan came
suddenly to mind ; I knew at the time that it was the name of a town
in France, but where it was I did not know, or, better, I had forgotten.
Some while afterwards I saw in a dream a certain individual
who told me he came from Mussidan ; I asked him where that town
was. He replied that it was a place of importance in a canton of the
department of the Dordogne. At the end of the dream I awoke ; it
was morning ; I remembered the dream perfectly, but was in doubt as
to the accuracy of what my individual had told me. The name
Mussidan still presented itself to mind under the conditions of the
preceding days, that is to say, I did not know where the town so termed
was situated. I made haste to consult a geographical dictionary and,
to my great surprise, discovered that the interlocutor of my dream
knew more geography than I ; in other words, that I had recalled in
dream a fact which I had forgotten in the waking state, and that I had
put into the mouth of another what was but a recollection of my own.
Sub-conscious Reasoning. 19
Some years ago, while studying English and especially endeavouring to
learn the meanings of verbs followed by prepositions, I had the
following dream. I was talking English, and, desiring to tell a person
that I had paid him a call the preceding day, I made use of this
expression, ' I called for you yesterday.' ' That's badly put,' he
replied ; ' you should say, I called on you yesterday.' Next morning,
on waking, the recollection of this incident of my dream was very
distinct. I took a grammar lying on a table near my bed and verified
it ; the imaginary individual was right." (Le Sommeil et les Reves,
142-3).
In these cases it is possible that the apparently foreign items of
information were really accidental elements, drawn into the course of
a dream which had been originated in some other way. But the case
narrated by Professor Hilprecht is somewhat different. Here we are
forced, I think, to assume that the logical processes had been approxi
mately completed before the dramatic form was assumed. In the
dramatic form itself there is nothing that presents any particular diffi
culty. All the associative material out of which it was constructed was
more or less in mind, and such a dream might easily have been initiated
by many slight causes. But if we assume that the conclusion was
reached before the old priest, with so much ceremony, inducted the
dreamer into a secret which he already knew, we fall into further
trouble. It is upon such phenomena as these that some would base
the conception of a sub-conscious self, who is at all times ready and
anxious to make use of his supernormal powers to play practical jokes
of a peculiarly mystifying, if usually kindly character, upon the more
stupid upper self. According to this doctrine, Professor Hilprecht's
sub-conscious self, having solved the problem by methods more or less
unknown to us, deliberately resolved to present the result to Professor
Hilprecht in the form of an instructive drama, with thoughts to serve
as its puppets.
In this case, at least, I can see no reason for resort to such a
conception. We have evidence amply sufficient to show that, at least
in dreams which take their rise from sensory suggestions, the apparent
flow of the dream-time may be precisely the opposite of that of real
time. In other words, the dream may be dramatised backwards, so
to speak, from its apparent conclusion to its apparent initiation. Thus
when M. Maury, while tickled with a feather, dreamed that he was
being tortured by having the skin of his face torn off by a mask of
hot pitch, it is probable that some notion of the mask and its applica-
cation preceded the sensation of pain ; although, in fact, the touch
sensation, of which the latter was the exaggerated representation, came
first in real time. A clearer case is that related upon page 161 (op.
cit.) A long dream of the Reign of Terror concluded with his arrest, trial,
c 2
20 Wm. Romaine Newbold.
conviction ; he clearly remembered all the details of his transportation
in a tumbril to the place of execution, how he was bound to the fatal
plank, how the knife fell,—and with the blow he awoke to find that the
curtain-pole of his bed had fallen and struck him a severe blow on the
back of the neck. His mother, who was in the room, said that he
awoke the instant it fell. Here we must suppose that the dream time
was purely illusory and occupied only a fragment of a second of real
time. A similar case was narrated by a friend of mine. She had
been very ill with typhoid fever but was convalescent ; she had fallen
into a light doze in her chair and dreamed that she was being pursued
from room to room by a savage dog. She would enter a room, close
the door, hold it against him, he would make his appearance by another
door and she would escape through the one she was holding and take
flight to another room. This lasted, she thought, for a half-hour or so.
She had been driven to the third storey and had taken refuge in a
small room with but one door. That door she held against the dog's
pressure until her feeble strength gave way, the brute sprang upon her
with a howl,—and she awoke with a start to find that her sister had at
that moment placed her hand upon her arm and had said " Boo." The
character of this dream precludes, I think, the supposition that the
" Boo " was merely accidentally woven into the texture of a dream
already in course of progress ; it must have been the generating
suggestion from which the whole dream took rise.
Professor Hilprecht's dream may be interpreted in the same way.
Undoubtedly the old priest's statements were attained by normal
processes of associative reasoning which Professor Hilprecht has now
forgotten, and upon them, as upon a logical core, the dream imagery
has been superimposed, thus producing a time-hallucination.
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 21
III.
SUGGESTION WITHOUT HYPNOTISM,
An Account of Experiments in Preventing or Suppressing Pain.1
By C. M. Barrows.
I have been asked to present a report of experiments made by
myself in the use of suggestion without hypnotism. The work was
begun about seven years ago, and in prosecuting it I have treated
several hundred persons, afflicted with various maladies, including
insomnia, rheumatism, neuralgia, intermittent headache, sore joints,
hysteria, chorea, morbid phenomena left as the result of disease,
functional disorders of the nervous system, dipsomania, stammering,
stage-fright, excessive emotion, etc. ;—affording in one sense an
attractive variety.
Out of this list, I have chosen for mention in this paper cases in
which pain in some form was either prevented or suppressed under
conditions of nerve and tissue that would ordinarily make it
inevitable. Such cases are better suited to the present purpose than
the others, because in weighing the evidence they offer, there is
comparatively little danger of errors due to either of the two causes
which Professor Richet tells us it suffices to eliminate. Intentional
fraud can scarcely be supposed to enter into these experiments, and
even the liability to " unconscious " or " automatic " fraud is slight.
Chance, too, " which often brings about amazing coincidences," can by
no stretch of its big cloak be made to cover the whole group.
Take toothache, for example, the kind of pain with which I first
attempted to deal. If I had tried only a few cases, or if only now
and then the pain had disappeared under the treatment, common sense
would insist that the ache ceased by chance. But since the record
shows a large number of such treatments, with no failures among
them, it seems reasonable to conclude that the suggestion stopped the
pain. And yet, on the strength of these results alone, I would not
dare to affirm that what occurred in even a single case was an instance
of cause and effect. Fortunately I am able to cite more decisive tests
of the power of the agency employed.
1 Read at the General Meeting of the Society held in the Westminster Town
Hall, January 31st, 1896 ; also at the meetings of the American Branch held in
Boston and New York, December, 1895.
22 C. M. Barrows.
A lady about to have several very sensitive teeth filled, asked if
suggestion would exempt her from the torture in store for her. She
explained that in all her experience of dental operations, the process
had been extremely painful, and the shock brought on nervous
prostration. Of course, I could promise nothing as to the result, but
invited her to try it. Her dentist had his office in Boston, and on the
day of her first appointment with him, she appeared at my house in
Brookline at nine o'clock in the morning. I explained the nature and
manner of the treatment as well as I could, and made the suggestion
that she should feel no pain while in the dentist's chair that day, and
no nervous prostration should ensue.
The lady left me, feeling, as I judged, very little confidence in
what I had done,—indeed, she remarked that she could not see that
I had done anything,—and at eleven o'clock the operator began work
on her most sensitive tooth. Finding, to his surprise as well as her
own, that she did not wince under the rough touch of his instruments,
he worked steadily and fast for two hours, before she was released from
the chair. The next day, instead of being miserable in bed, this lady
called to report to me what seemed to her a wonderful deliverance
from pain. Referring to the molar on which the dentist had spent so
much time, she said, " Dr. wanted to fill it a year ago, but it
hurt so I could not bear to let him touch it ; but yesterday he did
not hurt me a particle, although he worked fast and did not favour
me. I felt every movement and realised all he was doing, but there
was no pain at all, and I have no prostration."
This patient had four subsequent appointments to keep with her
dentist ; and as the days arrived for the second, third, and fourth, I
repeated the suggestion made in the first instance, and she passed the
ordeal with a like immunity from suffering and exhaustion. Perhaps
the continued successes made me over-confident ; for when she called
to take the fifth and last treatment, she was late, I was pressed for
time, and so omitted the formal suggestion, trusting that I should be
able to control her sensations when there should be need of it. But
in this I reckoned without my host, and a wretched failure was the
consequence. The poor victim endured severe torture, and was kept in
bed for two days by the prostration. This mistake is not to be
accounted an unmixed evil, however, since no one would deny that it
lent an added value to the experiment.
It should be understood, of course, that in every dental case herein
described, my treatment began and ended with a single suggestion. I
did not accompany the patient to the office, or continue the treatment
after the patient had departed. Observe also that each suggestion
made was a post-suggestion ; that is to say, it was not intended to take
immediate effect, but to produce a specific result at a designated later
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 23
hour. like post-hypnotic suggestion, it seemed to become available at
the particular time intended when it was made, and to have no
influence before the appointed hour or after it had expired. A boy
who was treated to have a tooth extracted in the forenoon, finding that
it had ceased to ache, postponed the operation until afternoon, and then
found that the suggestion did him no good. Another case illustrating
the same point is that of a young lady pianist of much talent, who
during her first public performances was so overcome by stage-fright
that she failed to do herself justice. One evening, when she was to
play at a public entertainment, I made the suggestion that she should
be perfectly at her ease, and the experiment succeeded, to her great
delight. Subsequently I rendered her a like service ; but owing to a
change in the programme, she did not take her part as expected, but
did play at a repetition of the performance given a day later ; but the
virtue of my suggestion was gone. It is a pleasure to add that a few
more treatments permanently cured this young lady of her annoying
attacks of fright.
To be able to rob the dentist's chair of any part of its terrors is
indeed a gratifying achievement, but it is not after all the crucial test.
The crowning triumph would be to enable a person by means of
suggestion alone to have firm teeth extracted without pain. I am not
prepared to say to what extent this can be done, for I have tried the
experiment only seven times, and in one instance it was a failure. Four
of the seven trials were made on children between the ages of eight and
fifteen years, each of whom had a firm molar removed. The next trial
I can refer to with confidence, because it was my own teeth that were
extracted. I parted with two molars, one of which was a firm one
with hooked roots, and the dentist used two different instruments
before he succeeded in removing the whole. This was a case of
auto-suggestion, and the operation, though prolonged, was absolutely
painless. Two women took my treatment on the same day for a like
purpose. One of them had four firm teeth and three loose ones taken
out, and found that my suggestion did not help her at all ; the other
lady parted with a firm molar and pronounced the treatment a
success.
A large number of test cases would be necessary to establish the
practical usefulness of this form of inhibition ; but as instances of
local analgesia induced without hypnotism, the six successful experi
ments are of peculiar interest, because the operation of extracting a
firm tooth is severe while it lasts, and the snapping of live nerves is
painful. It would not be easy to choose six experiments of the same
kind, in which the conditions of a decisive test would be more fully
met : the patients were in a normal condition at the time of treatment ;
each must have suffered during the operation, unless the pain had been
24 G. M. Barrows.
prevented in some way ; it was averted beyond a doubt ; and this
result could not reasonably be attributed to anything else than the
psychical suggestion previously given.
In all cases of suggestion mentioned in this paper the mode of
administration was essentially the same. When dealing with persons to
whom it is new, I usually explain that the purpose of it is to render
the nerves involved incapable for the time being of producing the
sensation of pain. There is no hypnotism about this form of suggestion,
no mesmerism, no animal-magnetism, no mind-cure. The effect does
not interfere in any way with the freedom of the patient ; for I work
no charm and cast no spell upon him, exert no control over his will,
make no change in his thinking. My wish is to accomplish one
definite result and nothing else, namely, to take away the feeling of pain
from the consciousness which might otherwise suffer. If the patient is
sceptical, I tell him that his doubt or faith will not alter the result,
since it is not a matter of opinion, but of sensation. Confidence in the
treatment is not necessary, nor will any attempt to resist vitiate the
effect.
Having thus assured the patient and put him at his ease, I ask him
to seat himself in a comfortable position, be quiet a few minutes, and
think of anything he pleases, while I suggest to his nerves how to
behave. Sometimes I show a patient what nerves are producing the
sensation of pain and locate the centres by placing my hand on his
head. Some action of this sort is often useful with children, as a
tangible evidence to them that something is being done.
The popular impression (and this is not untrue) is that hypnotic
suggestion is administered orally, in a language the patient under-
'stands. When the patient is asleep and has reached a favourable
stage of the trance, Dr. Liebeault or Dr. Bernheim says in a distinct
tone of voice: "You will feel no pain when you awake"; or, "The
lameness you complain of will be gone," or whatever utterance the case
calls for. It is not claimed, I suppose, that the suggestions made in
this way differ in kind from those a mother might make to her child
who is hurt, when she says : " You will feel better in a moment ' ; or,
" Mother will kiss it and make it well." In other words, the value of
hypnotic suggestions made for therapeutic purposes does not consist in
anything peculiar about them, but their effectiveness is due to the
heightened susceptibility of the patient during the trance. It is
doubtful if this sort of treatment would have much effect upon disease
and pain if the patients receiving it were not in a trance ; and because
my patients are not so affected, as far as I can judge, at the time of
treatment, I suspect that my suggestion is a different thing from that
employed by the hypnotisers ; not so much in its results on patients,
but as a psychical act of the operator.
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 25
Mine is a silent suggestion. I use neither voice nor other means
to convey its import to the patient through sensory adits. I find it
possible to affect with these unvoiced suggestions one who does not
know my language, infants who have learned no language, and brute
creatures. This would not be the case if communication depended on
speech. More than this : I am not conscious of forming any statement
of the message, even in thought, when I make the suggestion. I
certainly am not then thinking about my patient, or at him. Using the
term " mind " in the popular sense, it does not seem that the sugges
tions which I make are addressed to it at all.
My experience in sending telepathic messages to distant percipients
casts some light upon this point. Whenever, acting as agent, I con
centrated my thought on a formal statement of the message, the
percipient failed to receive it ; but when I made no thought effort,—
no conscious effort of any kind,—the message reached its destination.
Mark, this is not saying that the agent does not need to think of his
message beforehand and decide upon its content ; in all except purely
spontaneous communications this preliminary step must be necessary.
In some recent experiments made with a reputed "mind-reader," I found
that success did not depend on my own thought being kept steadily
fixed on the thing he was to do. Indeed, I have much reason to
believe that he did not read my thoughts at all. The conclusion seems
well nigh irresistible that therapeutic suggestion, as I use it, is not
sensory but telepathic, that the communication does not require an
act of thinking or willing to send it forth.
About a year ago an Irish girl of seventeen came to me to be
treated for neuralgia in the left temple. She looked like an over
worked, under-fed person, grown quite nervous from pain and loss of
sleep. The pain and soreness were gone after the first treatment ; but
there was some return of the trouble next day, and I repeated the
suggestion on that and the following day, producing permanent relief.
Last September I treated a Welshman, about forty years of
age, who had been suffering from neuralgia for a long while, which
affected the entire left side of his head and face. His ear had not
been free from pain for two years, and he had several attacks daily
of what he described as sharp stabs of pain. Within three weeks
of the time I first saw the man, he had been complaining of his left
eye, which he said pained him constantly. The eye was much inflamed,
but it seemed to be only the orbit which was attacked, and after three
treatments both eye and orbit were cured. After that, I was unable
to see the man again until two weeks later, when I found the eye
all right, but the pain in and about the ear had not abated. I then
gave him three treatments, and since that time he has had no neuralgic
symptoms at all.
26 G. M. Barrows.
About six years ago I treated a school teacher for neuralgia, and I
think this was my first experiment with this disease. She had borne
the pain for nearly two weeks, and her nerves were completely un
strung. I remember that I made the suggestion in a hesitating way,
scarcely expecting the aching nerves to obey it ; but the pain stopped
in a few minutes, and the treatment was followed by a night of refresh
ing sleep. This respite was only temporary, and next morning the
lady was as bad as ever. She sent for me about the middle of the
forenoon, and I gave her a second treatment, after which she suffered
no more for twelve hours. Again, at ten o'clock in the evening, I was
summoned to repeat the suggestion ; and from that time on pain
ceased and the patient recovered.
I am often asked whether the psychical treatment which relieves
pain also cures the disease or hurt which occasions the pain. Evidently
it does not do so in all cases, although in every instance of rheumatism
or neuralgia which I have treated, the suppression of the pain insured
the disappearance of the other symptoms. As exceptions to this rule,
it may be mentioned that I once suppressed the pain of a big carbuncle
on the back of a man's neck for three successive nights, so that he got
several hours of sleep ; but the ache began again each morning,—pro
bably awoke him,—the suppurative process continued, and at the
proper time the surgeon applied his knife. At another time I treated a
man who suffered for months with a kidney trouble, which finally proved
fatal. During the progress of the disease he was subject to spasmodic
attacks with excruciating pain, and it was in one of these that I saw
him, and was able to relieve his distress. In several instances of a like
nature, I have suppressed pain for the time being, thus affording the
patient a brief respite from suffering.
Another interesting fact in this connection is that pain may be
permanently inhibited in one part of the body, and at the same time
persist in another part. In October, 1894, I treated a man who had
sprained his left ankle very badly about a year and a half before.
Although the foot was no longer lame, and it did not hurt him to use
it, there remained a constant pain just under the outer malleolus,
which when the foot became tired at night was very severe. At the
time this man came to me for help, he had been enduring this steady
pain for more than twelve months, and his nervous system—naturally
a strong one—was breaking down under the prolonged strain. This
case required a series of treatments, the record of which in my note
book is as follows : Treatment began October 9th, and repeated on
the 10th and 11th, with no apparent effect. On the 13th, pain ceased
during treatment, but returned after two hours. On the 16th, pain
ceased during treatment, but returned in one hour. On the 18th, the
pain shifted during treatment to the nerve in front of the tendon of
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 27
Achilles, and returned to the original spot about two hours later.
On the 19th, no treatment was given, but the man strained the foot
badly in jumping out of a carriage. This brought on a severe pain
which lasted until late in the evening, when it stopped, and he felt a
like pain under the outer malleolus of his right foot, which did not
subside until near midnight. The next treatment was given on the
20th, when the pain ceased and did not return ; and now, for a con
tinuous period of more than a year, he has been wholly free from
it. All the while he was under treatment, this man was suffering
with a painful lameness of the right arm, of which he made no men
tion at the time. Six months after the ankle was cured, I tried to
help the arm by suggestion, but could produce no permanent effect
upon it. The man has followed for more than thirty years a mechani
cal business which requires him to hold the right arm all day long
in a cramped, unnatural position, in order to do his work, and to this
fact the morbid condition is probably due.
About the middle of February, 1895, a poor working-woman showed
me the " thimble " finger of her right hand, the second joint of which
was pinched between two swinging doors, in 1886, and the ligaments
broken down. It received no surgical attention at the time of the
accident, and for nine years it had been painful most of the time. I
gave the case one suggestion and a permanent cure resulted ; but at
the same time this woman had a painful lameness of the neck, a
consequence of the grippe, which it required three subsequent treat
ments to remove.
In the spring of 1894, a young married lady asked to be treated for
an intercostal pain which was peculiarly troublesome, and for which she
said the doctors had no name or remedy. Three years before she
applied to me, she was driving a pair of spirited horses which her
husband had just given her, when they took fright and ran. She
pulled on the reins with all her might, and while so doing felt something
give way in her right side, between the six and seventh ribs, as nearly
as she could locate the hurt. After a week or two the soreness passed
off; but she could not wear a close-fitting garment without bringing on
a hard pain, which grew more intense as long as the pressure continued.
She had consulted the best surgeons to be found in this country and in
Europe without getting any help, and there seemed to be no escape
from the annoying pain as long as she dressed in a way to be present
able in society. I gave the case six treatments by suggestion, and the
pain entirely disappeared.
But I must not forget how soon descriptions of this kind become
tiresome to the listener. Suffer me, then, to refer briefly to one other
class of cases, and have done with them. Rheumatic pains afford an
almost inexhaustible supply of cases for experiment, and I have had
28 C. M. Barrows.
my share of them. Persons suffering in this way usually try the various
medicinal remedies, and if these afford no relief, and they get desperate
enough to do anything, they will submit to suggestion. My experience
with rheumatism has been that, with few exceptions, from one to four
treatments put a stop to the pain ; but I can never be quite sure where
the credit of such cures belongs, since, as the doctors kindly remind
me, the patients have just " taken a great deal of good medicine." It
will suffice, perhaps, to cite two cases as samples of the rest.
In the latter part of January, 1892, a business man, then living on
West Chester Park, Boston, desired me to treat him. He had
rheumatism in his shoulder and arm ; the pain had been very severe
for several days, the usual medicinal remedies failed to reach the case,
and when I answered the call, which was in the early evening, he told
me he " was in for a terrible night," and if I could help him, he wished
by all that was good that I would set about it. I made such a
suggestion as the case required, and left him to get to bed and make
himself as comfortable as possible. The next day he sent me word
that he enjoyed a long night of sound sleep, and was free from
pain.
In the spring of 1894, I met an Irishman who takes care of
furnaces in the winter and lawns in the summer, and found him
suffering with muscular rheumatism, attended with much lameness and
pain. The trouble had been so bad that he had been unable to do his
work during a large part of the winter, and when I saw him he was
hobbling along with a cane. This case I relieved with a single treat
ment, so that he declares he has not felt a touch of it since.
Before leaving this part of the subject, some reference should be
made to methods of hypnotism to which my own experiments seem to
be closely allied,—methods of little interest to the popular audience
for which this paper was originally prepared, but having an important
bearing on the issue here raised.
While it is common for hypnotised subjects to manifest certain
pronounced symptoms of trance, it is claimed that true hypnosis may
exist when no such signs can be detected. Instead of amnesia,
hyperesthesia, anaesthesia, etc., with suspension of the higher brain
functions, there may be nothing more definite than a slight drowsiness
or heaviness to show that the subject has passed into a state of
"suggestibility." It is easy to conclude that, for therapeutic purposes,
strongly marked signs of the trance need not be present, the essential
condition being ready obedience to the suggestions made.
How subjects are brought into this condition and what is the true
relation between the operator and the subject are concisely explained
by Dr. Walter Leaf, in a review of Moll's Der Rapport in der Hypnose,
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 29
etc. He says : " These experiments [of Dessoir and Moll], and many
others like them, all point convincingly to the conclusion that rapport
is not a physical but a psychical phenomenon : that it is produced not
by any action of an effluence from the operator, magnetic or otherwise,
but by the action of the subject's own mind, obedient to suggestions
whether received externally or spontaneously generated. It is natural
to conclude that rapport is no more than a concentration of attention
■on the operator, an exaggerated case of the state of mind which in its
.different degrees we know in ordinary life as reverie, abstraction,
' absence of mind,' and so on."1
Professor William James, referring to the so called Nancy method
of producing the hypnotic trance, writes : " The simplest one is to
leave the subject seated by himself, telling him that if he close his
eyes and relax his muscles and, as far as possible, think of vacancy, in
£l few minutes he will ' go off.' On returning in ten minutes you may
find him effectually hypnotised." 2
It would be a rare psychical event for a person, who had never
been hypnotised and whose attention had not been previously called to
the matter, to lapse into the trance-sleep in obedience to auto-suggestion
alone. A novice seems to require something more than a spontaneously
generated impulse to enable him to " go off." The operator convinces
him that the proposed experiment is desirable and harmless ; his free
.consent is asked and obtained ; means are used to lead him to con
centrate his attention on the operator. Altogether, these appeals and
the action of his own mind amount to a powerful suggestion, well
■calculated to initiate the desired psychical phenomenon in the average
subject. And it may be added that hypnosis itself is produced by
suggestions received by the subject before he goes off.
If we accept Dr. Moll's definition of hypnotism, is there any evi
dence that it formed part of the psychical experience of the hundreds
of patients whom I have treated in the manner herein described ?
It is natural to suppose that among so many cases of hypnosis (?),
there would be some at least so pronounced as not to be mistaken ;
especially would this be likely to happen in the case of patients who
received a series of such treatments ; but I cannot recall a single
instance of the kind. It may be insisted, however, that only slight
manifestations were to be expected, because, like Dr. Russell Sturgis,
I hypnotised only " to the first degree ; " therefore we must pursue
the inquiry farther, and find out if the necessary steps were taken to
produce any such results.
None of my patients expected me to hypnotise them ; nor do I
1 Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXIV., Vol. IX., p. 213.
2 The Principles ofPsychology, Vol. II., p. 593.
30 C. M. Barrows.
believe that even 5 per cent of them associated a thought of hypnotism
with what I was trying to do for them. The instances were rare
indeed in which a patient during treatment concentrated his (or her)
attention on " vacancy," on thoughts of sleep, or on me ; in many cases
the indications pointed strongly the other way.
In one case the patient, a literary gentleman, wrote concerning his
mental experiences during the treatments he had received : " I was
never aware of the particular thing suggested each time, but
only of the desired outcome of all the treatments. During the
suggestion we [operator and patient] sat quietly without speaking, my
mind being perfectly at liberty. The suggestion occupied as a rule
about twenty minutes, during which time I usually repeated poetry to-
myself, or looked across to Boston, of which there is a fine view to be
had from Mr. Barrows's windows." A lady who received six treatments
for the cure of intermittent headache, read a fascinating book while I
was operating. By a single suggestion I relieved a child from severe
pain, who was not aware of my presence in the room. She was lying
on a bed beside which sat her nurse ; I entered the room noiselessly,
sat down where she could not see me, and, after doing my work, went
out without having attracted her notice, so that there was no chance
for expectancy or attention on her part. Here is another case in
which hypnotism would seem to have been impossible. In September,
1895, I became an inmate of a house occupied by a family of the name
of Meyers. I had been there only a few days when Mrs. Meyers met
me in the corridor one forenoon, and told me that her son, a boy of
six, was troubled with very annoying facial spasms. She said that his
father and herself had used every means in their power to break up
and cure the habit, but with no apparent effect. I had then seen very
little of the boy, but offered to try and help him by suggestion ; and
his mother on her part promised that Willie should not be told any
thing about the matter. About three o'clock in the afternoon of the
same day, I looked out of the window, near which I was at work, and
saw the boy playing with some other children on the lawn below. It
seemed a favourable time to try the proposed suggestion, and, taking;
care that he should not see me, I made it then and there. It was com
pletely successful, for all the family noticed that Willie's facial trouble
ceased from that day on.
A cogent argument in support of the theory herein set forth might
be based upon the striking analogy of this method of psychical treat
ment to that of telepathic suggestion or so-called thought-transference ;
for the same form of suggestion used in therapeutic experiments I
have found to be most successful in the sending of telepathic messages -r
and there is no doubt that an agent may suggest definite sensations to-
a percipient, who will receive and experience them without the aid of
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 31
hypnotism ; while to assume that the agent could hypnotise a distant
percipient, on whom he had not previously operated, would be mani
festly absurd.
The analgesia or inhibition induced by suggestion is liable to be
confounded with something quite different. It is not a general
stupifying and deadening of all sensation, like that produced by ether
or narcotics ; neither does it benumb a group of nerve-endings, or
deprive a limited segment of tissue of all feeling, as cocaine does.
Mr. P. W. H. Myers says : " It is by no means a mere ordinary
narcotic—a fresh specimen of the methods already familiar for
checking all conscious cerebration. It is a new departure ; it is the first
successful attempt at dissociating forms of sensation which throughout
the known history of the human organism have almost invariably
been found to exist together."
There is certainly implied, in every such case of suppression or pre
vention of pain, a principle and power of selection intelligently
exercised, by which the suggesting agent, whoever it be, singles out
from the various sensations that a nerve or group of nerves may be
capable of producing the one called pain, and imposes a stay-law
upon it. Suggestion which cures one pain does not necessarily
suppress every pain in the body, as we have seen in the case of the
man whose ankle was relieved, while his arm continued to ache. It
does not always remove the exciting cause of pain. The legitimate
function of therapeutic suggestion seems to be to act upon a special
occasion for a limited time, and such action may take place immedi
ately, or be postponed ; or, in some instances, a permanent beneficial
change is the result achieved.
I find it impossible to tell in a given case whether this psychical
remedy will act quickly or slowly. I treated the Irish day labourer
who had been suffering many months with general muscular rheu
matism, and in five minutes all the lameness and pain were gone, and
the trouble has not returned for nearly two years. I treated a girl
of thirteen who had a seated pain in the fleshy part of her right
shoulder, due to a sprain of the deltoid muscle which had been cured,
and the suggestion was repeated twice a week for six weeks before the
pain completely vanished. Some slight ailment often seems to offer
greater resistance than a much graver disease. Cases of obstinate
insomnia and mental depression are apt to yield more readily than
headache or indigestion. Stage-fright, worry, and definite fears, are
easily cured in this way ; while a fixed delusion, or other troublesome
idea, may be hard to dislodge.
Any theories we may devise as to the nature and mode of this form
of suggestion, based on present knowledge, must needs be provisional ;
32 G. M. Barrows.
and a wise man will hold them loosely, ready to abandon them at any
time for better. In matters which continually baffle the most profound
students, it certainly becomes us to speak with modesty and caution.
I feel quite unable to offer an adequate solution of the problems to
which I have called attention ; but I am convinced that the psychical
influence employed in these and many other experiments which I have
made is a form of telepathy, and ought to be studied as such. A
telepathic message is a suggestion of an agent that the percipient per
form an act or feel a sensation. If the percipient be suffering pain,
and the agent suggests to him a feeling or state of ease, the proper
response on the part of the percipient would be a sense of relief from
pain. Perhaps it does not help us much to say this, for telepathy
implies an agency inscrutable to us at present.
Nor can the real difficulties which confront the student be dis
missed or evaded with the shallow remark : " It is only another
case of the power of mind over mind." It ought to be plain enough
to any one capable of grasping the situation, that the form of psychical
suggestion under consideration is no more addressed to the mind of
the patient than an opiate prescribed for quieting pain is addressed to
the mind. Do not forget that I use " mind " in the popular sense.
The patient swallows the dose as directed, but experiences no mental
change in consequence ; but if the sedative eases the pain, he may then
think far enough to refer the relief to the operation of the drug. If
instead of an opiate a silent suggestion be made that the pain cease,
the patient is not even aware that such a telepathic message has been
lodged in his brain ; he does not know that anything has been done,
therefore he cannot act upon it mentally ; but after the proper neural
response has taken place, he may recall what has happened, and ascribe
the cessation of pain to the suggestion.
If the psychical experiments which I have made, a small number of
which are described in this paper, are indeed instances of telepathy,
then it follows that a telepathic message may be received by a per
cipient, and may produce within him a definite physical change,
without becoming matter of conscious thought at all. Again, admit
ting it to be telepathy, we may make free use of all that is known
about that mysterious subject to aid us in explaining this special
group of phenomena. We must also encounter the unsolved problems
which lie at the very threshold of investigation,—problems so profound
that one must think long and abandon many a plausible theory
before one can appreciate their scope even on the hither side. Por
if telepathy be what the findings of scientific research foreshow, no
invention, no discovery ever made by man is worthy to be compared
with it. It implies nothing less than a revolution in our science of
mind.
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 83
The paramount inquiry in this as in other forms of telepathic
action is, How is it done 1 And this question naturally divides into
two : first, Who is the agent ? Second, By what means does the agent
work 1
I suppose it is not too much to claim that psychical investiga
tion has made some definite progress towards answering these two
baffling questions, has in some fashion reached a provisional hypo
thesis. But if any headway has been made, the light has always
come by studying together many different groups of related pheno
mena, and never by studying a single group apart from the rest.
Then if it be granted that these cases of psychical suggestion con
stitute a group of phenomena apparently unclassified, we shall gain
much if we find that it properly belongs with some collection already
made.
Scanning our group as a naturalist examines his specimens for the
features common to them all, we find that in every one of these cases of
inhibition of pain some other agent than ordinary mental power
brought about the result. Assuming this fact as a basis of classifica
tion, we make the further discovery that the same thing is true of a
large collection of psychical phenomena already made ; that is to say,
the distinguishing fact appearing in each member of this collection is
that some other agent than ordinary mental power acted through a
human organism and produced the results observed. I need only refer
to a few cases of this kind to remind you of the whole class.
There are occasions, you are aware, in the lives of most people,
when they are surprised out of their habitual ways of thinking and
doing, and act in spontaneous obedience to irresistible promptings
which come they know not whence. Such experiences are memorable
because when the actor recalls what then took place, he perceives that
he thought something or did something for which he could give no
reason, save that one which explains everything or nothing, as you take
it : " It came to me."
Examples of this kind are not far to seek. A lady said to me the
other day in explanation of her absence from home, " I was busy that
morning in my usual fashion, when it suddenly came to me, I can't
tell how, only it seemed like a voice that said, ' Go to your sister, she
needs you.' The call was as clear and imperative as though I had
received a telegram or a letter, and I knew I ought to go." At the
close of the Civil War, a northern gentleman with a partner established
a mercantile business in a Virginia city. After being there several
months, he awoke from sleep in the middle of the night with the thought
impressed upon his mind, " There is something wrong at the store and
I must go and see about it." He could not account for this vivid
impression, for his sleep had been sound and undisturbed by dreams ;
D
34 C. M. Barroivs.
but obeying the summons he called up his partner, and together they
hastened to the place, just in season to prevent their money from
being carried off by a burglar. Several years ago a citizen of
Brooklyn, N.Y., while on a visit to another city, dreamed one night
that she saw a large block on the opposite side of the street from her
own home burn down, and the accounts in the newspapers next
morning proved her to have been dreaming of an actual event.
When Mr. Benjamin Blyth, one of the "arithmetical prodigies,"
was six years old, he asked his father, as they were taking a morning
walk, "At what hour was I born?" "At four a.m ," answered his
parent. "And what o'clock is it now?" "Seven fifty," said the
father. After walking on in silence for a few hundred yards, Ben
turned to his father and stated just how many seconds he had lived.
Mr. Blyth noted down the figures given by his son, made the calcula
tion on reaching home, and told Ben he was 172,800 seconds wrong.
" Oh, papa," exclaimed the child, " you have left out the two extra
days in the leap years 1820 and 1824," which was true.
Mr. Wm. J. Stillman said that Mr. Lowell once told him that he
wrote " The Vision of Sir Launfal " in two evenings, and never re
touched the poem. An entry in Longfellow's diary, dated December
30th, 1839, reads: " I wrote last evening a notice of Allston's poems,
after which I sat till twelve o'clock by my fire, smoking, when
suddenly it came into my mind to write the ' Ballad of the Schooner
Hesperus'; which I accordingly did. Then I went to bed, but could
not sleep. New thoughts were running in my mind, and I got up to add
them to the ballad. I feel pleased with the ballad. It hardly cost
me an effort. It did not come into my mind by lines, but by stanzas."
George Eliot declared that, in all she considered her best writing, there
was a " not herself " which took possession of her, and that at such
times she felt her own personality to be merely the instrument
through which this spirit acted. George Inness, the painter, once told
me that his best compositions came to him as visions ; that then a
power which did not move him at other times drove him to work
incessantly, yet with no tiresome effort, until his concept was fixed
upon the canvas.
The publications of this Society contain accounts of many similar
experiences, and others more remarkable. You remember the series of
articles on " The Subliminal Consciousness," in which Mr. Myers
treats of such phenomena, and what he there says about the Daemon of
Socrates, the monitory voices heard by Joan of Arc, the thirteen
" Arithmetical Prodigies," and the inspirations of genius in general.
You see from these few examples to what collection I assign my
group of phenomena. You know also, those of you who are acquainted
with the results of recent investigation, that the phenomena embraced
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 35
in this large collection are believed to have been produced by some
other agency than the ordinary process of normal cerebration.
According to the most scientific opinions now held, it was the
Subliminal Self that called the lady to her sister's bedside, roused the
merchant from sleep, enabled the distant dreamer to see the Brooklyn
fire, whispered to little Ben Blyth how old he was, indited the poems
of the Cambridge bards, held the pen of Mrs. Lewes, moved the brush
of George Inness, guided Socrates, commanded the Maid of Orleans,
and inspired every gifted artist whose works bear the stamp of genius.
Thus do the conclusions of modern science confirm the dictum of
Nbvalis, " The art of a well developed genius is far different from
the artfulness of the understanding, of the merely reasoning mind."
The common bond of relation between the form of suggestion of
which this paper treats and the phenomena belonging to this great
psychical class is that the source of the manifested power is the same
in both. The action, subliminally initiated, produced a change in living
brain, and ultimately modified certain movements in living bodies ;
and the evidence of this mode of action is strong enough, it seems to
me, to justify the following inferences :—1. This subliminal agent,
which acts directly upon brain substance to produce certain recognised
effects, may also be the cause of other observed effects not now ascribed
to it. 2. If this subliminal agent does sensibly affect one group of
brain cells (as those immediately concerned in thinking), another group
of cells may be so affected. 3. If this subliminal agent has chosen
certain brains to be the immediate organs and vehicles of its power, we
have no right to draw the line there, and affirm that this agent never
extends that same power through these immediate organs to other
living brains. 4. If this subliminal agent act through that portion of
the brain assumed to be the seat of the mental faculties, then, for
aught we know to the contrary, the same agent may act through other
portions of the brain not concerned in thinking, to produce effects
unrecognised by mind, as currents traverse the nerves which co-ordinate
motility.
Considering, therefore, what deductions may easily be made in the
premises, I incline to ask those who are wiser in such matters than I,
if the kind of suggestion here treated of be not the power of this
subliminal agent, exerted directly upon the proper nerve centres to
control a particular sensation.
I said a moment ago that the question of paramount interest in
this connection divides itself into two. I have tried to give in a
condensed form the answer of science to the first. May I presume on
your patience, and offer a word of reply to the second ?
By what means does this subliminal agent work ? We wish to
know how this subtle energy, which acts through a particular brain,
d 2
36 C. M. Barrows.
can make itself felt in another brain, near or remote. By the con
ditions of the problem, the communication or message cannot traverse
any recognised sensory channel on its way from one brain to another,
but must be conveyed by telepathy. Very well. If telepathy be
accepted as a fact in nature, just as the passage of light from distant
stars is accepted as a fact, we want to know how the message is
carried through space. Science has assumed a luminiferous ether
through which "star to star vibrates light," and many persons seem
content to believe that communications pass from brain to brain by
means of the same material vehicle. But another theory is possible.
What if it should appear that this subliminal agent is simply one
intelligent actor filling the universe with its presence, as the ether fills
space, the common inspirer of all mankind 1 By what authority is
it assumed that this wizard self resident in one man is related to
the selves of other men merely as, in the language of theology,
one personal soul is related to the rest 1 Are we sure that this
transcendent energy is parted into numberless distinct entities, one
for each human being?
Should we plunge into a darker mystery, were we to compare this
subliminal agent or self to a skilled musician presiding over many
pipes and keys, and playing through each what music he will T
Imagine each human being one of millions of animate organs, through
whose mind and body one unified, all-pervasive, immaterial self blows
with the breath of energy to make the varied music we call life. If
this were true, then would the subliminal self be a universal fountain
of energy and each man an outlet of the stream ; each man's personal
self would be contained in it and thus made one with every other ;
and with a slight change we might adopt the quotation : " In that
deep force, the last fact behind which analysis cannot go, all psychical
and bodily effects find their common origin."
APPENDIX.
Corroborative testimony as to several of the cases mentioned above
was obtained by Mr. Barrows, and sent by him to Dr. Hodgson. The
letter from Dr. Burrell, however, was addressed direct to Dr. Hodgson.
Mr. Barrows himself writes :—
Brookline, January 1st, 1896.
My Dear Dr. Hodgson,—I have been extremely busy with some very
interesting experiments, or you would have received what your letter of
yesterday calls for sooner. I can now give you all I am able to get in each
of the cases mentioned in my paper. Taking them in order, I think the
following statement will be plain.
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 37
1. The lady who had five sittings with a Boston dentist is Mrs. C, of
New York—letter enclosed.
2. Seven cases where patients had teeth extracted : in the four
children's cases, all happening years ago, I can get nothing of value. My own
case needs no vouchor, and the failure ditto. Have a letter from Mrs.
Christensen, the lady of the last experiment.
3. The Irish girl of seventeen, treated for neuralgia, was recently
married, and, as Mrs. Lynch, her letter is enclosed.
4. The Welshman, cured of neuralgia in eye and ear, is Mr. Woodfin, for
whom I wrote the enclosed statements, which he and his wife signed.
5. The school teacher, treated six years ago for neuralgia, went West,
and I find no trace of her.
6. Man with carbuncle was a soldier, whose name, regiment, etc., I did
not get at the time, for I did not then think of putting the experiment to use.
He was a stranger, stopping temporarily at a hotel, and I know not what
became of him.
7. Man with kidney trouble—with stricture of urethra—died years
ago. He was Mr. William Willward, a teacher of Elocution, in Providence,
R.I. His widow (his only family survivor) left Providence, I was told, and
I do not know where she is. I may be able to get track of her in a month or
two, and get a statement about the case.
8. Mr. Morse, the man with sprained ankle, contributes two letters, one
about this case, another about a cure of intermittent headache.
9. Poor woman with pinched finger joint contributes statement, written
and confirmed by her daughter, Mrs. Henderson.
10. Young married lady, treated in 1894, for intercostal pain, died a few
months later ; disease, melancholia. Her family know the facts ; but, for
reasons 1 have never been able to fathom, her husband has made a false
charge of fraud against me, and will have no communication with me.
11. The business man on Chester Park, treated for rheumatism, now lives
in New York, and contributes a statement.
12. The illiterate Irishman, also treated for rheumatism, signed a state
ment which I wrote out.
13. Can get nothing just now about the girl of thirteen, with pain in
deltoid. Her aunt, who lives here, informs me that the girl with all the
family (the A. 's) are in Germany, and Mrs. A. is critically ill. May get a
statement when she recovers, from both mother and daughter.
These are all the cases of prevention or suppression of pain mentioned in
the paper, of which a detailed statement is made. Two or three others of a
somewhat different character are alluded to incidentally.
You will bear in mind that during the years in which these experiments
were performed I had no motive for securing vouchers, as I did not then
contemplate using any such evidence.
I do not see in what way a physician's statement would strengthen the
evidence in these cases, since he could not bear witness to the treatment. In
cases involving dental operations, the operator, even if he recalled the case,
could not vouch for anything. In cases 3, 9, 12, no physician was employed.
38 G. M. Barrows.
Mr. Morse had three physicians during the progress of his sprain ; what
they could say, I do not know. Neither of thein saw him while he was
under my treatment. I will get their addresses if desirable. Mr. Chadwick
had medical attendance before I treated him, and it might be of interest to
determine the possible effect of the medicines prescribed on the subsequent
cure, if the doctor could now tell what doses were taken. But we must not
forget that it is the stopping of pain by suggestion which is to be proved, not
whether the patient recovered. What could a doctor testify to that 1
At my desire Mrs. A. took her daughter to Dr. Geo. W. Gay, of
Boston, before I treated her, and he wrote me on a prescription slip,
"sprain of the right deltoid muscle."—I enclose the slip. Please preserve.1
—Very truly yours, c M Barrows.
(1) Letter from Mrs. C. (See p. 22.)
New York City, November 21st, 1895.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—At the request of Mr. C. M. Barrows
of Brookline, Mass., I write you my experience under psychical treatment.
Several years ago while living in Brookline, I was in an extremely nervous,
run-down condition, and was obliged to have several teeth filled.
I went to Mr. Barrows for treatment before going to Boston to the
dentist, and I think Mr. Barrows also gave me another treatment while I was
in the dentist's chair.
My teeth were particularly sensitive and I was enabled to go through the
ordeal with very little pain, and when I felt pain it was as if on the outside of
me. I did not mind it, and after leaving the dentist I did not feel that
nervous exhaustion which I had always before experienced. Three or four
times I went to the dentist's having taken treatments before going, and I
felt very little pain and did not mind it ; but the fifth time I neglected to
have the treatment and suffered very much, showing me conclusively that
the pain was very much lessened by psychical treatment.
If you wish to publish this statement, I would thank you not to use my
name. While I am a firm believer in psychical treatment, I would prefer not
to have my name appear publicly.—Very truly yours,
(Signed)
(2) Letter from Mrs. Christensen. (See p. 23.)
17, Harvard-street, Brookline, Mass., November 11th, 1895.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—In September, 1894, before going to
the dentist to have a very sensitive double tooth extracted, I received
suggestive treatment from Mr. C. M. Barrows for the prevention of pain.
I had been dreading the extraction, and also the after-effects, which have
usually been very severe in my case.
I found that I was keenly aware of the grasp of the forceps, of the force
of the dentist's pull on the tooth, the tearing away, but I felt no pain during
the operation or subsequently.
Although a raw, chilly, blustering day, I went at once to Boston and was
exposed to the weather for some hours, but had no trouble in consequence,
1 The slip enclosed contained the statement given above.
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 39
neither suffered at all from the pain and inflammation which usually have
followed the extraction of a tooth. — Yours respectfully.
(Mrs.) A. H. Christensen.
(3) Letterfrom Mrs. Lynch. (See p. 25.)
26, Sewall-street, Brookline, December 14th, 1895.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—In the early part of January I had
a bad attack of neuralgia in my left temple, which affected my eye and the
side of my face. After I had been enduring the pain for several days and
grew no better, a friend took me to Mr. C. M. Barrows, who treated me by
psychical suggestion. All the pain stopped while I was taking the first
treatment ; but the next night I had a hard headache, and he gave me two
more treatments, which cured it.
Mr. Barrows did not hypnotise me or do anything which I could see or
feel; he sat down beside me for about fifteen minutes without speaking and
the pain was gone.—Yours respectfully, Mrs Agnbs Lynch.
(4) Statement of Mr. Woodfin. (See p. 25. )
School-street, Brookline, Mass., November 15th, 1895.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I want to saythat I have been having
a great deal of trouble with my left ear and all that side of my head. When
Mr. C. M. Barrows began to treat me, about the middle of last September, I
had had a very hard pain in my ear for about two years. Almost every
morning, when I first woke up, and at different times during the day, there
would be sharp stabs of pain in my ear, very hard to bear. Besides the
troubles I have now spoken of, my left eye also began to be sore and blood
shot about three weeks before Mr. Barrows took my case ; and it ached hard
almost all of the time.
Mr. Barrows did not give me medicine, but used what he called "psychical
suggestion," and stopped all the pain very quickly. My eye got well first,
then my ear, then my head. Thomas H. Woodfin.
I can testify to the truth of the above statement, and that, since my
husband received treatment from Mr. Barrows, he has been free from pain
and better in every way ; he sleeps well and is not nervous.
Mrs. Lavinia Woodfin.
(8) Lettersfrom Charles W. Morse. (Seep. 26.)
[From] Charles W. Morse, watchmaker, jeweller, and stationer.
Brookline, Mass. , November 29th, 1895.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—At your request I send the following
particulars of a cure, due, as I believe, to psychical suggestion, made by Mr.
C. M. Barrows of this town.
In June, 1893, as I was hurrying to take a train at the Brookline station,
I met with an accident in this wise : as I stepped from the platform upon
the track which I must cross to reach the train which was on the track
40 C. M. Barrows.
beyond, having my little girl, six years old, raised in my hands, which pre
vented my seeing where I was to step, I suppose I stepped on the edge of a
tie, which turned my foot, throwing us both to the ground. I picked up my
child unhurt and hobbled into the train which was waiting ; not realising
the extent of my injury, and thinking the pain would soon cease. Such an
occurrence was not uncommon with me, as that ankle had bothered me for
years in that way, as the result of a sprain in my boyhood. On reaching
Boston I took an express train for Worcester ; but as the pain rapidly in
creased, 1 tried to obtain relief at the first stopping place, which was S.
Framingham ; as the train was late, no stop could be made, and having a
brother in Ashland, the next station, I left the train there and called a
surgeon, Dr. Redfern of that town ; the ankle being badly swollen, it was
impossible to tell whether any bones were broken or not; the Doctor bandaged
the ankle and gave me a liniment, saying he would give me a year in which
to get over it. I borrowed crutches and started for Brookline. On reaching
home, I did not call another physician immediately, as Dr. Redfern had said
'' that it didn't make much difference what remedies were used, as the cure
would be simply a matter of time." As time went on, my ankle improved ;
but for some reason, I could not put my foot to the floor without intense
pain through the whole limb below the knee ; it was cold, also discoloured.
It was about four weeks after the accident that Dr. J. H. Woods of this
town offered to take me in to Boston to consult Dr. Burrell of the Mass.
Gen. Hospital. I accepted his offer and saw Dr. Burrell.
After a thorough examination, in which he found that the flat bone on
the outside of the foot had been split open, (as he could feel where it had
knit together) the two Doctors had a private consultation from which I was
excluded. Dr. B. said that the pain and discoloration were caused by
stagnation of the blood ; and recommended plunging the limb into hot water
and cold alternately, one minute in each ; and said that when the limb
resumed its normal colour, the pain would cease. This treatment I followed
for several weeks, until the discoloration was nearly gone ; and it certainly
afforded me much relief, but did not entirely banish the pain. This continu
ous pain, added to worry about my business, which I was unable to follow for
several months, affected my nerves and head to a very great extent ; I
could neither eat nor sleep, and fell unconscious two or three times. I was
reduced in weight to about 100 pounds, my usual weight being from 125 to
130. I did not take any medicine to ease the pain or cause sleep. At this
time Dr. F. B. Percy of Brookline sent me away [from] home, as the only
thing to be done in the case ; I was gone a month, and came back with my
nerves somewhat steadier, and general health improved, but not rid of the
pain in my ankle which seemed to puzzle the Doctors. When I first talked
with Mr. Barrows in the last of September of the following year, 1894, the
pain was as intense as ever with no prospect of cessation ; it was continuous
day and night ; it was just below the outer malleolus of the left ankle. Mr.
Barrows came into my store and talked with me about my health, and
inquired about my ankle. I told him my ankle seemed to be all right,
except the pain, which was still there ; he then said, " You had better come
up and see me, and let me take the pain away." I called on him by
appointment October 9th, 1894, and he gave me a treatment with no
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 41
apparent result. I called again October 10th, no change. October 11th, I
noticed between the two treatments that day and the day before, there
were three or four hours in which I was free from pain. October 12th, the
pain left for a few hours. October 16th, no apparent change. October
18th, the pain moved to the other foot. October 23rd, when I left Mr.
Barrows, had no pain. October 24th, I did not call on Mr. B., but my foot
ached very hard, especially on the back of the ankle. October 25th, called
again, had much pain in my leg just above the ankle. October 30th,
another treatment ; since the 25th, have had darting pains, but on this day
was nearly free from pain. The next time I called, he did not give me a
treatment ; since that time have been entirely free from that peculiar
pain.
Now in regard to the mode of treatment ; one half the time was taken up
in discussing the subject ; there was no laying on of hands, neither was any
spell cast over me. I was absolutely free all the time Mr. Barrows was
treating me ; just what the treatment was, it is impossible for me to say. I
will say this much, I was thoroughly prejudiced against it when I went there
and had no faith whatever that Mr. Barrows would help me, but was
desperate and ready to try almost anything that offered even the slightest
prospect of relief. Chas w MoKgE
Brookline, Mass., November 29M, 1895.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I send the following particulars of
a cure, due, as I believe, to psychical suggestion, made by Mr. C. M. Barrows
of this town.
A few months after the treatments mentioned in a former letter to you, I
went to see Mr. Barrows again, while suffering from an intense headache. I
have been subject to severe headaches for years, but at this time they were
more frequent than usual, occurring every week for several weeks, and
lasting two or three days at a time, rendering me unfit for everything.
Whether Mr. Barrows' former treatments had had any effect on my head, I
cannot say ; but one thing I do know, that the one special treatment he gave
me at this time of which I am speaking, cured me ; and I have been almost
entirely free from headache since that time. Just when I received that
treatment I cannot say, but it was about the last of March of the present
vear- Chas. W. Morse.
Letterfrom Dr. Herbert L. Burrell.
[From Dr. H. L. Burrell, an eminent surgeon of Boston, and well known
to me.—R.H.]
22, Newbury-street, Boston, Mass., January 3rd, 1896.
My Dear Hodgson,—I am very glad to give you the notes on Mr.
Morse's case. The history is essentially the same as he gives ; the " Physi
cal Examination" is :—" The right foot from the middle of leg anteriorly to
the middle of dorsum of foot is swollen and ecchymosed. There is no frac
ture, but much tenderness about the external malleolus. To try massage,
passive motion and a bandage. Favourable prognosis given."
The length of time that elapsed between the injury and Mr. Barrows'
treatment makes me suspect that the pain which occurred in his left ankle
42 C. M. Barrows.
was similar to that which occurred in his head, both of which were mental,
and which, it is very probable, Mr. Barrows did relieve by suggestion.
I am very much obliged to you for sending me this account of the case,,
for l am personally strongly of the belief that suggestion will cure patients,
If there is anything more that I can tell you about it, please let me know.—
Very truly yours, Herbert L. Burrell.
(9) Statement of Mrs. James Honey. (See p. 27.)
11, Walnut-street, Brookline, Mass., November 20th, 1895.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—Last February I was cured in a-
remarkable way of a pain from which I had suffered for nine years. In 1886,
the second finger of my right hand was pinched between the edges of two
swinging doors, in the dry goods store of Jordan, Marsh and Co., Boston.
The second joint was badly hurt, and was very lame and sore for a long time
before it seemed to heal. After it got so well that I could begin to use it,
the hurt joint was still enlarged and the whole finger so stiff that I could
bend it only a little. Being my thimble finger, I had to use it as I was able,
and almost every day it became swollen and ached. At times the pain was
severe, and, as I was obliged to work every day at washing, sewing, and
other kinds of housework and could not favour it much, it ached more or
less every night, and often was not free from pain for days together.
On the 4th of February, Mr. C. M. Barrows saw me while I was having
an unusually bad time with this finger. He told me that he had sometimes
helped such cases, and examined the joint carefully, while questioning me
about it. He did nothing to the finger, but was quiet for not longer than
three minutes, I should say, when all the pain stopped, and I have had none
of it since. I have been able to bend the finger and use it better ever since.
In two more treatments he also cured a painful lameness of my neck, which
resulted from grippe.—Respectfully yours, Mks James Honey-
I can testify to the truth of abovo statement of my mother's, knowing
how much she suffered from her finger, and being at home when Mr. Barrows
helped her.—Respectfully, Mrs a m Henderson.
(11) Letterfrom Mr. Chadwick. (Seep. 28.)
Hemenway and Browne,
New York and Boston.
Browne, Beeche and Co.,
Valparaiso.
47. Cedar-street, New York, November 20th, 1895.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I am pleased to place before you,
at the request of Mr. C. M. Barrows, a certain case of sickness for which he
treated me.
It was in January, 1892, when I was then living in Boston. I had been
suffering for about a week with acute rheumatism, and had been unable to
get much, if any, sleep at night. I was not able to get relief from any source,
and decided to call in Mr. Barrows. He came in the evening, and after his
Suggestion without Hypnotism. 43
treatment I enjoyed a refreshing night's sleep; the pain entirely disappeared,
and since that time I have had only infrequent returns of the rheumatism.—
Yours truly, j R Chadwick.
(12) Letter from Mr. Harris. (See p. 28.)
46, Morse Ave, Brookline, Mass., December 10th, 1895.
Dr. RichardHodgson,—Dear Sir,—At the request of Mr. C. M. Barrows,
I am glad to acknowledge the help I received from his method of treatment
in the spring of 1894. I had been troubled with muscular rheumatism all
the previous winter, and had so much lameness and pain that it was often
impossible for me to attend to my work. I saw Mr. Barrows some time in
May, and he offered to help me if 1 would call at his house. I did so ; and
I remember that my back and legs were aching hard, and I was so lame that
it hurt me to sit down in the chair he placed for me. He sat in another
chair several feet away, and asked some questions about my case ; then he
stopped talking for two or three minutes, and I don't know what he did, but
the pain all left me. I began to move about, then stood up, and found the
lameness gone too, and I have had no rheumatism since.
James H. Harris.
The following additional corroborations have been received while
this paper was passing through the press. The first refers to the case
given on p. 30.
58, University-road, Brookline, Mass., April 16th, 1896.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I very willingly comply with the
request of Mr. Barrows to corroborate his statement in regard to my
son Willie. He had been troubled with a twitching of the face for several
weeks. His father and I had tried to break him of the habit, but could
not. I told Mr. Barrows about it, as he says, one morning last September,
and Willie had no more twitching after that day.—Respectfully yours,
Bertha Meyers.
The next note, addressed to Dr. Hodgson, was received by him
on January 20th, 1896. It will be observed that the favourable
effects produced by the treatment in this case seem to have been
somewhat slighter that in most of the cases described, and perhaps of
a more purely mental nature.
Dear Dr. Hodgson,—I am glad to make an informal statement, to you,
of Mr. Barrows' work with me ; although, for several reasons, I do not
think that I should care to have the same made public.
Mr. Barrows treated me last spring before an hour with the dentist,
and on this occasion I experienced no pain at all ; although it is but fair
to say that, on my questioning the dentist, he said that he could not be
sure that what he had just done, should, of necessity, have produced pain.
He expected it would, but could not be certain in the matter.
This autumn and early winter Mr. Barrows has given me five or six
treatments for the same reason. These operations were more serious,—a
44 C. M. Barrows.
sensitive wisdom tooth to be excavated and a large filling to be replaced
in a position between the teeth which required preliminary "wedging,"—
besides several minor operations. My experience with these hours in the
dentist's chair have varied ;—not, I think, so much according to the gravity
of the work on the teeth, as,—in so far as I can tell,—according to my
receptivity toward Mr. Barrows' suggestion. At no time during these
sittings has pain been totally suppressed ; although at times, I confess
that I have felt as if it were decidedly deadened—the result seeming to me
the same as that producible by an anaesthetic. The general results, how
ever, have been : a certain relaxed feeling in place of the usual nervous
tension of such times ; a certain sense of indifference to the pain—a
purely mental state ; and an almost complete freedom from nervous pros
tration after the operations. At the time of the operations,—the time
when Mr. Barrows' post-suggestion was to work,—I have felt physical
drowsiness, a sense of eyelids being heavy, brain somewhat numb, etc.,
combined (although it may seem curious) with a sense of mental exhilara
tion. These, I may add, are the symptoms I experience during a treatment
of Mr. Barrows' ; though there is frequently added to these a slight sense
of snapping in the head, as if the nerves were, in actuality, relaxing.
As I suffer habitually from over-tension of the nerves at the back of the
head and of the back, this is, perhaps, not extraordinary. This hyper
sensitive condition of nerves (much less than formerly with me, but still
evident) should perhaps be taken into account in considering the lack of
total suppression of sensation in my case ; also, probably the fact that (I
think) I am very suggestible, and that, as I have always dreaded the
dentist's instruments, I may make a strong auto-suggestion each time in
favour of pain. I fancy this to be the case, and have in the chair, once
or twice, had the sensation as if one suggestion were struggling with
another,—the sense of indifference to pain with that of dread. I am afraid
I do not put this into scientific language and that it is not very available
as testimony Believe me, etc,
(Signed in full)
Dr. Hodgson writes with reference to the case of Mr. J. R.
Chadwick, see above, No. 11 :—-
May, 1896.
Mr. W. L. Parker, residing in Boston, well known to me and also an
Associate of the American Branch of the S.P.R., was a partner in the firm of
Hemenway and Browne, in which Mr. Chadwick is an employé. At my
request, Mr. Parker, on a visit recently to New York, questioned Mr.
Chadwick closely about his experience, and reported that he is a man of
shrewdness and intelligence, and of good judgment ; had already weighed
the various other considerations offered to account for the cessation of his
pain, etc., but was unable to attribute it to any other cause but the treatment
of Mr. Barrows.
R. Hodgson.
Poltergeists. 45
IV.
POLTERGEISTS.
By Frank Podmork.
Visitations of raps and loud noises, accompanied by the throwing of
stones, the ringing of bells, and other disturbances of an inexplicable
kind have been known for many centuries. Mr. Lang (Cock Lane and
Common Sense, p. 170) cites a case as early as 856 a.d. In the last
century there were many outbreaks of the kind, nor were the
manifestations confined to any one country. There was the celebrated
Cock Lane case, occurring in London in 1762 ; there was a tumult
of bell-ringing in the Russian monastery of Tzarekonstantinoff in
1753 1 ; and we hear of a case, in 1750, in Saxony, of mysterious
stone-throwing which lasted for some weeks, much to the annoyance
of a clergyman and his two sisters who were the victims of the
outbreak.2 In a small and now rare book, called Bealings Bells,
published in 1841 by Major Moor, F.R.S., for sale at a Church
bazaar, accounts* are given, mostly at first-hand, of some 20 cases of
this kind. The disturbances described in Bealings Bells consisted
generally of bell-ringing, but they included occasional noises of other
kinds, movements of furniture, throwing of crockery and small objects.
The S.P.R. has received many reports of similar disturbances. Two
of the most striking have already been published by Mr. Myers in the
Proceedings. (See Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VII., pp. 160-173, and
pp. 383-394—Mr. Bristow's case.) In these two cases no opportunity
was afforded of personal investigation ; but in several instances
Members of the Society have been able, either to be present during the
actual occurrence of the disturbances, or to visit the locality and
interrogate the witnesses immediately after the events. In the present
paper it is proposed to deal with the results of these investigations.
I.—The Worksop Case.
The first case of the kind occurred at Worksop in 1883. Subjoined
is a report, drawn up at the time, of my inquiries a few weeks after
the occurrences described.
1 The Russian Archives, 1878, pp. 278—9, translated and forwarded to us by
T. Bruhns.
2 Annali dello Spiritismo, quoted in Light, February 22nd, 1896.
46 Frank Podmore.
Report on the Wokksop Disturbances. By F. Podmore.
April 11th, 1883.
At the beginning of March, 1883, the Retford and Gainsborough Times
and other local papers gave accounts of some remarkable disturbances which
had occurred in the first two or three days of the month, at the house of a
small horse-dealer in Worksop, named Joe White. One or two members
of the Society entered into communication with the principal persons named
in the newspaper reports, and with a friend in the neighbourhood, who
very kindly took some trouble in inquiring into the matter for the Society.
But it soon became obvious that, as nearly all the witnesses of the
occurrences related were of the humbler class, and unable, therefore, to
write a connected account of what had happened, the best way to arrive at
the truth of the matter was for one of us to go in person to make inquiries.
Accordingly, at the request of the Haunted House Committee, I went down
to Worksop on the afternoon of Saturday, April 7th, with the intention of
inspecting the actual scene of the occurrences, and of personally interro
gating the principal witnesses ; in order, if possible, to arrive at some
rational explanation of the business. I spent the Saturday evening and
the whole of the following day in my inquiries, and have, I think, obtained
as intelligible and trustworthy a history of the matter as the lapse of time,
the nature of the phenomena themselves, and the character of the witnesses
will permit.
I derived my information from seven principal eye-witnesses of the dis
turbances, whom I interrogated, with the single exception of White himself,
separately. I wrote out the statement of each witness in full immediately
after the interview, and the three most important witnesses, Higgs,
Currass, and White, subsequently read through my notes and signed them.
The depositions of these three persons are printed in full below. My time
was too short to allow a second interview with the four other principal
witnesses, and I was unable, therefore, to obtain their signatures to the
depositions ; but I have incorporated the statements of all the principal
witnesses in my report.
Besides the seven chiefly concerned, I questioned, in presence of White
and his wife, three or four other witnesses of the disturbances, viz.,
White's brother Tom, a bright-looking lad of 18 or 20 ; Solomon Wass and
his wife, next-door neighbours of the Whites, the former an ordinary
North countryman of the lower class, the latter a pleasant-looking, intelli
gent woman ; and George Ford (Buck Ford), a man of about 28. From
these I obtained general confirmation of the various incidents, as described
by White, Higgs, &c., at which they had themselves been present ; but time
did not permit of much cross-questioning, nor of taking down their evidence
in full.
White's house has been built, according to his own statement, about
seven years. He has only resided in it three years. I was unable to
discover anything about the former occupants. The house stands at the end
of a piece of waste land, called the New Building Ground, with another
house or cottage attached ; the nearest separate building being a public-
house, about 1U0 yards off. With that exception, there are no other buildings
within about 200 yards.
N
N
N
Yard,
with
piggeries,
&c,
on
the
sides
marked
N
and
O.
A
1
•
3
Si
5
B if a<5
KITCHEN
M
(m
H
M
a
Front
room,
used
as
a
bedroom
;
the
front
door being
locked,
and
having
paper
pasted
over
it,
so
that
it
could
not
be
opened
without
detection.
A
Outer
door.
B
A
cask. 0
The
bin.
D
Fireplace. E
Cupboard. F
Squab
sofa.
G-
Door
into
inner
room.
H
Door
into
"pantry"
below
stairs.
1
Chest
of
drawers.
J
Door
on
to
landing
K
at
foot
of
stairs.
L
Table. M
Chairs.
48 Frank Podmore.
There is no entrance to the house by the front, the front door being
locked, and the joints secured with paper from the inside. Entrance is
obtained by a covered passage, open at either end, which separates the twc
houses, and gives access immediately to a yard, surrounded on one side by
high palings, and on the other three by piggeries, stables, and the two
houses. The plan of the ground-floor of White's house is apparent from the
accompanying sketch. The kitchen is about 15 ft. square. The upper floor
is divided into two rooms, the back one, corresponding to the kitchen, being
used as a bedroom for Tom and the children ; the front one as a store-house
for bacon, horse-furniture, and various odds and ends. There is also a
garret above this, into which I did not enter, it being at the time full of
bacon in salt. The whole house, not excepting the bedrooms, is hung with
bacon, the very staircase being lined with it, so that I had to draw my coat
close to me in going up. A large part of the bacon, as I was told by White,
had gone bad during the period of the disturbances.
The front or inner room on the ground-floor was an ordinary room, like
all the rest of the house half filled with bacon, and containing, besides
bedroom furniture, a large beer-barrel on trestles ; everything in it filthily
dirty.
I looked all over the house in daylight, but could discern no holes in the
walls or ceilings, nor any trace of the extensive and elaborate machinery
which would have been required to produce the movements by ordinary
mechanical means.
The history of the disturbances, as gathered from the various witnesses
whom I interrogated, appears to be briefly as follows :—
Nothing remarkable had been seen or heard in the house until about the
20th or 21st February, 1883, when, as Mrs. White was alone with two of the
children in the kitchen one evening, washing up the tea-things at the table,
the table tilted up at a considerable angle ; the candle was upset, and the
wash-tub only saved by Mrs. W. holding it. She positively assured me that
she exerted no pressure whatever upon the table, and the whole incident
struck her as very extraordinary. Her husband made light of it at the time.
On Monday, February 26th, White was absent from home until the
Wednesday afternoon. On the Monday his wife allowed a girl, Eliza Rose,
the child of an imbecile mother, to come into the house and share her bed at
night. White returned on Wednesday night, but left on the following
morning until Friday afternoon. During that one night the girl slept on
the squab. On Thursday night, March 1st, at about 11 p.m., Tom White
went up to bed—the children having gone up some hours before. At about
11.30, Mrs. White and Eliza Rose being then alone in the kitchen, various
things, such as a corkscrew, clothes-pegs, a salt-cellar, &c., which had been
in the kitchen only a few minutes before, came tumbling step by step down
the kitchen stairs. Tom positively and solemnly denied having thrown the
articles, and the mystery was increased when, at least 20 minutes after he
had gone upstairs, no one having left the room in the interval, some hot coals
were thrown down.
On the following night, March 2nd, at about the same hour—White,
Mrs. White, and Rose being in the kitchen—a noise was heard as of some*
Poltergeists. 49
one coming down the passage between the two houses, and stopping just
outside the outer door. White told Rose to open the door, but she was too
frightened to do so. Then they heard a surcingle and immediately afterwards
some pieces of carpet thrown down the stairs. Then followed some knives
and forks and other things. The girl picked them up ; but they followed
still faster. White then left the room to go up to Tom. During his absence
one of the ornaments flew off the mantelpiece into the corner of the room
near the door. Nothing was seen by the two women ; but they heard it fall,
and found it there. Their screams summoned White down ; as he entered
the room his candle went out, and something struck him on the forehead.
The girl picked up the candle—which appears to have left the candlestick—
and two new ones which had not been in the house previously, from the
ground ; and as soon as a candle was lit, a little china woman left the
mantelpiece, and fell into the corner, where it was seen by White. As soon
as it was replaced it flew across the room again, and was broken. Other
things followed, and the women being very frightened, and White thinking
that the disturbances presaged the death of his child, who was very ill with
an abscess in the back, sent Tom (who was afraid to go alone) with Ford to
fetch the doctor. Mrs. White meanwhile took one of the children next door.
Rose approached the inner room to fetch another, when things immediately
began to fly about and smash themselves in that room. After this all appear
to have been absent from the house for a short time. White then returned,
with Higgs, a policeman, and, whilst they were alone in the kitchen,
standing near the door, a glass jar flew out of the cupboard into the yard ; a
tumbler also fell from the chest of drawers in the kitchen, when only Higgs
was near it. Both then went into the inner room, and found the chest of
drawers there turned up on end and smashed. On their return they found
Rose, Wass, and Tom White in the kitchen [? and Mrs. Wass], and all saw
a cream jug, which Rose had just placed on the bin, fly four feet up in
the air and smash on the floor. Dr. Lloyd and Mrs. White then entered,
and in the presence of all these witnesses, a basin was seen to rise slowly
from the bin—no person being near it except Dr. Lloyd and Higgs. It
touched the ceiling, and then fell suddenly to the floor, and was smashed.
This was at 12 p.m. All then left except Tom White and his brother.
The disturbances continued until about 2 a.m., when all grew quiet, and
the Whites slept. At about 8 a.m., on Saturday, the 3rd, the disturbances
began again.
White left the kitchen to attend to some pigs ; and, in his absence, Mrs.
White and Rose were left alone in the kitchen. A nearly empty port wine
bottle leaped up from the table about four feet into the air, and fell into a
bucket of milk, standing on the table, from which Mrs. White was filling
some jugs, &c.
Then Currass appears to have been attracted to the scene. He entered
with White, young Wass, and others, and viewed the inner room. They
had but just returned to the kitchen, leaving the inner room empty, and the
door of communication open, when the American clock, which hung over the
bed, was heard to strike. (It had not done so for 18 months previously.)
A crash was then heard, and Currass, who was nearest the door, looked in,
and found that the clock had fallen over the bed—about four feet broad—
K
50 Frank Podmore.
and was lying on the floor.1 Shortly afterwards —no one being near it—a
china dog flew off the mantelpiece, and smashed itself in the corner near the
door. Currass and some others then left.
Some plates, a cream-jug, and other things, then flew up in the air, and
.smashed themselves in view of all who were in the kitchen—Rose, the
Whites, and Mrs. Wass.
White then lay down on the sofa ; but disturbances continued during his
siesta. In particular, some pictures on the wall next the pantry began to
move, but were taken down at once by his brother. At about 2 p.m. a
Salvation Army woman came in, and talked to White. Rose only was with
them in the kitchen. A candlestick flew from the bin, and fell behind the
Salvation Army woman, as she stood near the pantry door. She left the
room in terror.
Other things then followed at intervals. A full medicine bottle fell without
breaking. An empty medicine bottle and a lamp-glass fell and broke
themselves. It was then about 4 p.m., and White could stand it no longer.
He told the girl she must go ; she did in fact leave before 5 p.m. After her
departure nothing whatever of an abnormal character took place, and the
house has remained undisturbed up to the present time.
With regard to the positions of the persons present, in relation to the
objects moved, it may be stated generally that there was no possibility in
most cases of the objects having been thrown by hand. It will be seen, on
reference to the depositions of the witnesses which are appended, that the
objects were frequently moved in a remote corner of the room, or even in
an adjoining room. Moreover, the character of the movements, in many
cases, was such as to preclude the possibility of the objects having been
thrown.
Of course the obvious explanation of these occurrences is trickery on the
part of some of the persons present. In regard to this, it seems to me a.
matter of very little significance that most of the educated people in Worksop
believe White himself to have caused the disturbance. For most educated
persons, as we know, would not be ready to admit any other than a
mechanical explanation, and if such an explanation be adopted, White, the
owner of the house, a man of considerable intelligence, whose record was not
entirely clean, and who was himself present on the occasion of nearly all the
disturbances, must obviously be the agent. But whilst believing White to
be at the bottom of the matter, none of the persons with whom I conversed
were prepared with any explanation of his modus operandi. That he should
have thrown the things was universally admitted to be impossible. And
1 It will be noted that there is a discrepancy between White's and Currass'
version of this incident. Mrs. White, however, confirmed her husband's account ;
and I have little doubt that the statement in the text is substantially accurate.
Currass is more likely than White to have been mistaken in his recollection of White's
position at the time ; and Currass' account of his own position does not differ greatly
from that given by White. The material point, and one on which both witnesses are
agreed, is that no one saw the clock fall. Currass' written statement is not clear on
this point, but he told me viva voce that his attention was drawn to what had taken
place by hearing the crash. He only then turned round and saw the clock lying on
the floor.—F.P., April, 1883.
Poltergeists. 51
beyond this, I could discover little more than an unquestioning faith in the
omnipotence of electricity. No one professed to have any idea of what
mechanical means could have been employed, or how they could have been
adapted to the end in view. Still less did any one pretend to have discovered
any indications in the house itself of any machinery having been used.
Moreover, there was a total absence of any apparent motive on White's part,
supposing him to have been capable of effecting the movements himself.
Whilst he was unquestionably a considerable loser—to the extent of nearly
£9 as estimated by himself, though this estimate is probably exaggerated—by
the articles broken, he appears to have reaped no corresponding advantage.
The one motive which I heard suggested—if we disregard a report in one
newspaper, subsequently contradicted in another, to the effect that White
was anxious to buy the house, and to buy it cheap —was that he produced
the disturbances in fulfilment of a sporting bet. But I saw no reason to
regard this explanation as anything but a scholium evolved by some ingenious
commentator from the facts themselves.
Again, had White himself been the principal agent in the matter, it is
■clear that he must have had at least two confederates, for he was not himself
present during the disturbances on the Thursday night—which might,
indeed, have been caused by his brother Tom—nor was either he or his
"brother present during some of the occurrences on the following day. More
over, these confederates must not only have been extremely skilful, but
they must have been capable of more than ordinary reticence and self-
control. For it is remarkable that, with the single exception of the statements
made by the girl Rose, no one professed to have heard even a hint from
White himself, from his brother, or from any other, of any trickery in the
matter.
Moreover, it is hard to conceive by what mechanical appliances, under the
circumstances described, the movements could have been effected. The
clock, for instance, —a heavy American one—was thrust out from the wall
in a horizontal direction, so as apparently to clear a 4ft. bedstead which lay
immediately beneath it, and the nail from which it depended remained in
situ on the wall. The objects thrown about in the kitchen moved generally,
but by no means always, in the direction of the outer door. And it is
noticeable that, in most cases, they do not appear to have been thrown, but
in some manner borne or wafted across the room ; for, though they fell on a
stone floor 15ft. or 16ft. distant, they were often unbroken, and were rarely
shivered. And it is impossible to reconcile the account given of the move
ment of some other objects, variously described as "jerky," " twirling," and
"turning over and over," with the supposition that the objects depended
on any fixed support, or were in any way suspended.
Lastly, to suppose that these various objects were all moved by mechani
cal contrivances argues incredible stupidity, amounting almost to imbecility,
on the part of all the persons present who were not in the plot. That the
movement of the arms necessary to set the machinery in motion should
have passed unobserved on each and every occasion by all the witnesses, is
almost impossible. Not only so, but Currass, Higgs, and Dr. Lloyd, all
independent observers, assured me that they examined some of the objects
which had been moved, immediately after the occurrence, with the express
B 2
52 Frank Podmore.
intention of discovering, if possible, any clue to an explanation of the
matter, but entirely failed to do so. These men were not over-credulous ;
they certainly were not wanting in intelligence ; and they were not, any of
them, prepossessed in favour of White. But they each admitted that they
could discover no possible explanation of the disturbances, and were fairly
bewildered by the whole matter.
Statement of Joe White. A fair witness. I think that he always
intended to speak the truth, but that occasionally his memory proved
treacherous. In all importants points, however, he was corroborated
by his wife (an excellent wituess), Higgs, and Currass. —F. P.
I returned home about 7 on the Friday night (March 2nd). I had been
absent from home on Monday and Tuesday nights : and it was during my
absence that my wife took in the girl Rose, who shared her bed in the front
inner room. I slept at home on Wednesday, and the girl then slept on the
squab in the kitchen. I left again on Thursday morning, and returned as
mentioned on the Friday.
When told by my wife and Tom what had happened on Thursday night, I
said some one must have been tricking, and didn't think much more about
it. But I chaffed the lass (Rose) a good deal, for she was much frightened.
About 11.30 on Friday evening, when my wife, the girl, and I were alone
in the kitchen, just going up to bed, I heard a noise as if some one had
come down the passage between the two houses, and were standing just
outside our door. They didn't knock; but I said to Rose, "Go and see
who's there." But she was frightened and didn't go. Then presently, a
lot of things came rattling down the stairs. I don't know what came first :
but a lot of things came—a surcingle, bits of carpet, knives and forks, a
corkscrew, &c. The girl went to pick them up, and put them on the table,
and just as fast as she put them on more things came down. Then my wife
said to me, " The salt cellar came down last night, but you won't have it
down to-night, for here it is on the table. " She was using it at the time for
salting Tom's dinner for next day. She had hardly said this, when the salt
cellar flew off from the table, and into the corner near the outer door. Rose
was in that corner, and not near the table : my wife was at the table, but
certainly didn't touch the cellar. I saw the thing go, though I couldn't
believe my eyes. My wife didn't see it go, but we both saw it as it
struck the wall in the corner. All the salt was spilled out of it. I fairly couldn't
believe my own eyes ; but I couldn't help thinking it must be Tom. So I
went upstairs to him, and told him to leave off. " Thou'lt frighten our
Liz to death." He said, "It's not me, Joe. I'll take my oath it isn't. I've
never thrown nowt down. " Whilst I was still talking to him, I heard a.
crash downstairs ; and the women screamed; and my wife cried, "Come
down, Joe." As I was just coming into the room the candle which I held in
my hand went out—I don't know how at all—and we were left in darkness,
except for the firelight. Then something hit me on the forehead, and I
cried out, ' ' Who threw that ? " Then there was a crash in the corner. I
found out when we had a light again that the salt cellar had fallen again into
the corner, and broken itself. Then I found out that the candle was not in the
candlestick, and asked where it was. I told the girl to look for it, and then
Poltergeists. 53
she felt among the things at the bottom of the stairs and picked up three
candles, two of them quite new. We had only had two candles in the house
[Mrs. White expressly confirmed this. —F.P.] which had been bought just
before, and both had been partly burnt. I lit the old ones and left the new
ones on the table ; but they disappeared afterwards, and I have never seen
them since.
When the candle was lit again, I saw the little china woman jump off
from the mantelpiece, and go into the same corner. It fell on its side, and
then righted itself, and stood upright, unbroken. I distinctly saw it go
through the air ; it passed near me as I stood about the middle of the room.
None of us were near the mantelpiece. I picked it up, and presently it fell
into the corner again, and broke itself. Then the tea-caddy and the candle
stick, all from the mantelpiece, followed. Then I went out and found
George Ford (" Buck " Ford), and asked him to fetch Dr. Lloyd for the
child—for they had told me that all this disturbance meant the death of the
child, who was very ill with an abscess in its back.
Then I got my wife to take the little lad out, and lay him next door, he
lying on the squab in the kitchen at the time. [Mrs. W. denied this, and
said he was in the inner room.—F. P.] Rose went with her, and they took
all the children with them. Before going, Rose had to go into the inner
room, and then things began to fly about there and make a disturbance. All
had been quiet there before.
I went after the others into the next house and stayed there some little
time. When I came back, I found Police-constable Higgs in the kitchen.
He and I were alone there. (Rose all this time was next door.) We heard
a crash in the inner room, and we went in—Solomon Wass and Tom, who
had just entered, with us, and Higgs with his lantern,—and we found the
chest of drawers turned up on end, and the lustres and looking-glass, and
everything else that had been on it, in pieces on the floor. Then we came
back into the kitchen, and we saw the cupboard door open, and a big glass
jar flew out, and flew into the yard and broke itself. Also some things
flew off the bin at the side of the door, from the end near the fire ; and they
pitched in the corner, and then went out in the yard. Things often pitched
on the floor by the door first, and then got up again and flew out into the
yard.
Then Dr. Lloyd came in with my wife, and Higgs showed him what had
happened in the inner room. Then when we had got into the kitchen again,
and were all standing near the door of the inner room—Higgs, my wife, and
Tom, and Wass, and Lloyd—who was about six feet from the bin, and the
nearest to it of our party—we all saw a basin which was lying on the bin
near the door, get up two or three times in the air, rising slowly a few
inches or perhaps a foot, and then falling plump. [Mrs. W. corroborated
this, and so did Mr. Wass, the next-door neighbour, who was also present.
—F. P.] Then it got up higher, and went slowly, wobbling as it went, up
to the ceiling, and when it reached the ceiling, it fell down all at once, and
broke itself.1 Dr. Lloyd then looked in the bin, saying the devil must be
1 During this scene the room was lighted by one candle, Higgs's lantern, and
a blazing fire ; so that the light was pretty good.
54 Frank Podmore.
in the house, and then left. All the others shortly afterwards left, Mrs. W. ,
Rose and the children stopping in the next house. Tom and I sat in the
chair on either side of the fire until the next morning at 8 a.m. Things
kept on moving every now and then until about 2 a.m., and then was all
quiet, and we got to sleep a bit. At about 8 a.m. I had to go out to see
after a pig which had been pigging, and then things began again ; and a lot of
folks came in to see about it. Currass came in, and I went with him into
the inner room and showed him the chest of drawers, he and I alone ; we
came out leaving the door open—I am quite sure it was open—and I was
sitting near the fire, and Currass was just inside the kitchen, not far from
the open door, when Wass's little lad, who was sitting at the table, said,
"There's the clock striking," meaning the big clock which hung over our
bed. I couldn't hear it, and I said it was a lie. Just then we heard a crash,
and I asked what it was, and Currass looked round, and said it was the
American clock had fallen right across the bed, and lay on the floor at the
foot, with its bottom knocked out. Then I took it into the yard. I think—
indeed, I am sure, that Coulter was not here when all this happened. The other
clock fell and was broken, but whether before or after I cannot remember ;
and he may have seen that. I don't remember where the girl Rose was
when the American clock fell. She may have been in the kitchen, but she
certainly wasn't in the inner room ; no one was in that room, I am sure. I
don't remember saying just at that time, though I often did say, that
wherever she went the things smashed.
After that, Currass and I and one or two others were standing near to
the outer door talking, when the china dogs, or one of them, flew off the
mantelpiece and smashed ; and lots of things kept on flying into the corner
and smashing. I saw one of the dogs leave the mantelpiece and go through
the air. I don't remember exactly when Coulter came ; he may have been
here when the china dog was smashed, but I don't remember that he was.
Then a cream jug fell off the table ; it had done so four or five times without
smashing. At last I filled it with milk, and had placed it on the bin, when
it suddenly fell off and smashed, and the milk was all spilt.
Then I was tired, and lay down on the squab ; but things kept moving.
I was told some pictures on the wall began to move, but I didn't see them.
At about 2 p. m. , a Salvation Army woman came in and was talking to me as
I lay on the squab ; she stood near the inner door ; Rose was near the outer
door, having brought in some carpet. There were two candlesticks on the
bin, at the end near the fireplace. Suddenly something dropped behind the
Salvation Army woman. No one saw it going through the air ; but we
turned round and found that it was one of the brass candlesticks. It was
half balanced on the small end where the candle goes, and was wobbling
about on the end. Then the Salvation woman said, "I must go ;" and
she went.
Then a little after, when Rose was going to lay down the carpet, and no
one else in the room, a medicine bottle, full, fell from the bin on to the roll
of carpet, about three or four yards off, and was broken. A lamp-glass had
fallen several times without breaking ; but at last that fell and broke. Then
an empty bottle flew off from the mantelpiece. That was one of the last
things that happened. Well then, I couldn't stand it any longer. Wherever
Poltergeists. 55
the lass seemed to go, things seemed to fly about. So I said to her, " You'll
have to go." She began to roar. But my wife gave her some tea, and she
went. That was between 4 and 5 p.m., very soon after the last disturbance.
Nothing happened after she left. We sat up in the kitchen that evening, a
lot of us, as the newspapers tell ; but nothing happened at all.
I have been in the house three years. I think the house had been built
four or five years before that. Nothing of the kind had ever happened in it
before, as far as I know, except that once I thought I heard some one moving
in the yard, and fancied it might be some one after the fowls ; but there was
no one there ; and there was that strange tilting of the table when my wife
was washing up the things about a week before.
The Wasses and the Willises [Mrs. Willis is Wass's sister] had lived
together in the next house ; but since all these disturbances, the Willises
have left the house ; but Mr. and Mrs. Wass are still there.
(Signed) Joseph White.
New Building Ground, Worksop.
April 8th, 1883.
Statement of Police Constable Higgs. A man of good intelligence, and
believed to be entirely honest. Fully alive, as becomes his official
position, to White's indifferent reputation, but unable to account for
what he saw.—F.P.
On the night of Friday, March 2nd, I heard of the disturbances at Joe
White's house from his young brother, Tom. I went round to the house at
11.55 p.m., as near as I can judge, and found Joe White in the kitchen of
his house. There was one candle lighted in the room, and a good fire burn
ing, so that one could see things pretty clearly. The cupboard doors were
open, and White went and shut them, and then came and stood against
the chest of drawers. I stood near the outer door. No one else was in the
room at the time. White had hardly shut the cupboard doors when they
flew open, and a large glass jar came out past me, and pitched in the yard
outside, smashing itself. I didn't see the jar leave the cupboard, or fly
through the air ; it went too quick. But I am quite sure that it wasn't
thrown by White or any one else. White couldn't have done it without my
seeing him. The jar couldn't go in a straight line from the cupboard out of
the door ; but it certainly did go.
Then White asked me to come and see the things which had been smashed
in the inner room. He led the way and I followed. As I passed the chest
of drawers in the kitchen I noticed a tumbler standing on it. Just after I
passed I heard a crash, and looking round, I saw that the tumbler had fallen
on the ground in the direction of the fireplace, and was broken. T don't
know how it happened. There was no one else in the room.
I went into the inner room, and saw the bits of pots and things on the
floor, and then I came back with White into the kitchen. The girl Rose had
come into the kitchen during our absence. She was standing with her back
against the bin near the fire. There was a cup standing on the bin, rather
nearer the door. She said to me, " Cup'11 go soon ; it has been down three
times already." She then pushed it a little farther on the bin, and turned
round and stood talking to me by the fire. She had hardly done so, when
56 Frank Podmore.
the cup jumped up suddenly about four or five feet into the air, and then fell
on the floor and smashed itself. White was sitting on the other side of
the fire.
Then Mrs. White came in with Dr. Lloyd ; also Tom White and Solomon
Wass. After they had been in two or three minutes, something else
happened. Tom White and Wass were standing with their backs to the
fire, just in front of it. Eliza Rose and Dr. Lloyd were near them, with
their backs turned towards the bin, the Doctor nearer to the door. I stood
by the drawers, and Mrs. White was by me near the inner door. Then
suddenly a basin, which stood on the end of the bin near the door, got up
into the air, turning over and over as it went. It went up not very quickly,
not as quickly as if it had been thrown. When it reached the ceiling it fell
plump and smashed. I called Dr. Lloyd's attention to it, and we all saw it.
No one was near it, and I don't know how it happened. I stayed about ten
minutes more, but saw nothing else. I don't know what to make of it all.
I don't think White or the girl could possibly have done the things which
I saw.
(Signed) William Hiqgs, G.E. 30.
April 10th, 1883.
Statement of Arthur Currass, coal-miner ; a Methodist, and apparently
a very steady, respectable man. Believed that White did it, but
couldn't guess how it was done.—F.P.
I had to go out on the Saturday morning (March 3rd) to get some swill
for the pig, about 8.15 a.m. I passed by White's house, and hearing a
disturbance, I looked over the railings, and White said to me, "There's
something in the house that's breaking all afore it." I asked him what it were,
and he told me to come and see. I got over the railings, and I followed
White into his own house. He took me into the front place where the clock
was hanging over the bed's head, and was showing me a nest of drawers,
where his suit of clothes came out of the bottom drawer into the top one but
one. While I was looking at the drawer, and the broken pots there was
lying there, the clock by some means came from the wall, slantingwise about
seven feet, and dropped clear of the bed's foot on to the floor. It had been
fastened up on the wall, near the bed's head, and it fell between the bed's
foot and the door. I said, " What is that?" White said, " It's something
else smashed. " I turned round and saw that it was the clock. The nail still
remained in the wall. The girl Rose was coming out of the kitchen towards
the inner door, but had not got quite up to it. She seemed to be much
frightened. White said to me, "It doesn't matter a damn where that lass
goes, there's something smashes." The clock was taken right away into the
yard and placed on an empty cask, and there it stayed. White and I were
alone in the front room when the clock fell. White and I then went into
the back kitchen, and I remained about four feet from the outer door, with
my face towards the fireplace. I then saw a pot dog leap from the mantel
piece, and come within about five feet of the pantry door and break, passing
close to me. There was nothing attached to it, and there was no one near it.
I then began to move away, and just then Coulter appeared. This would be
between 8.30 and 8.45 a.m. Coulter had not come before whilst I was there,
Poltergeists. 57
and certainly had not been present when the clock and the dog were broken.
The clock was in the yard when he came, and I showed it him there.
John Street, Worksop, (Signed) Arthur Currass.
April 8th, 1883.
I have given the evidence in this instance at considerable,—-perhaps
tedious,—length, because, of all the cases which have been investigated
by representatives of the Society, it is, as it stands, one of the most
difficult to harmonise with any explanation by ordinary material causes.
The concordant testimony of so many honest and fairly intelligent
persons certainly produced, as will have been seen from my report, a
strong impression on my mind at the time. Nor do I see reason now
to question my original estimate of their intelligence and good faith.
If my verdict on the Worksop disturbances in 1896 differs from that
which I gave in 1883, it is because many things have happened since,
which have taught us to discount testimony in matters of this kind.
For it will be seen that the value of these reports, as testifying
to the operation of some supernormal agency, depends wholly upon two
assumptions, first, that the various witnesses—imperfectly educated
persons, not skilled in accurate observation of any kind—correctly
described what they saw : and, second, that after an interval of more
than five weeks, during which time the experiences had been discussed
and compared and gaped at by every village fireside, and in the
public press, they correctly remembered what they described. But
in the course of the 13 years which have passed since I wrote my
report, we have received some striking object-lessons demonstrating
the incapacity of the ordinary unskilled observer to detect trickery
or sleight-of-hand : and we have learnt to distrust the accuracy of
the unaided memory in recording feats of this kind, especially when,
performed under circumstances of considerable excitement.
And, indeed, if we scrutinise the account as it stands, we shall
find various discrepancies and contradictions in the evidence. (1) Thus,
according to White, Higgs and he went into the front room first, to
see the damage done there, and on their return to the kitchen a glass
jar flew out of the cupboard. But according to Higgs' version, it was
after seeing the glass jar fly through the air that White and he went
into the inner room. (2) White's account is that two or three
witnesses were present when the glass jar flew out ; Higgs says, " that
no one else was in the room at the time." (3) There seems to be a
doubt as to whether Rose entered the kitchen during Higgs' visit.
White does not mention her entrance at all. Higgs says they found her
in the kitchen on their return from the inner room. (4) Currass says
he was in the inner room on the morning of the 3rd when the clock fell.
White says that Currass was in the kitchen. (5) Again, White cannot
58 Frank Podmore.
remember where Rose was at the time of the incident ; whilst Currass
says that she was near the inner door. (6) White and Currass agree
that Coulter was not present when the American clock fell and was
smashed. Now Coulter, whom I saw, and who impressed me favourably
as an honest man, stated that he was present when the clock fell, and
also during the immediately succeeding disturbances in the kitchen.1
Such are some of the discrepancies which appear in the evidence
even as prepared and taken down from the lips of the witnesses by a
too sympathetic reporter. It is probable that more and more serious
discrepancies and contradictions would have been found if there had
been no speculation and consultation and comparison in the interval of
five weeks ; and if each witness at the end of that time had written
an independent account of the incidents.
It would be idle, in the circumstances and at this distance, to
speculate on the real cause of these disturbances. But it is to be noted
that Eliza Rose—the daughter of an imbecile mother—was present, by
all accounts, at most of the disturbances ; that they began shortly after
her entrance to the cottage and ceased with her departure ; and that she
was regarded by White himself as the prime cause of all that happened.
And if one apparently honest witness could describe himself as having
seen occurrences that he knew of only by hearsay ; if others could be
mistaken as to the sequence of important events, and the presence or
absence at given times of particular persons ; it is perhaps not
unreasonable to conjecture that the statements made by White and
others that some abnormal movements took place during Rose's
absence may have been incorrect, and that Rose herself, as the
instrument of mysterious agencies, or simply as a half-witted girl
gifted with abnormal cunning and love of mischief, may have been
directly responsible for all that took place.
In the next case we have clear evidence that some, at least, of the
phenomena which puzzled those who witnessed them, and gave rise to
suspicions of preternatural agency, were due simply to sleight-of-hand on
the part of a young uneducated village girl.
II.—The Wem Case.
The subjoined extract from a daily paper gives an account of some
mysterious disturbances at a Shropshire village, in November, 1883.
" A series of occurrences which have caused great excitement in the
neighbourhood of Leebotwood, and no small speculation and wonder in the
1 Coulter's evidence was omitted from the account given in the text, originally
printed in the Journal of the Society, as I did not at the time sufficiently realise its
importance, and came to the conclusion that the man was telling a deliberate
falsehood.
Poltergeists. 59
adjacent town of Shrewsbury, have just taken place. At a secluded farm
called ' The Woods, ' which is about a mile and a half from Toppington and
nine or ten from Shrewsbury, resides a farmer named Hampson, and about
four o'clock one afternoon, at the latter end of last week, the servants were
in the kitchen of the farmhouse, preparing tea. On the fire was a saucepan
in which were some eggs boiling, and this 'jumped,' as the girls declared,
off the fire, while the tea things were thrown from the table and smashed.
Some of the hot cinders were also thrown out of the grate, and set fire to
some clothes in a basket. So far, the explosion of some material in the grate
might have been sufficient to account for the occurrence ; but what is said to
have occurred subsequently will not bear such an explanation. On the table
was a paraffin lamp, with a globe, and the globe was ' lifted ' off the stand
and thrown across the room, the lamp itself being left on the table. A mat
under the lamp took fire, and the inmates of the house becoming alarmed,
then ran out for the neighbours. Among others who went to the house was
a Mr. Lea, an adjacent farmer, who states that when he approached the house
it seemed as if all the upstairs rooms were on fire, ' as there was such a light
in the windows. ' Mr. Hampson consequently went upstairs and made an
examination, but everything there was safe, and in the usual order. As
things were continuing to jump about the kitchen in a manner which was
altogether inexplicable, and many were getting damaged, Hampson decided
to remove everything that was in that apartment outside. He accordingly
took down a barometer from the wall, when something struck him on the
leg, and a loaf of bread which was on the table was thrown by some
invisible means and hit him on the back. A volume of ' Pilgrim's Progress '
was thrown or 'jumped ' through the window, and a large ornamental
sea-shell went through in a similar fashion. In the parlour a sewing machine
was thrown about and damaged, and has had to be sent to be repaired.
The nurse-girl was nursing the baby by the fire when some fire leapt from the
grate, and the child's hair was singed and its arms burnt. The girl was so
alarmed that she set off to a neighbour's, and on the way there her clothes
took fire, and had to be torn from her body. During the evening, while the
girl was at the neighbour's, a plate which she touched while having her
supper was apparently thrown on the floor, and the pieces were picked up
by some unseen agency, and put in the centre of the table. Other occur
rences are said to have taken place in the neighbour's house while the nurse-
girl was there, the whole lasting considerably over half an hour. As no one
could explain the cause of what they witnessed, the police were communicated
with, and made full inquiries from the inmates of the house and others, the
result being that they ordered the coal to be consumed in the open air,
believing it to contain some explosive substance, but it burnt quietly away.
Those who witnessed these occurrences tell a marvellously straightforward
story, and curiously enough none of them attributed it to any supernatural
cause, as might have been expected in a quiet country locality, but they say
it was ' something in the coal or in the air, ' while one or two fancy it was
some electrical phenomena."
Subsequently the same paper states their "Shrewsbury correspondent
telegraphs that he paid another visit to Weston Lullingfield yesterday, and
was informed that on Saturday and Sunday there were more extraordinary
60 Frank Podmore.
manifestations in connection with the girl Emma Davies. Police-constable
Taylor, of the Shropshire Constabulary, remained in the house until late on
Saturday. During the time he was there the fender moved from the fire
place into the middle of the room, and on being replaced, came forward a
second and third time. A cushion placed at the back of a cliair on which the
girl sat several times flew across the room, and all the stitches in her apron
came undone, followed later on by the buttons upon her dress being
wrenched off. Miss Maddox, the village schoolmistress, made a statement
to the correspondent to the effect that she called to see the girl, a former
pupil, on Saturday evening, and had not long been seated when she observed
both the chair and the girl rise from the floor. She took the girl on her lap
and sat in the chair herself, and immediately the girl's boots flew off, and
although replaced, the circumstance was twice repeated. On Sunday a box
in a bedroom was hurled across the room, and a number of cups and saucers
were smashed."
Report by Mh. F. S. Hughes.
December 3rd, 1883.
During the first and second weeks of November, 1883, accounts were to
be seen in the London and local papers of strange phenomena stated to have
taken place at Wood's Farm, near Wem, and other houses in the neighbour
hood.
These phenomena could not apparently be accounted for by ordinary
physical laws, and it seemed therefore very desirable that the stories
should be thoroughly sifted on behalf of the Society for Psychical
Research.
The scene of the first series of these phenomena was Wood's Farm,
and the time, the afternoon of Thursday, November 1st. A nurse-girl at
the farm, named Emma Davies, was connected in some way with the
disturbances by the occupiers, and she was accordingly dismissed and sent
to her home at a village called Weston Lullingfield, about five miles off.
Here the singular phenomena appeared shortly after her arrival, and the
affair began to attract very general attention.
On Friday, the 9th, the girl, who seems to have got into a very nervous
state, was taken to a branch establishment at Wem, of Dr. Corke, of
Baschurch, and kept in strict seclusion, at the same time being closely
watched by the housekeeper, Miss Turner.
On the following Thursday the Daily News and the Daily Telegraph both
had long reports, stating that the girl had confessed to having wrought all
these wonders by very ordinary sleight-of-hand.
As, however, these accounts did little to explain away the phenomena
which had taken place according to the previous newspaper reports, I was
asked by the Society for Psychical Research to go down to Shropshire to
investigate the evidence on which the original stories rested, and to see
whether they could really be accounted for satisfactorily by the girl's alleged
trickery.
On Saturday, the 17th November, I proceeded to Wem, and shortly after
my arrival called at the doctor's house, and saw Miss Turner, Dr. Mackey,
the assistant of Dr. Corke, not being at home.
Poltergeists. 61
Miss Turner is a lady of about 30 years of age, who appeared to be a
practical, shrewd person, not at all excitable, and she gave her evidence in a
very straightforward manner.
Calling again, later on in the evening, I saw Dr. Mackey, who is a young
Scotchman, of about 27 or 28, and who seemed nervously anxious not to give
any evidence about which he had any doubt.
I am quite confident that the girl was well treated while living with them,
and was subjected to no undue influence.
I made notes of the evidence they were able to give me on the subject,
and obtained their signatures to my account after they had heard it read to
them.
Briefly their account is :—That certain manifestations took place, similar
in character to those that preceded them, and for two or three days they
were quite unable to detect any fraud, though no manifestation ever took
place when the girl was not in such a position that she might have produced
them by ordinary trickery.
Thus, in the presence of Dr. Mackey and Miss Turner a piece of bread
jumped across the room, the girl not being actually seen to throw it. On
another occasion when Miss Turner had left the room, the girl suddenly
screamed, and when Miss T. returned, a pair of slippers were on the sofa
which had just before been seen on the hearthrug. Again, when Miss T. had
just turned her back to the girl, the usual scream was heard, and turning
round Miss T. saw a bucket in the air descending to the ground. A knife
on another occasion was thrown across the room, being in the air when Dr.
Corke's servant was entering the room.
On Tuesday morning, however, Miss Turner was in an upper room at
the back of the house, and the servant of the establishment and Emma
Davies were outside, Emma having her back to the house, and unaware that
she was observed. Miss Turner noticed that Emma Davies had a piece of
brick in her hand held behind her back. This she threw to a distance by a
turn of the wrist, and while doing so, screamed to attract the attention of
the servant, who, of course, turning round, saw the brick in the air, and
was very much frightened. Emma Davies, looking round, saw that she had
been seen by Miss Turner, and apparently imagining that she had been
found out, was very anxious to return home that night.
Miss Turner took no notice of the occurrence at the time, but the next
morning (Wednesday) she asked the girl if she had been playing tricks, and
the girl confessed that she had, and went through some of the performances
very skilfully, according to Miss Turner's account.
Later on in the day she repeated these in the presence of the doctor,
Miss Turner, and the two reporters from London, but Miss Turner said
nothing like so well.
Dr. Mackey further gave me an account of a conversation which he had
had with Emma Davies, chiefly with reference to some of the extraordinary
stories that had appeared in the papers.
One of these stories was that after the girl's return to her father's house,
she was in the habit of assisting her sister in household work. One day they
were putting clothes out on the hedge to dry, but those placed by Emma
Davies refused to remain on the hedge, and "jumped over into the road."
02 Frank Podmore.
With reference to this, the statement of Emma Davies, as reported by
Dr. Mackey, was as follows : "They put the clothes on the hedge, and then
returned to the house, nothing unusual having occurred. On going outside
again, the linen was found on the ground, two little boys being seen
running away. " She was quite confident that she did not see the things
going off the hedge.
Several of the other stories were similarly disposed of by her. Thus,
when the windows were broken at her father's cottage and the farm, there
were a lot of men and boys standing about outside.
The girl always denied that she had produced the various phenomena at
Wood's Farm and Weston Lullingfield, but Dr. Mackey thought that she
had been carefully primed not to "let on " about this.
Dr. Mackey added that the girl's physical and mental condition was
quite normal, so far as he could ascertain.
On the following morning I drove over to Wood's Farm, which is about
five or six miles distant from Wem, and there obtained the evidence of the
following witnesses :—
Mr. and Mrs. Hampson, their servant girl, Priscilla Evans, Mr. and
Mrs. Lea, of a neighbouring farm, and the waggoner at Wood's Farm,
Thomas Williams.
Mr. Hampson was a very intelligent man, who unfortunately was not at
home at the time of the occurrences, and only had evidence on some minor
details.
Mrs. Hampson was very diffuse in her account, and appeared rather
credulous. She looks about 30 years of age.
The girl, Priscilla Evans, is about 16, very voluble, but gave her
evidence in a very straightforward manner, giving me the impression that
she was telling me what she believed to be the truth. She had an excellent
character from Mr. and Mrs. Hampson ; and it is mere justice to her to
state that the charge of complicity with Emma Davies' trickery, brought
against her by the reporters of the Daily News and the Daily Telegraph—on
the ground of a supposed confession of the waggoner Williams, that he
had taught his fellow servants ' ' how to shift things about "—completely
broke down under my examination. The waggoner denies that he ever said,
or could have said, anything of the sort ; and his denial was entirely con
firmed by Mr. Belliss, the innkeeper, who drove the reporters over from
Wem, and himself suggested the questions put to the waggoner which led
to the reporters' mistake.
I could not regard Mr. and Mrs. Lea as good witnesses, since their firm
conviction of the devil's agency in the matter rendered them too much
indisposed to accept any ordinary explanation of any of the occurrences to
which they referred, and they did not bring forward any cases of manifesta
tions which took place when Emma Davies was undeniably, according to my
opinion, in such a position that she could not have produced them.
A rough drawing of the premises will show the relative position of the
parlour, kitchen, and dairy, and will be useful in estimating the value of the
evidence.
According to Mrs. Hampson's account, the family, with the exception of
Mr. Hampson, were occupying the parlour on Wednesday, October 31st,
Poltergeists. 63
.when suddenly coal was seen to be "alive" in various parts of the room,
apparently having flown out of the fire. Nothing unusual was observed that
day in addition to this, the fire having been removed to the kitchen, and
«oke instead of coal being employed.
The next day, about four p.m., the family were about to sit down to
tea, when the saucepan on the fire jumped off, and coal began to fly about.
A cup and saucer "went off" the table, by unseen agency, and they were
all so frightened that E.D. was sent off to Lea's farm for help. Mrs. H.
and Priscilla retreated to the dairy, whence, it will be seen on reference to
the map, they had a full view of the kitchen table. They both state that
they saw the crockery rise up off the table and fall to the ground. The
articles did not go off all at once, but one or two at a time. They are quite
certain that this happened while Emma Davies was absent, fetching Mrs.
Lea from the neighbouring farm.
H I H I
M
a Entrance to house.
B Dairy.
C, E, F Doorways.
D Cupboard.
I Staircase leading to upper rooms.
H H Windows.
K Kitchen Table.
Kitchen.
Parlour.
Place where Evans was standing when the
crockery came out of the cupboard.
emma Davies' position.
Indicates the direction in whichthe crockery
came out of the cupboard.
G
L
M
.N
■/ H I
Some of the crockery, on the return of Emma Davies and Mrs. Lea,
was placed on the table, but again went off. Mrs. Lea and Mrs. Hampson
then deemed it desirable to go for further assistance, the girls being left
behind. This ends Mrs. Hampson's evidence as regards the occurrences of
that evening at the farm.
Mrs. Hampson also stated that in the morning the baby was in its cradle
inside the parlour, where it had been placed to be out of range of the fire.
Mrs. Hampson and the girls were in the kitchen, and E. D. went in to see
after the baby, returning presently, screaming, saying that the baby was on
fire. On the various occasions (three or four) that the baby was on fire,
64 Frank Podmore.
E. D. was always the one to discover it ; and she always had time to cause
the fire, according to Mrs. Hampson. Once she was seen to be shaking the
child's pinafore, which was alight, although Mrs. H. had carefully warned
her always to "crush " fire out.
Further, on one occasion when E. D. was alone in the parlour, during
the manifestations, a noise as of a striking match was heard, and when Mrs.
H. entered the room, there was a distinct smell of brimstone, and a used
match was found at the baby's head.
Priscilla Evans added some information with regard to articles found
on fire, which was corroborated by Mr. Lea. Mrs. Hampson was not
present, I believe, when they were discovered.
It is well to note that E. D. was always the person to discover anything
on fire, and none of the witnesses could state positively that on any single
occasion was she in the company or in sight of any one when she made the
discovery.
One of the baby's caps, of a kind of woollen material, and a paper mat
were found in flames, the flames being very high and white, and the articles
apparently burning were very little singed when the flames were ex
tinguished. The cap and mat, which had both been exposed to the air for
some time, were shown to me, and I cut off a bit of the cap, which I dipped
in paraffin, which was largely used at the farm. Lighting it, she, Priscilla
E., declared it presented exactly the appearance of the former blaze, and
the bit of cap was of course little singed, when the flame was extinguished.
Mr. Hampson stated that the cap, when shown to him on his return, had a
greasy feel.
The most important piece of evidence that the girl Evans contributed is,
that when Mrs. H. and Mrs. Lea had left the house, the cupboard opposite the
dairy door was apparently locked by one of them, but afterwards flew open,
whereupon E. D., going to close it, became, as it were, rooted to the spot.
Priscilla tried to pull her away, but the girl shrieked and said she couldn't-
move. The cupboard was well stocked with crockery, and these things pro
ceeded to come out of the cupboard two or three at a time, generally in the
direction shown by the arrow in the diagram. The girls occupied the positions
indicated in the same diagram. Priscilla states that E. D. had her arms
folded all the time, and that she, Priscilla, watched her closely, and was
certain that she did not pull the things out. I should, however, point out
that it must have been nearly dark at the time.
With regard to the statement that E. D. was put up to these tricks by
the waggoner, there appears—as I have already said—no evidence for this,
and it is almost absurd to suppose a heavy rustic capable of giving lessons
in legerdemain.
Priscilla and E. D. appear to have been on rather bad terms, and none
of the people at the farm gave E. D. a good character.
Continuing my journey I arrived at Weston Lullingfield, a village
about five miles from Wood's Farm. I first called on Miss Maddox, a,
woman of about 40, who had been training the youth of Weston for
the last 12 years ("come December"). She is rather excitable, and a
woman who would, I think, be easily imposed upon. Her evidence is a
Poltergeists. 65
remarkable illustration of the manner in which the sensational newspaper
reports dwindle down into the commonplace.
She states that when she visited the girl, there were about 20 people
standing and sitting about the room, and the girl E. D. was wriggling about
on her chair in a state of great excitement. Miss M. is positive that the
chair rose off the ground about a foot, but this I imagine a clever child
could accomplish by a clever " kick off."
Miss M. then took the child on her lap, and the child's boots flew off,
but whether they were securely fastened on her feet, or downtrodden at
the heels, she cannot say.
The only further evidence that Miss M. had on the subject was that she
saw a table (up against a wooden partition) moving up and down rather
violently, without, she thought, any one being near. She added that the
partition seemed "bulged in," so that somebody might have been pushing
it on the other side of the partition.
She gave E. D. a good character.
I then visited the girl's home, but could not see the girl. The father,
however, came out and spoke to me, but he himself had seen nothing.
The rustics of the village, whom I afterwards interviewed, were nearly
all unable to sign their names, and their evidence is hardly worth recording.
One man, who was present with Police-constable Taylor when the fender
performed feats, states that Taylor was sitting on one side of the fire, and
E. D. on the other, but he could not say how the fender "came forward,"
whether parallel to itself, or only in such a manner that the girl might have
pushed it out with her foot.
All the other evidence at this place was of the same unsatisfactory
nature.
The next day I drove over with Mr. Maitland to try and see Emma
Davies, but she would not speak, and was taken upstairs. After the lapse
of an hour she reappeared, but we could not get anything out of her.
Summing up, I consider that there is abundant evidence of some
trickery on the part of the girl E. D. , at Wood's Farm ; but that some
portion of the phenomena cannot be referred to this cause if the statements
of Mrs. Hampson and Priscilla Evans as to what occurred in E. D.'s
absence, and the description given by Priscilla Evans of the crockery
coming out of the cupboard, can be at all relied on. Still, if the case were
an isolated one, the evidence is not of so satisfactory a nature as to justify
the assumption that phenomena unexplainable by trickery actually took
place ; but on the hypothesis that there are cases on record in which
trickery and genuine preternatural phenomena were combined, this case
might, with some degree of probability, be included amongst them.
Frank S. Hughes, B.A. (Cantab).
December 3rd, 1883.
As exception has been taken to Mr. Hughes' treatment of part of
the evidence in this case, on the ground that he was biassed against a
belief in supernormal agencies, it seems best to quote textually the two
passages specially referred to.
F
66 Frank Podmore.
(1) The signed statement by Miss Maddox gives the following
version of the " levitation " :—" There were about 20 people standing
and sitting about the room when Miss Maddox entered. The first
thing Miss Maddox saw was the chair on which the girl sat wriggling
about, and once rising a foot from the ground, the girl having no point
of contact with the ground at the time. She was writhing about, and
in a state of great nervous excitement."
(2) The following passage is from a statement signed by Henry and
James Lea :—" Emma Davies was with Mrs. Lea at the gate, a long
distance off, while the noises continued and things came flying out of the
window. Things came out after the place had been cleared of people."
It will be admitted, I think, that the conditions described by Miss
Maddox—some twenty people present in the room, and Emma Davies
twisting and wriggling on her chair in a condition of great nervous
excitement—were not specially favourable for observation. It may be
added that under more favourable circumstances a phenomenon of the
kind which Miss Maddox claims to have witnessed is not easy to
observe with accuracy. As regards the Leas' statement that Emma
Davies was at a distance from the house during the progress of some of
the disturbances, it will be remembered that in the Worksop case it was
shown that memory is apt to be treacherous on such matters as the
presence or absence of particular persons at particular times, and the
precise sequence of various events. A statement of this kind would no
doubt be deserving of consideration if it emanated from a first-rate
witness. But Mr. Hughes' estimate of the Leas as being indifferent
witnesses must be allowed to have weight.
Upon the whole, after a reperusal of the documents in the case, I
cannot find that Mr. Hughes has misrepresented the evidence in any
material particular. As regards the two incidents upon which he lays
special stress, it may be considered that if Emma Davies was able to
evade detection when closely watched for two or three days by
suspicious and educated witnesses, it seems not unlikely that she
might have succeeded in the easier task of eluding the vigilance of
Priscilla Evans, a young rustic already mystified and excited by the
marvellous manifestations which she had witnessed, and that the
crockery which flew out of the cupboard in the twilight was merely
propelled by the hand of Emma Davies. There remains the statement
of two witnesses who saw crockery fall off the table during Emma
Davies' absence. This statement, if accepted literally, is hard to
reconcile with the supposition of trickery. But we have no reason to
suppose that Priscilla Evans and Mrs. Hampson were better observers
than some of the persons who sat at stances with Mr. Eglinton, or
were able to remember and describe what they saw with greater
accuracy than the witnesses of Mr. Davey's sleight-of-hand.
Poltergeists. 67
It should be added that though Emma Davies was regarded by the
doctor who examined her as being quite normal, Mr. Hughes, in the
course of his enquiries, found some evidence of unusual precocity
on her part. Moreover, according to her mother's statement, while she
had been a healthy child before the outbreak of the disturbances, she
afterwards fell into ill-health and became subject to fits. It should be
added that Miss Maddox in her signed account states that, during
some of the disturbances at which she was present, Emma Davies
cried out that an old woman was at her, and would not let her breathe,
and called to her mother to relieve her.
III.—The Arundel Case.
The next account, by Major (now Lieutenant-Colonel) Taylor, deals
with disturbances which took place in February, 1884.
.Report on the Alleged Manifestations at Arundel, Sussex. By
■ Major G. L. Le M. Taylor, Royal Military College, Famborough
Station, Hants.
Accompanied by Major King, R.M.A., I arrived at Arundel on Saturday,
February 22nd, to enquire into the circumstances attending the alleged
manifestations in connection with the girl Clark.
We first visited Mr. Hubbert, F.R.C.S., the medical man who had been
called in to see the girl when the affair commenced ; he very kindly told us
what took place, his statement being in effect as follows :—
He was called in about 10.30 on the night of February 8th, to see the
girl Clark, who was said to be "bewitched" ; he found the household in
great consternation, and persuaded that a neighbour had " bewitched " her.
He asked what the symptoms were, and was told that "scratchings " took
place "all about the bed" on which the girl was, that she did not make
them, and that they were supernatural ; he was told to listen, and shortly
he heard a noise in the bedroom above, as if made by scratching the
mattress with the nails of the hand. On going upstairs he found the girl
in bed, and asked her " How she did it 1 " or " Why she did it 'I " but she
said she had nothing to do with it. While he was in the room nothing took
place, but he was told that if he left the room the noise would probably
recommence. He did so, and again the scratchings were heard. He went
back into the room with the girl alone, and having taken hold of her hands
with one of his, he scratched the mattress with the other. The noise was
at once recognised by the family outside the door as the same previously
heard. The doctor now tied the girl's hands in such a way as to prevent
the use of the nails, and left the room. The noise was soon repeated, but
was now more like rubbing than scratching. In fact, the sound seemed
muffled. Again he tied the girl's hands more securely, and balanced a
woollen cuff on them, outside the bed clothes. Now no noise was heard for
some time, and on re-entering the room the cuff was found unmoved. The
doctor was satisfied that the noises were made by the girl herself. He then
left and has had nothing more to do with the affair.
F 2
68 Frank Podmore.
We next went to Clark's house, and found that, unfortunately, the girl's
father was away, and the girl herself had been sent to Brighton. We saw,
however, the girl's mother and her father's mother.
The mother is a large, flabby, sallow woman of about 40, with a narrow
forehead and rather oblique eye-brows. She did not seem in good health,
and was certainly nervous and frightened at the whole affair. Mr. Hubbert
described her as hysterical. The grandmother is an old woman, who was not
at all frightened at what had taken place, but rather liked talking about it.
The impression we received as to the evidence of these women was that
they were perfectly honest witnesses, believing everything they told us ;
the mother being unwilling to speak of them at all, and particularly careful
not to speak to anything which had not come within her own knowledge.
The grandmother, though equally honest, had evidently told the story so
often that she described things which, on her own showing, she could not
have seen.
We gathered that the "manifestations" began on Friday evening,
February 8th, and the girl was sent away on Tuesday or Wednesday, the
19th or 20th, and that nothing took place between Tuesday, the 12th, and
Monday, the 18th, on which day the girl is said to have seen an apparition,
which determined her people to send her to Brighton. Our two witnesses
were able to speak directly to only some of the alleged manifestations, the
evidence for the others resting on the testimony of the girl, her father, the
girl's maternal grandmother, and a neighbour. The manifestations appear
to have begun spontaneously ; but afterwards to have been in a great
measure sought by the father to test their reality. We ascertained pretty
well in what order the different things happened, but could not quite make
it clear on which days they occurred.
I will give first the substance of the statements of the two women we
saw, as far as they speak from their own knowledge ; and then the re
mainder of the story as gathered from the grandmother, but the direct
evidence for which could not be obtained.
The mother states that the girl is 13, but looks older ; is a good, quiet
girl, about whose honesty in the present matter she has no doubt. (Major
King saw the girl's photograph ; it was of a girl with a sharp and rather
shrewd face.) That on Friday night, a minute or two after getting into bed
with her two girls (her husband being away at work), she heard a scratching
noise on the mattress of the bed. She asked the girls if they were making
it. They said, "No," and seemed frightened. She hold the girl's hands,
and yet the noise continued. She got out of bed, thinking it might be rats,
lit a candle, searched the room, and re-made the bed. When they went to
bed again the noise recommenced. She then went into the back room, but
the noise continued on the other bed. She also states that the first bed
heaved up, and that, when they went into the second room, the bed and
everything in the room shook. She got so frightened that she sent for the
doctor.
Though the mother sat by and acquiesced in all her mother-in-law sub
sequently related, she said nothing more than the above came under her
special knowledge, except the evident distress of her daughter on other
occasions.
Poltergeists. 69
The grandmother corroborated what the mother stated about the girl's
goodness and honesty, and proceeded to say that when the father returned
on Saturday night (?) some attempts were made at an investigation, in the
course of which the girl was sent upstairs into the room in which the noises
were first observed, " to see what would happen." She was followed by her
two grandmothers (the maternal grandmother, who lived in another village,
having been sent for previously). The girl stood at A (see plan), in full
view of the old women, who were at the head of the stairs, when in a
minute three articles fell to the ground at the other end of the room at B
and C, a clock from off the chest of drawers, and two ornaments from the
chimney-piece, all at the same time. The girl rushed back to the stairs,
and the two old women, going into the room, found the things on the floor,
but not broken ; there was a mat or carpet where they fell. They replaced
the things, the clock on its back far back on the drawers. They again fell
under similar circumstances (?) ; the girl described them to have turned over
and over till they reached the floor. One of the things that fell was a small
bell-shaped shade over a match stand.
After the above incident (on Sunday, I think), the girl was sent to her
grandmother's house, not far off, "to see if anything would happen in a
new place." The grandmother says that, when there and in view, things
jumped up and fell down which were out of the girl's reach. I could not
get a clear statement about it, but got the old woman to acknowledge that
she saw nothing fall.
Later, again, the grandmother declares that when going upstairs in her
son's house, with the girl in front of her, a dark cloud seemed to meet
them and obscure the light of the candle till she lost sight of the child,
PLAN OF cLaRK'S HOUSe.—1st FLOOr PLaN.
Frank Podmore.
PLaN OF cLaRK'S HOUSE.—GROUND PLaN.
Poltergeists. 71
who shrank back to her, and said she felt it all over her ; the cloud soon
passed away.
As for the rest of the story, it appears that the father sent the girl into
the scullery, and watched through the door a tray of potatoes and an iron
pot fall ; they were, however, scarcely beyond the girl's reach. This
experiment appears to have been repeated, for on another occasion a neigh
bour, looking through the door, said he saw a shadowy hand stretched out
from the girl to the things to upset them. On another occasion the girl,
having been sent across the road to the baker's, returned with the story that
immediately she entered the shop two chairs fell over of themselves, but »
no one else saw them fall.
Again, the girl is said to have been alone with her maternal grand
mother (whom we did not see) in the lower front room, and being told to
get some coal, the child opened the door at D. At this moment the grand
mother and girl heard three violent knocks on table E. The girl got
frightened, and the grandmother went with her to get the coal from under
the stairs. Again three knocks were heard on the stairs.
After this it seems the girl never left her mother's side for a week,
and nothing took place. At the end of that time her mother, thinking
that perhaps it was all over, sent the girl upstairs to get a dress from the
back bedroom. On entering the room the child screamed, and on her
return stated to her mother that she had seen at F a figure in a white dress,
with fingers very white and long, bald head, and white eyes and feet, which,
when she screamed, receded and disappeared into the wall behind it.
The order in which the manifestations are said to have followed one
another is as follows :—
Order or Manifestations. Observed By.
1. Scratchings Mother, Sister, and Doctor
2. Ditto Mother, Sister, and Paternal Grandmother
3. Things falling Paternal Grandmother and Maternal Grandmother
4. Ditto, Ditto Paternal Grandmother
5. Ditto, ditto Father and Neighbour
6. Knocks Maternal Grandmother
7. Darkening of candle Paternal Grandmother
8. Apparition Child
Observations.
Nos. 1 and 2.—The doctor being quite unaffected by any feeling of
excitement or fear, which was not the case with the family, was the best
judge of the cause of these manifestations. He was convinced that they
were caused by the child herself.
Nos. 3 and 4. —If the evidence of the paternal grandmother could be
relied on, these could not, in my opinion, be accounted for by any physical
cause, as the clock and ornaments fell simultaneously and were 9ft. from
the girl, who, having been sent by her father without warning (as I under
stood) to the room above stairs, had no opportunity of making any arrange
ments for trickery.
78 Frank Podmore.
No. 5.—In these manifestations the girl might not have been more than
4ft. from the things which fell, and the hole in the door (as tested by me) is
so small that little can be seen through it, and that little in a shadowy way.
No. 6.—The girl standing where she did when the knocks "on the-
table " were heard, was within reach of the door of the coal-hole, knocks-
on which (as ascertained by Major King) sounded hollow, as if on a table,
and from their sound it would not be possible to tell whence they came.
When immediately afterwards, the girl was in the coal-hole, the knocks
on the stairs sounded from a place within her reach.
No. 7.—The stairs are so narrow that the girl must have been in front
of her grandmother, and above her ; if she had shaded the candle with her
hand it might not have been observed by the old woman, and the stated
effect might have been easily produced on the half-frightened grandmother.
No. 8.—The fright of the girl on seeing the appearance must have been
well feigned to deceive her mother, but the girl herself was in such a con
dition of nervousness as to make it most probable that she was frightened
at a shadow only.
Conclusions.
1.—The scratchings were perhaps done by the child at first by accident,
and persisted in, when the effect was seen, for fun.
2.—That the grandmother possibly did not actually keep the girl in
sight when the things fell in the bedroom ; having perhaps turned round to
speak to the mother at the bottom of the stairs.
3.—That the knocks were most likely produced by the child, who at this
time was getting rather frightened at her own " manifestations."
4.—That the father and Mr. M., the neighbour, could not have watched
the girl through the scullery door, and that Mr. M., from his reference to
a spirit-hand, suggested a spiritual appearance to the girl.
5.—The darkening of the candle might have been done by the child
accidentally, and frightened her as well as her grandmother.
6.—That the " spirit " was purely subjective.
7.—That on the whole it is most likely that the affair was begun in fun,
continued in fraud, and closed in fright.
In this case also it will be seen that one of the incidents, as
described, was inexplicable by trickery. But it is to be noted that
none of the witnesses appear to have alleged that they actually saw
objects in the act of falling under circumstances which would have
made trickery out of the question. Moreover, the whole matter had
been the theme of general discussion before Colonel Taylor's visit ; and
one at least of the principal witnesses described things which, on her
own showing, she could not have seen. There seems to have been some
exaggeration also in the account given by the father of the girl of what
he saw through the scullery door. In the alleged occurrence of an
apparition seen by the child alone, as well as in other points, the case
presents a marked resemblance to the disturbances at Wem. The
Poltergeists. 73
"shadowy hand" alleged to have been seen by the neighbour stretching
out from the girl recalls some of the descriptions given of seances with
Eusapia and other " physical mediums." On the whole, having regard
to the doctor's evidence, to the nature of the occurrences reported, and
to the character of the principal witnesses, I am disposed to agree with
the two reporters that the evidence for abnormal agency of any kind
in the case is hardly worth consideration.
IV.—The Bramfoed Disturbances.
In November and December, 1887, an account appeared in the
East Anglian Daily Times of disturbances in a cottage at Bramford,
near Ipswich. The cottage was inhabited by Mrs. Parker, a widow,
Thomas Farrington, a grown-up son, by a first marriage, and two other
children, Ellen Parker (11) and Cornelius Parker (10), and an old
bedridden woman, Mrs. Pelgate. The phenomena consisted of the
throwing of stones and dirt outside the house ; raps, noises, and
the movement of various articles of furniture inside the house.
It was alleged, for instance, that the little girl would be lifted bodily
in the air ; kettles, a table and sofa would be moved about ; knives
would fly out of the cupboard and stick in Ellen's hair, &c., &c.
Finally, the girl went for a few days to Stowmarket on a visit to a
married sister of her mother's, Mrs. Jeffery. What then ensued is
thus described by Mr. Jeffery in a letter to the East Anglian Daily
Times, dated December 14th, 1887.
"The child came to my house on Monday, November 26th, in the evening.
Nothing happened till the Wednesday night following, when raps came at my
front door. No one was there. Closing the front door as soon as I got in,
raps came inside the house till the child went to bed, sleeping with her
grandmother. As the child went upstairs, raps followed her, and went on
in the room. That was all that happened that night.
"The next night, in the room where she sat, at about 7 o'clock, I was
annoyed by hearing raps again in the room where the child, my wife, and
the child's grandmother were sitting. No one else was there. This went on
till the child and her grandmother went to bed ; raps followed them both
up the stairs. I then heard a tremendous noise. Mrs. Jeffery went upstairs,
saw things moving about, and called me. I went up and found them in a
terrible fright. I got them both downstairs for an hour, when nothing
happened but a few raps, coming from where I did not know.
"They went to bed again about 11. My wife went up, and as soon as the
child and her grandmother were in bed, I went up. There was no one in the
room then but my wife, myself, and those in bed. As soon as I went in, the
washstand fell on to me, no one being near it but myself ; next I saw a
clothes chest, weighing at least seven stones with the contents, jumping
about the floor. I put it in its place several times. Then the chairs and all
the moveables in the room seemed alive ; even the brass knob screwed on the
74 Frank Podmore.
bedpost was taken off and dashed across the room. All this time the child
was in bed, and a bright light in the room. These disturbances went on till
about 12 o'clock that night, when they ceased.
"This is what I witnessed myself, but I must mention that in my absence,
my wife, my two sons, and my neighbour (Mrs. Read) saw very much the
same things as I did. But I leave them to speak for themselves, confining
myself to what I saw and heard myself. I have been a resident of Stow-
market 32 years, and I am sure my friends will credit me as a truthful man
to the best of my ability. —I am, &c. , Robert Jeffery.
In the early part of January, 1888, a member of the Society visited
Bramford and Stowmarket to investigate the matter on the spot. He
saw Mrs. Parker and was favourably impressed both as regards her
honesty and her intelligence. He found out, however, that the
phenomena occurred only in the presence of the little girl, Ellen ; and
that the evidence for the disturbances at Bramford rested almost
exclusively on her mother's testimony.
Mrs. Parker's statements were of a very surprising kind ; but he
was unable to discover any motive for fraud or connivance on her part.
She had, indeed, been a pecuniary loser, since the guardians had, in
consequence of the disturbances, stopped an allowance for outdoor
relief; and she, as a general rule, refused to take money from the
newspaper reporters and others who came to see her.
Our representative ascertained from the constable who had been
set to watch the house at the beginning of the disturbances, that he
had seen the child producing noises and tapping the window with her
hand, when she believed herself to be unobserved. Also that, some
days later, the little boy, Cornelius, had confessed to him that he had
produced some of the movements by trickery. The schoolmaster, who
was present, gave the following account of the interview between
Cornelius and the policeman. The latter asked the boy whether he
caused the noises, &c , purposely. The boy was silent for some time,
and at last said " Yes." On being asked who first put him up to it,
the boy said " Mrs. Felgate,"—an exceedingly improbable statement
on the face of it. No threats were used to induce the boy to confess.
In conversation with our representative the boy denied that he ever
made such a confession.
The following is our representative's account of his interview with
another witness :—
Mr. Burrows is a bird fancier and has been heretofore a ghost-hunter.
He is a shrewd man. He informed me that he went to the cottage one
Sunday, and being slightly acquainted with Thomas Farrington obtained
admittance with three friends. It was getting dark when they entered, and
they all pretended to be very credulous upon the subject. The boy and his
mother were sitting on the couch, and the boy had his arm behind his
Poltergeists. 75
mother, with the result that first a glove and then a baby's bib were thrown
out. Mr. B. saw the boy working his arm. The girl was under the table,
where she could be seen however by Mr. B. He saw her kick her leg up, so
as to send her boot across the room. At the same time she screamed out
" They've taken my boot." He then saw the boy stoop down at the fire
place. He placed his own head low down over his knees, and presently saw
the boy dart his arm backwards, with the result that the poker flew across
the floor. He kept his eye on the boy, in the confusion, and saw him seize
the kettle, and roll that along the floor. The boy also when sitting beside
his mother on the sofa, took off his coat, and placed it under him, to see if
the spirits would drag it out. While doing so and after, he managed to
wriggle the cushion upon which he sat from beneath him, and threw that
across the room, striking the cat.
Mr. Burrows then left with some ironical compliments. What degree of
inference instead of actual sight there may be in Mr. B. 's evidence, I cannot
say. He said repeatedly that he saw these acts of deception. His prejudices
or convictions were evidently strong. I think it must be believed that he
saw some at least of the acts of deception.
Our representative then proceeded to Stowmarket. Of Mr. Jeffery
he wrote, " Simplicity and honesty are manifestly his characteristics."
The grandmother was described by Mr. Jeffery himself " as not know
ing quite what she said." The report continues :—
The washstand fell upon Mr. Jeffery as he entered the room. The door
opens outward, the washstand therefore might be placed overlapping the
door, and on Mr. Jeffery's entering, his leg might strike it, for it does not
rise much higher than a man's knee, and so he might think it fell against him,
under the influence of his prevailing impressions.
The chest which he saw jumping about the floor, and which he put in its
place several times, he saw really jump only once and then a few inches,
though it jumped several times when he was out of the room. This chest,
which is a box, stood about 1£ feet from the side of the low bed, on which
the child was lying, and stands on a support which raises it about two inches
from the ground thus :
By stretching out an arm quickly and getting purchase underneath the
box, the child could lug it from its place. Now upon the occasion that Mr.
Jeffery saw the chest move, he had just put it back in its place, and was
walking away from it, with his back to it, and it was when he turned the
corner of the bed that he saw it move. He must have seen it out of the
right corner of his right eye. The child may have given the box a tug, and
76 Frank Podmore.
got its arm in bed again, before the man could turn round. He may then
have perceived that the box had moved, and this may have become confused
in his mind with seeing it move.
Mr. Jeffery was not in the room when the brass knob was thrown.
He says that he stood at the door and watched the child for 20 minutes.
During that time only two things occurred ; one was that a piece of an old
bedstead leaning against the wall to his right jumped once two inches high.
This phenomenon again, as he was watching the child to the left, he would see
out of the right corner of the right eye. Expectation moreover could easily
cause a piece of furniture to appear to jump two inches. I have seen the
phenomenon myself. But Mr. Jeffery says he also heard it thump down
again. It is possible he heard a knock which he localised to his right, and
that at the same moment the old bedstead appeared to jump so as to explain
the knock.
The second incident that occurred was that the table to his left, against
the wall upon the the side of the bed nearest to him, and therefore with the
old lady between the table and the girl, moved. He saw it move with his
own eyes. It moved a foot, so that the corner of the table farthest from the
girl moved through the arc of a circle towards her.
No one was near the table, except the grandmother on that side of the
bed. As Mr. Jeffery firmly adhered to his statement of the time and circum
stances under which this movement took place, excluding all action by the
grandmother, there is only one explanation of the statement, apart from
acceptance, namely that Mr. Jeffery, having shown so much confusion of
statement, may here be making a confused statement which has become
petrified into a mistaken belief.
Mrs. Bead, who seemed an intelligent woman, though summoned to the
scene, saw nothing, except the washstand fall upon Mr. Jeffery. She heard
knocks, however, and seemed to believe that something very wonderful had
taken place.
I did not see the boys.
The report concludes as follows :—
There is no evidence of genuineness, there is evidence of fraud.
The explanation of the occurrences which commends itself to me is as
follows :—
The children one day varied their amusement of throwing things at one
another, by throwing at the old lady, Mrs. Felgate. They would then deny
having thrown, and Mrs. Felgate may have said something like "spirits
must have done it then." They would take up this idea, and being in danger
of thrashing for throwing stones in the yard, which struck the door, or dirt,
which hit the windows, they would deny doing it and say it was done by the
spirits, and that they saw the stones rise from the ground, and so on from
lie to lie ; till they found themselves in the midst of a popular excitement,
and continued their tricks from very fear. "To return were tedious as go
o'er. " The fact that the mother and young Farrington went to the policeman
and tried to get him to enquire into it, seems to show that they were deceived
by the children and that they were not parties to a fraud. Mrs. Parker's
statement can hardly upon the present hypothesis be an accurate version of
Poltergeists. 77
the facts. But possibly she would be found to romance as much upon any
other topic. She and her son both seem to me respectable, possessed of an
honest pride. Their refusing money may be from the motive that their
reputation is dear to them, and they wish to prove to their fellow villagers
that they are not the sort of people they take them for. I call the son
respectable, because he supports his mother, has been married once and is
going to marry again. And there is nothing against the woman, except the
prejudices of the neighbourhood. The efiect which the child has produced
upon the mind of Jeffrey, she might produce upon her own mother and
brother. And if they found her out once or twice, that would make little
difference in their belief.
It remains to add that, according to the girl's own statement—
.corroborated, so far as such a statement could be corroborated, by her
mother—Ellen during the progress of the disturbances suffered from
transient attacks of blindness (possibly of a hysterical nature). The
■child further said that in the course of these attacks she could see a
sailor standing over her with a chain in his hands to bind her and
carry her off. She would also see a white woman beckoning and hear
her singing. The boy, Cornelius, also stated that he had seen an
apparition, which did not, however, resemble either of the figures
alleged to have been seen by his sister.
V.—The Waterford Case.
In January, 1892, the Irish papers contained accounts of disturb
ances in a haunted house at Waterford. Appended is an extract from
& Dublin paper :—
"Curious Occurrence at Waterford.
" An occurrence of a curious nature, and one which is the all-absorbing
topic of city gossip, is reported from a portion of Ballybricken known as
Costelloe's-lane. It appears that some three weeks ago a pensioner of the
Royal Irish Constabulary, named K., with his family took up his residence
there, prior to coming to Waterford. He held the position of caretaker on
an evicted farm in the Passage East district. While in occupation he
reported to Sergeant Murphy, of Passage East, that he and his family
were disturbed at night by unearthly sounds. The sergeant, who is no
believer in ghosts, commanded an escort party to the house, the approaches
to which were taken possession of, and one of the men stationed in the
interior. While there the sergeant and his men heard unmistakably
unearthly sounds. The man on duty inside saw furniture dashed about
by some invisible agency. Sergeant Murphy reported the result of his
experience to his superior officer in Waterford, and Head-Constable Waters
was sent out to investigate the allegation that ghosts were haunting K.'s
house ; but despite all entreaties, the caretaker and his family left in a
state of terror, turning up, as has been stated, at Costelloe's-lane, in the
city, where he seems to have lived in peace until Saturday night last,
when he created quite a panic by raising the alarm that the ghosts who had
78 Frank Podmore.
hunted him from his Passage East home had tracked him there. Some of
his neighbours entered the house, and found his family in a state of the
greatest possible nervous excitement. They saw articles of furniture thrown
about, crockery smashed, and heard a voice quite audibly. They fled out of
the house in terror and raised the alarm, with the result that the police
authorities visited the house yesterday, and again to-day, as did hundreds
of citizens, including several Roman Catholic clergymen. All the approaches
to the house have to-day been closely guarded, but unearthly voices are still
heard. At the time of telegraphing, some hundreds of people are in the
vicinity waiting for the latest news regarding the action of the ghosts in
K.'s house."
On February 7th, 1892, Mr. J. W. Hayes, an Honorary Associate
of the Society for Psychical Research, went to Waterfowl to investi
gate the matter. K. and his family had left Waterford some days,
before his arrival, but Mr. Hayes saw the police and several of the
neighbours. K., it appears, was an emergency caretaker, i.e., a care
taker on " evicted " farms ; an occupation always unpopular and
occasionally hazardous. He is said to have been a nervous man, and
one who would be readily imposed upon. His occupation appears to-
have been distasteful to his wife. The appended statements contain,
the evidence of the three chief witnesses interviewed by Mr. Hayes.
Evidence of Head Constable Elders. Taken February 1st, 1892, in the
day-room at Lady-lane, Station, Waterford.
When Peter K. reported to Sergeant Murphy, of Passage East, that he
was " tormented with supernatural noises," the sergeant and one man (not an
"escort party") went and examined the place inside and outside, and.
satisfied themselves that there were no strangers about. This house had two
bedrooms at the left of the entrance door, opening into one another, and
divided by a partition wall, in which partition was a permanently closed door
(marked F), and, a little lower down, another door which opened and shut
(marked E). The other apartments in the house were a kitchen (just as you
go in), and a room at the right used as a chicken house. On one occasion
when Sergeant Murphy visited the house, K.'s boy Johnny complained of
being sick, and retired to bed at three in the afternoon. The bed he occupied
was in bedroom B, and his bed ran alongside the partition, the foot of the
bed being only a foot or so from the closed door F. Sergeant Murphy
stationed himself in the kitchen, and after a while several loud knocks (as if
made with a stick) were heard proceeding from the room where the boy lay.
The sergeant immediately went in and found the boy lying quietly in the
bed, but not a bit frightened. The young fellow, when questioned, said the
knocks came on the closed door, but no further knocking took place while;
the sergeant was in the room, neither did the sergeant search the bed to see
whether the boy produced the knocks with a stick or not. K.—it is generally
supposed, at the request of his wife—threw up this situation as caretaker,,
and came with his family into Waterford, taking up his residence at
Costelloe's-lane. On Sunday, January 24th, 1892, he called at the police-
station in Waterford, and reported that the ghost was again at work, that
Poltergeists.
Entrance
Door
Fireplace
8 S 5
5 M
MR. K.'S RESIDENCE IN c.
so Frank Podmore.
after going to bed on Saturday night, he heard knocks at the door, and
getting up, placed himself behind the door, until his son should get up
to take his place. On opening the door they found no one. He then
went out to the yard, and fancied he saw three dark objects run over the
wall, and when he came in he heard a voice under one of the beds
saying, "This is not the ghost you heard in Carrigleigh ; I'll follow you
wherever you go, in spite of the police." The Waterford police called at
his house at 1 o'clock on Sunday morning, January 24th, and saw one
pane of glass broken, but no sound was produced while they were on the
premises. They went away, but at 3 o'clock on the same day K. reported
that at 3 o'clock on Sunday morning the ledges were burst off the back door
of the kitchen, and the door forced open. This door was merely fastened
with a small bolt, which shot into an auger hole close to the edge of the door
post. Now the side of the auger hole showed no sign of having been
burst either in or out. The ledges which were stated to have been knocked
off by the ghost bore marks of violence, as if they had been repeatedly and
heavily struck with a blunt instrument, or were hammered off. At 4 o'clock
K. stated that another pane of glass was broken. The police examined the
bits of glass, which fell outside in all cases, and found traces of reddish
paint on some of them, as if a piece of painted timber had been used to
break the glass out. The chairs in the room were ordinary wooden ones
painted a reddish colour. Some broken delph and jam pots and bottles
were spread around the floor, and pointed out as having been thrown there
by supernatual agency. A hatchet was found in the house, (and is still to
the good), the head of which had distinct reddish paint marks, just as if it
had been used to crush painted timber. Nothing supernatural occurred
while the police watched. In the house in Costelloe's-lane, Johnny K.
slept in a room to the left of the hall-door. The room had a window, and in
this window the glass was broken outwards. Here also the voice was said to
be heard.
Evidence of Mrs. P. Dea, of Costelloe's-lane, Waterford. Taken
February 2nd, 1892.
On Sunday week I was in K. 's house along with a young man, having gone
in to see the ghost act. I distinctly saw Johnny K. roll a ball or something
across the floor and it rolled in under a table. I then saw him, when he
thought I was not minding him, hurl a jam pot on to the floor. Afterwards
I saw him sneak round to the bellows and contrive to fling it on the floor.
The father was in the room when J. flung the bellows and said "Johnny,
was it you threw that ? " Johnny said "No, Sir." " But you did throw it,"
said Mrs. Dea. "I didn't," said Johnny laughing. Mrs. D. states that she
is "prepared to swear" that she saw the boy throw these things and other
things too. She states that Mrs. K. did not seem the least bit alarmed at
the action of the " ghosts."
Evidence of Patrick Dea. Taken February 2nd, quite independently of
what his wife stated.
I was at K.'s house at a quarter past 11 on Sunday night week. Two
more fellows were with me ; we went in to watch the ghosts. Peter K. was in
Poltergeists. SI
bed, but Johnny was at the fire. We all engaged in conversation, but at the
same time I kept my eye on the boy, although I kept my head down. [It
should be remarked that Dea has crooked eyes, so that in reality it would be
very hard to tell when he was looking straight at a person.] I saw Johnny
stand up from where he was leaning on the table or box and gradually shove a
tin gallon over to himself. Originally it was at the far end of the box or table.
He then a few moments after put his two hands to the back of his head as if
he was tired and wanted to rest his head against them. Then leaning
backwards he took up the gallon and jerked it over his head and it fell on
the middle of the floor. I thereupon said to the young men with me, "Oh,
come on home, lads, if that's the sort of ghosts are around. " After that the
father got up when he heard us going and asked me to stay with Johnny to
protect him. I refused and went away disgusted. I am prepared to swear
to these matters and think the boy should have been prosecuted.
Thus it would appear that no phenomena took place at any time
while the police were on the spot, except that on one occasion at C.
knocks occurred as if made with a stick on a door in the next room
out of sight of the policeman and close to Johnny. There seems to be
no evidence that phenomena ever occurred beyond the reach or the
power of Johnny, and whatever agency produced the phenomena used
very human means. Thus the cross pieces appear to have been
knocked off the door with a hatchet, and a piece of painted wood
appears to have been used to break the windows.
It seems that the neighbours were generally agreed that though
the father, a timid and credulous person, was much alarmed, and
believed the disturbances to be due to the spirit of a dead man named
H., Johnny and his mother were not in the least nervous or frightened
by the proceedings of the " ghost." Finally, we may add that the
effect of the disturbances was to induce the father to give up his
caretaking jobs, leave the neighbourhood, and remove with his family
to—as it is believed—the part of the country where his wife's
relations lived.
Case VI.
The occurrences described in the next case took place at a post
office in a town near London. The witnesses were examined by
Lieutenant-Colonel Taylor, who from notes of the conversation with
them drew up statements, which were afterwards corrected and signed
by the persons concerned. The names and initials given are fictitious.
Statement of Miss K.
February 13th, 1895.
The mysterious manifestations about which you are interested began
shortly before my mother's death on June 30th, 1893, when only she and my
niece, Ellen P. , who is now about 16 years old, were living in the house with
me. We had been in residence about a year and a half when we began to
G
82 Frank Podmore.
observe that small things were unaccountably moved, flower vases upset, etc.,
and for some time we thought it must be the cat (a foreign cat which came
about the place. )
One Sunday morning I sent my niece off to church, locking the outside
door after her ; shortly afterwards I followed her, my mother locking the
door after me. On my return my mother reported that shortly after I left
she went to the kitchen and found things displaced ; some chops which were
for dinner and some milk, both of which had previously been placed in the
cupboard and its door shut, were found upon the kitchen floor. She replaced
the chops and prepared for dinner by placing some potatoes in a bowl of
water to soak. She went upstairs and on her return in a few minutes found
the bowl on the floor with the potatoes under it. The window (a cottage
window) was open and I put the whole thing down to cats again.
Shortly after my mother's death an elderly friend and a little boy came
to stay with ine ; after their arrival annoyances began again. Things were
moved and temporarily lost, being sometimes found on the dust heap in the
yard, a bonnet and some other things put into water, hats were wetted and
spoiled. At this time things became serious, for the Postal Orders in the
office were interfered with ; one day Ellen was in the office when a person
came in for a P. O. for 15s. ; she called out to me ' ' Auntie, where are the
15s. P. O.'s ? I can't find them." I said they were on the counter. They
were there a few minutes before, but had now disappeared. I was greatly
frightened.
Fortunately, soon after, while looking for them, my eye caught sight of
part of one sticking out of the door of a cupboard in the office and in this
we found them uninjured, but apparently roughly placed there, some at the
bottom of the cupboard and some on the middle shelf. All the P. O. 's were
not interfered with on this occasion ; only those from 10s. Cd. up to 20s. were,
I think, missing.
In September a servant named Alice came (age 23. ) After her arrival
the annoyances increased. Besides the removal of objects and their partial
destruction by water, they were found now frequently in the boiler in the
kitchen range as well as in the yard. Doors were found locked1 and the
keys missing, a bed was wetted, besides other things which I will now relate.
Shortly after Alice came, one evening I wanted her to go out for something,
and when she came downstairs with her jacket on I saw she had a peculiar
white mark on the back of it. I brushed it off and told her to go upstairs
again ; this she did and returned at once, when I found two white marks of
the same kind as before. These I removed and again sent her upstairs ; she
returned again marked as before. A third and a fourth time I tried the
same experiment with the same result. The marks were on a part of her
back which I don't think she could reach with her own fingers but were
like marks which would be made by whitened fingers being placed on her.
The girl was after this always getting marks on her back, so that at the close
of a day's work her back would be covered with them ; she said she never
felt herself touched. About this time one Sunday evening, at Miss Z.'s
suggestion, I tied Alice's hands in front of her and sent her upstairs ; she
1 Doors were locked also in the elderly person's time.
Foltergeists. 83
returned at once with the usual marks in the usual places. She said she felt
no touch, but felt a cold sensation on her back while shew as away. On the
Tuesday following we tried the experiment again. There were present :—
Mr., Mrs., and Miss Y., Mr. R., Miss Z., Miss H. (now Mrs. L.).
Mr. Y. bound Alice's hands in front of her, and secured them further by
passing the cord round her waist ; we sent her upstairs and on her immediate
return marks as usual were found on her.
She was sent to other places besides upstairs with a similar result. She
was unbound and on return from a moment spent upstairs had marks. She
was again bound and the same results to our experiment were obtained.
On one or two other occasions Alice's hands were bound and on returning
after being sent upstairs the usual sort of white marks were found on her
back. Once her own father thus bound her hands.
Just after this Alice reported one morning that about six inches of her
hair had been cut off in the night ; we never found this hair. Three days
after this my niece's hair began to be cut off lock by lock, from three to four
inches long, and thrown on the ground.
This "cutting " began early in the afternoon, continued during that day
and the next morning, but not during the night which separated them. Ellen
says she felt nothing, and though I was constantly on the look out, I never
saw a lock being cut off but only found one on the ground now and again,
till all the girl's hair was cut short and it was so hacked that the barber had
to cut the remainder close to her head. I have only kept some of it.
About this time, one day I was in my room preparing to go out. Alice
was also upstairs, but Ellen was below. Alice went out of her room for
something, and on her return called out that Miss Ellen's bed was all wet.
I went into the room, and saw this was the condition of the bed. This was
the only time a bed was made wet during 1893, when Alice was with me.
The Monday after Ellen's hair was cut off, I sent her and Alice away.
During the absence of both for one day, nothing, to my knowledge, took
place. On Alice's return, a few things were unaccountably moved about,
and on the return of my niece the following Wednesday, all abnormal
manifestations ceased for a whole year. This was near the end of
November, 1893.
In April, 1894, Alice left, and in September a new servant arrived (whom
we always called Jane).
In November, things of an unusual kind began again—beds were con
tinually being wetted, things moved about and lost, a door locked and a key
missing on two different occasions, so that I had to have the lock taken off
to be able to get about, and as a new feature in the matter, things put on
the fire.
The first time anything unusual happened in connection with my servant
Jane was one Saturday early in November, '94. I sent her for some soap,
which she brought home and placed on the table in the kitchen and then went
about her work. I was in the kitchen at the time and saw it placed on the
table, but after that lost sight of it. In the afternoon this soap was wanted,
but could not be found ; my servant was greatly concerned about its loss and
offered to buy me a new piece. I was lying down in the sitting room when
the soap was missed, and said ' ' Don't be frightened, Jane ; go and look in
84 Frank Podmore.
the boiler." The soap was found there. I mentioned the boiler as a likely
place to find it, as from experience I knew that it was a favourite hiding-
place. Another of the first cases of this second set of annoyances was
when I was at tea one Saturday. Jane was in the room, and filled a jug
with hot water, which she set on the table in front of me. When I was
about to use it, I heard something metallic in the jug, and on looking found
my scissors in it. The girl declared that she was sure the scissors were not
in it when she filled it with hot water.
The next morning, Sunday, the servant found the door locked between
the sitting-room and the office, and the key missing. I had the lock taken
off. The next day the key was found, and I had the lock replaced. I put
the key in my own pocket for safety, as, till now, nothing had been removed
from my person. In the evening, however, I found the key was gone, and
as I expected in consequence that the door would be locked, I looked at
about 10.30 p.m., after supper, to see if it was so—it was not. Shortly
afterwards, when I was poking the fire, Ellen and the servant heard a
"click," and Jane said to my niece, "Did you hear that?" She said
"Yes," and I exclaimed "Go and look at the door." Jane went and
looked, saying, "Locked, miss,"—it was locked ! No one had been near
the door since I had looked and found it not locked. I had to take the lock
off again. Next morning the key was found in a saucepan of water. The
most distressing form of annoyance which has characterised these disturb
ances has been the repeated wetting of the beds both with clean and foul
water. In 1894 this became frequent ; sometimes all four beds (there are
two on one bedstead) have been wetted at the same time. I have super
intended the housemaid's work in the bedrooms, but still the beds have been
wetted, but not so much. Ellen or Jane have always been the last upstairs
on these occasions, except when sometimes they have come down together.
One Sunday (same day she found door locked first time) during November,
the servant reported the teapot missing. On Thursday Miss H. was helping
me to look for some stockings, which also had been lost. We had carefully
gone through all three bedrooms from Ellen's to mine, but not finding them,
determined to search back again before trying downstairs. We were
ending our second search of the bedrooms when on opening a box situated
near the top of the stairs, we found on the top of everything the missing tea
pot ; this box had been opened and searched by us a few minutes before, at
which time there was no teapot in it. I am certain that Ellen could not have
come up and placed it there while we were in my room and the servant was
not in the house. Going on with our search for the stockings downstairs, I
put my hand into the boiler and found it empty. Ellen at that moment came
out of the office, and went straight to the cupboard for the scissors, which were
seen there before we went upstairs. They were not to be found. Ellen asked
me if I knew where they were, I said "No." During this conversation Miss
H. and I had gone into the sitting room from the kitchen and after staying
for a minute or two in that room looking for the scissors, I returned to the
kitchen, and again felt in the boiler, where I now found the scissors. Miss
H. followed me into the kitchen and Ellen followed her. I am certain that
Ellen did not go into the kitchen between the time I felt in the boiler for
the stockings and the finding of the scissors. The servant was still out.
Poltergeists. 85
The police were called in, but could make nothing of it all.
One Wednesday in November, Jane and my niece went away from home,
but before they left we missed the lamp glass from my lamp. On Friday I
was sitting over the fire in an armchair when I was called into the office. On
my return I found the curtains of the window behind my chair had been
pulled back and hitched up over the back of my chair, and when I came to
look close I found iny lamp glass on the sill. Miss Jones came in just after
and I showed her the state of the curtain and the position of the lamp glass.
I don't know when the glass got there, it might have been there since Wed
nesday.
On another occasion, in November 1894, I was engaged in the office and
had told Ellen to watch a garment which was drying before the fire in the
sitting room ( it must always be remembered that we found that as long as
anything was watched it was not interfered with). Ellen was wanted in the
office, and before coming removed the garment to the kitchen table for safety.
On her return in a few minutes she found the garment on the fire. I took it
off myself. Jane was upstairs all the time and knew nothing about it.
During this month also, when alone in the house, I have heard steps in the
room over the sitting room, and once when Miss H. and I were the only
people at home we both heard the steps in the same room.
I also heard the nine knocks about which Miss H. speaks when she was
in the cellar. I never heard similar knocks at any other time.
What I have stated is only a small part of that which has taken place.
At one time things of one kind or another went on every hour of the day ;
they are not now so frequent. Still on Friday, January 4th, 1895, Miss B., my
assistant in the post office, lost some of her things, and on Saturday, the 19th,
a folded sheet was put into the water in one of the bedrooms. Ellen, who
had gone upstairs for a handkerchief, says all was right when she left the
room, but when I went up a quarter of an hour afterwards the sheet was in
the water. Our servant had left us before this took place.
I have perfect confidence in my niece and do not think for a moment that
Ellen has had any hand in producing these mysterious and annoying things.
Nor can I suspect either of my servants.
I have had to search the house so many times for various things that I
know every corner of it, and feel sure that when things are missing and
subsequently found in the yard or house, they could not in the meantime be
concealed anywhere about. I am confident that if they had been in the
house I should have found them, at all events such large things as lady's
hats, a teapot, etc. Small things, of course, I could not be so confident
about.
I have had many people in the house who have searched it and cross-
examined us for an explanation of these things, but with no result. On more
than one occasion when Alice with her hands bound was sent upstairs and
returned with the white marks on her back, the stairs and rooms above
have been searched to discover anything by means of which she might have
printed the marks on her back or otherwise caused them, but nothing has
been found of this nature.
My landlord, Mr. T., a retired carpenter, has frequently been here ; he
speaks about the affair in a peculiar manner. He says for example that his
86 Frank Podmore.
wife, who lived in this house with him 20 or 22 years ago, " had a devil ; "
that it would soon all come out now. I asked on one occasion if he could
see through my affair. He assented and added, "But I have left it all to
God. He has forgiven me." Another day I asked him to explain his
meaning as to seeing through this affair, but he said " How can II It is
impossible for me to explain it."
I think it right to say that I think he has a kind of religious mania, and I
am not altogether sure that he quite understands the significance which
might be attached to his statements.
Some gentlemen came on the evening of January 5th and held a stance.
They suppose themselves to have got into communication with the " spirit "
who is causing all these annoyances, and to have obtained a very extraordinary
account of who he had been in this life and what had become of him.
I know nothing of spiritualism and never was at a seance before, so I can
offer no opinion about this one.
In a letter dated June, 1895, Miss K. stated that the disturbances
still continued ; the new servant's best hat had recently been found in
a water-jug, and a pair of stockings, some teacups and a library book
in the kitchen boiler.
Other witnesses depose to the disappearances of gloves, a hat, and
various other objects ; and confirm Miss K.'s account of the finding
of the teapot, the chalk marks on the servant's back, and other
phenomena.
Of Ellen, Colonel Taylor writes, '. She is a girl of about 16 years
old, very intelligent, but a cripple from her infancy. She cannot
easily raise her hands to her head. She uses scissors in an imperfect
and awkward manner. She limps and is not able to move about
quickly, or without considerable noise."
In her signed statement Ellen corroborates generally her aunt's
version of the various incidents, and denies that she herself had had
any part in doing the things. The statement concludes as follows :—
Statement of Ellen P.
February 13th, 1895.
1st Appearance.—I now come to a separate experience of mine.
On June 6th, 1893, before my grandmother died, but after a few
unaccountable things had taken place in the house, I was in the office when
a stranger who was well dressed and had a top hat on came in and asked for
a Postal Order for 5s. I gave him one, and he paid for it in two half-crowns
and a penny. I thought him an ordinary customer. He entered into
conversation with me, and said he knew my grandfather and other relations,
that he knew my Auntie very well, and told me her Christian name. I said,
"Let me call her, she would like to see you," but he would not let me.
Eventually he went out and I told Auntie about him.
2nd Appearance.—At about 4.15 the same day I was in Orchard-street
when a man, like a beggar, in ragged clothes, whom I did not recognize, and
Poltergeists. 87
who was standing a little way down Newton-street, beckoned to me and said,
" Come here, I won't hurt you. I am the gentleman who was talking to you
in the office." I went up to him and did not feel afraid, nor at the time did
I think how strange it was that he should be so different. He said his name
was Sykes and that he lived in Lacey-street, but he carried on the thread of
the conversation begun in the office, and at the time I considered him the
same individual as had bought the 5s. order, in spite of his changed
appearance. He also told me on this occasion that my Aunt had written
a business letter, the name of the person to whom it was addressed, and
its contents. He said that my Aunt had sold her earrings some time ago,
and what she had got for them. He told me that Auntie had been to G.'s
shop and what she had bought. He also repeated to me a conversation which
had been carried on during the day in the office in my presence between my
Aunt and two friends who came in. I asked him how he knew, and he
answered that he was listening round the corner.
3rd Appearance.—At 5.30 about, I was in the yard when he looked over
the door at the end. This time he was dressed as a parson, and had quite a
different face. I only saw his head and as much of his neck as to show me
his clerical collar, etc. I did not recognize him, except that he said that he was
the same person who had spoken to me before, and from his conversation I
believed him. He told me he was the Rev. Mr. B., who had been engaged
to my aunt's sister, and added that she did not die of consumption, but that
he had broken her heart. He said he had preached at St. Stephen's Church.
He said he stuck on his moustache with gum, and had often tried to alter
the colour of his eyes by pouring ink into them. He showed me a small
hassock which he said he kept to enable him to look over the gate, and he
showed me something black which he said was the pocket in which he kept
it. He said lastly, " I have plenty of money, but I would rather lay it all
at your feet than that your Auntie should see me."
4t/i Appearance.—At about 7 the same evening I was in the W. road
when I saw him again. This time he was dressed as a soldier. He had on a
striped coat, red and black, dark trousers with a wide red stripe down them
and a round cap with a yellow band set slantways on his head. He had a
gun in his hand which he held by the middle, off the ground, and with the
thick end towards me. I know it was a gun because I saw the thing you
pull to make it go off. He was standing on the outer edge of the pavement
facing inwards. He told me that Auntie was in the habit of walking along
the T. Road with a dark lady ; he did not like it, and would shoot them,
but would shoot the dark lady first. He said he loved Auntie, and I asked
him why he wanted to shoot her, and he answered "I must do my duty." I
knew him for the same person that I had spoken to before by his conversa
tion. He had stopped me as I passed him.
oth Appearance.—Next day about 8.30 a.m. I saw him again over the
yard gate, this time dressed as a sailor. He said, "Here I am again. I
was in the passage when the policeman came at 12 o'clock last night. I put
up my hands and disappeared. When I want to turn into a man again I put
my hands down. It is your grandmother's birthday to-day, and your Aunt
has just wished her ' many happy returns of the day.' " He also said that
Granny had spasms that morning, which was true. It was also true about
Frank Podmore.
Auntie wishing her mother many happy returns, for I had heard her do no
just before the sailor appeared. He said also, " I know they are going
to set the police to watch me."
6th Appearance. —About five minutes after this he again looked over the
gate, this time as a woman dressed in maroon velvet with a hat just like
Auntie's. She said, " Come here. I want to tell you something more." She
said that Mrs. M. had come in and borrowed 2s. from Auntie, and had
repaid it on Saturday morning.
7th Appearance.—Again at about 8.40 she appeared over the gate, this
time dressed in dark blue velvet. Auntie had told me that if I saw him (or
her) again I was to say that she wondered that he (or she) had nothing better-
to do. This I did. Her eyes blazed, and she said, "If she says that again
I will make her life a terror to her. "
9th Appearance. —Mr. F. came in during the morning, and on being told
about these visits insisted on going for the police. While he was gone, and
while Auntie was upstairs, I was in the office at the telegraph instrument,
when " my stranger" came in as a well-dressed man and said, " The police
are after me, I am going abroad." He put out his left hand to shake hands,
but I could not leave the instrument. He then said, "Good-bye. I am off,
you will never see me again. "
9th Appearance.—I did see him again, however, in the street shortly after
wards ; as I passed him he said, without turning to me, " You see I am not
gone yet."
The following are some more scraps of conversation I remember, but
can't quite recollect at which appearance they took place.
When he appeared as a beggar, I think, he told me that Mr. J. had
come to breakfast on one occasion some years before, and had had a hard
egg given to him.
He told me that he was the person who had written a letter to my Aunt
asking her to meet him on the W. road.
During one of his visits he told me that Auntie had come to the N.
Street window and asked Granny for Miss J.'s " register " (a book). I was
asleep at the time she did so, and did not know it till he told me.
I had heard "Grandma " say to Auntie, " I wonder if the C. 's could see
him in the passage." When afterwards I went into the yard and he was
speaking to me, I can't remember which time, he said, " You think the C.'s
can see me, but they can't ; nobody can see me." I had not mentioned the
C. 's to him.
The C.'s then lived opposite to us, and their "bake office" was almost
opposite our passage.
From time to time I told Auntie and my grandmother what was going
on. Auntie made several attempts to see him, but never could do so, and the
police were unable to trace him in any way.
He told me much more during our conversations than I can now
remember.
Some of the things he told me I knew before, some I remembered when
he told me, but much that he said was new to me, and the pleasure of being
told my Aunt's secrets had something to do with my forgetting to be
frightened at his change of appearance.
Poltergeists. 89
It remains only to add that several witnesses had heard mysterious
steps and knockings in the house ; and that three persons testified to
having seen, on two separate occasions, a white cloudy apparition in the
parlour. On the first of these occasions the apparition was collective.
As regards the physical phenomena, Colonel Taylor remarks that
" the greater number of the incidents would, if considered singly, be
justly and naturally referred to the ordinary action of some one or
other of the occupants of the house." After considering each incident
separately and pointing out a possible explanation by normal means,
he proceeds :—" As to the marks reported to have been repeatedly
produced on the servant's back, if any reliance is to be placed on the
accuracy of the narrators, and if the amount of evidence available is
considered sufficient, these may be considered, I think, as beyond
explanation by ordinary means." As regards the amount of evidence
available, no less than six witnesses (exclusive of Miss K. and Alice
herself) attest the appearance of the mysterious " markings " on the
servant's back, after she had been sent upstairs with her hands tightly
bound. One witness adds the interesting observation that when the
servant was sent into the yard outside the house instead of upstairs,
" a white mark of indefinite shape " was found on her back ; and
another states that when he accompanied Alice upstairs no marks
appeared. None of the witnesses in their original statements mention
the whereabouts of Ellen dui'ing these manifestations. Alice in
her account of the matter does not mention Ellen ; and Ellen's
own signed statement contains no allusion to the chalk marksr It
is true that Colonel Taylor, in his report, states that Ellen was present
and witnessed the phenomenon, but he does not give his authority for
this statement. One of the witnesses, Mr. R., a clerk from the head
post office of the town, in a report which he was good enough to send
us in March, 1896 (more than two years after the occurrence), states
that Ellen was in the parlour on the occasion when he was present and
saw the chalk marks with the others in the kitchen. His contem
porary statement (unsigned), as taken down by Colonel Taylor, contains
however, no reference to Ellen.
In view of the uncertainty as to the whereabouts of a person who,
on any theory of the disturbances, must be regarded as the central
figure in the drama, and regarding the phenomenon as one which could
be readily produced by normal means, even without Ellen's intervention,
I am disposed to question both the accuracy of the narrators, and the
sufficiency of the evidence in this instance for abnormal agency, and if
this is admitted the whole case for such agency falls to the ground.
It has been shown that Ellen was subject to hallucinations of a
lively kind ; also that she had by some means acquired knowledge of
the contents of an anonymous letter addressed to her aunt, and of a
90 Frank Poclmore.
business letter written by her aunt, which never reached its proper
destination. It will be seen, further, that if allowance is made for
so much exaggeration and such lapses of memory as we have
found to occur in similar cases, all the physical phenomena alleged
to have taken place were well within the competence of Ellen, aided
occasionally by one of the servants, to perform by perfectly normal
means. It is hardly necessary to look any further for an explanation
of the mystery. If this explanation has not commended itself to Miss
K., it is apparently because she has implicit confidence in her niece's
own statement that she didn't do the things.
Case VII.—The Durweston Case.
In January, 1895, we received accounts of an outbreak in the
West Country. The following is an extract from the Western Gazette,
January 11th, 1895.
' ' The little village of Durweston, situate about three miles from Blandford,
has been for some weeks past the scene of considerable excitement in conse
quence of the supposition that one of its cottages is haunted. The cottage in
question is one of a double tenement, situate at Norton—a spot isolated from
the rest of the village, some considerable distance from the highway, and on
the outskirts of a wood. The cottages are owned by Viscount Portman ; his
keeper (named Newman) occupies one, and the other until recently has been
in the occupation of a widow (named Mrs. Best), her daughter, and two little
orphan girls, who were boarded out to Mrs. Best by the Honourable Misses
Pitt,T)f Steepleton. It is in the latter house that these occurrences took place,
which have caused such a scare in the village. More than a month since Mrs.
Best—who it may here be stated, is a most respectable woman, of a quiet,
inoffensive disposition, and on good terms with her neighbours and the village
generally—became puzzled by faint knocking and scratching in various parts
of the house, and could account for the same in no possible way. As days
passed there was a repetition of these strange noises, which gradually
increased in sound, until they could be heard by the keeper Newman in his
own house. About a fortnight since these sounds—which the village black
smith, who was an auditor of the same, described as then being as heavy as
sledge hammer blows—were succeeded by still more startling events, for,
according to Mrs. Best's version, stones came violently through the bedroom
windows, smashing the panes, and then returned through the windows.
The neighbours instituted a thorough search of the surroundings to see if
there was any one in hiding who was playing a joke upon the woman, but
there was not the slightest trace of a human being, nor of footsteps."
In the latter part of January Mr. Westlake proceeded to Durweston
and took down the statements of some of the principal witnesses—
about 20 in all.
The disturbances, it appears, began on December 13th, 1894. On
the 18th December Mr. Newman witnessed some of the phenomena.
Poltergeists. 91
The following is an extract from Mr. Westlake's notes of an
account given to him by Mr. Newman on the 23rd January, 1895 :—
On Tuesday (December 18th) between 10 and 11 a.m., Mrs. Best sent
for me, and told me that Annie (the elder girl, about 13 years of age) had
seen a boot come out of the garden plot and strike the back door, leaving a
muddy mark. I went into Mrs. Best's, and I saw a bead strike the
window ; and then soon after a big blue bead struck the window and broke
it, and fell back. Then a little toy-whistle struck the window, but did not
break it. Then I sat down in the chair, and said, " You're a coward, you're
a coward ; why don't you throw money ? " I was looking at the door
opening into the garden, it was wide open, leaving a space of 15 inches
between it and the inner wall, when I saw coming from behind the door, a
quantity of little shells. They came round the door from a height of about
5 feet. They came one at a time, at intervals varying from half-a-minute
to a minute. They came very slowly, and when they hit me I could hardly
feel them. With the shells came two thimbles. They came so slowly, that
in the ordinary way they would have dropped long before they reached me.
They came from a point, some, I think, a trifle higher, and some no higher,
than my head. Both the thimbles struck my hat. Some missed my head
and went just past, and fell down slantingwise (not as if suddenly dropped).
Those that struck me fell straight down.
The two children were all the time in the same room with me.
Then right from behind me a slate pencil came as if from the copper.
The pencil was about 2i inches long, and went slowly on a slant to a bowl
on the floor in the pantry ; and another piece went just in the same
direction just over the bowl, and went into a pot of dirty water.
And a hasp, like the hasp of a glove, was dropped into my lap from a
point above the level of my head.
I never saw any of the things begin to move. I saw some of them just
after they were started. Time was somewhere between 10 and 11 a.m. —a
nice clear day ; don't remember whether there was sunlight.
A boot came then in from outside the door. It came in moving along
a foot above the ground, and pitched down. The boot had been lying right
in front of the door, where it had previously fallen. This boot came
towards me, and fell down just at my side. Mrs. Best took it and threw it
out—it was an old dirty boot from off the garden plot (it was a woman's
boot). I think the boot moved about as slow as the others, but cannot
quite remember. It finally fell softly.
After the boot was thrown out into the garden, I went out and put my
foot on it, and said, "I defy anything to move this boot." Just as I
stepped off, it rose up behind me and knocked my hat off ; there was no one
behind me. The boot and the hat fell down together.
A few days later the two children, with their foster-mother, Mrs.
Best—a woman, it should be said, of about 60 years—went to stay in
Mr. Newman's cottage for some days. Whilst they were there the
Rector of Durweston, the Rev. W. M. Anderson, came to witness the
phenomena. On his first visit (Friday, the 4th January, 1895) nothing
92 Frank Podmore.
took place. On Thursday, January 10th, he went again, accompanied
by Mr. Sheppard, the schoolmaster. Mrs. Best took the two children
upstairs and put them to bed, herself lying down in the bed with
them. The subjoined chart shows the disposition of the furniture :—
MRS. BESTS HOUSE.
bo
a
'5.
c
-j.
Washing
Stand
Mr. NEWMaN'S HOUSE.
u
■a
J3
1"° s
c S3
+ ■!.
s
2
O
East
Poltergeists. 93
Loud rappings were heard, apparently on the walls in different
parts of the room. Mr. Sheppard went outside the house to see that
no one was playing tricks from outside, whilst the Rector remained
within, the noises still continuing. Subjoined is an extract from Mr.
Anderson's account, written on the 25th January, 1895, of the events
of that evening :—
I put my ear and hand to the wall, but could not detect any vibration ;
but when resting my hand on the rail at the bottom of the bed, I could
distinctly feel a vibration varying according to the loudness of the
knocking. It is, perhaps, needless to say that I searched the room and the
house, also Mrs. Best's house from top to bottom. Occasionally there
.was a noise in the wall, as if some one were scratching with their nails.
This scratching also appeared to be going on in the mattress of the bed,
.although I am sure it was not produced by any of the three occupants of
the bed, as I could see their hands, and watched them very closely all the
time.
There was a lighted lamp, a small hand lamp giving a good light, on the
washstand the whole time. When the rapping first began, I noticed that
it frequently ceased when I came into the room, but after a short time it
made no difference, and was loud and continuous when every inmate of the
house was in the room. About 2.15 a.m. it was suggested by some one, I
believe Mr. Sheppard, tha* the "Agency" should be asked whether it
would write any communication on a slate ; the number of raps requested
for an affirmative were given. There was no slate in the Newmans' house,
but Mrs. Best told us where we should find,one in her house. Newman
Mr. Sheppard, and myself went into her house, found the slate and a piece
of pencil, and returned. In reply to several questions as to where the slate
was to be placed, the number of knocks asked for was given for the window-
sill (inside, of course), the sill being some 9 or 10 inches wide. I may
mention that every conceivable place in the room was suggested one after
the other, but the right number of raps was not given, but a short, sharp
knock which seemed always to be given for a negative. We almost gave up
at this point, until as an afterthought I suggested the window-sill, which was
at once accepted. The next question was as to who was to remain in the
room, and according to the knocks every one was to leave, except the two
children and Mrs. Best ; the light was also to be removed. The sign to be
given when the writing was finished was four raps. We all retired down
the stairs, which are about ten in number and straight. I remained at the
bottom of the stairs, with the bedroom door wide open, it was very dark at
the time. Some 15 seconds elapsed, and amid perfect silence we all heard
the pencil scratching on the slate. Mrs. Best gave a suppressed groan,
which I could distinctly hear. Four sharp raps were given almost simul
taneously with the dropping of the pencil on the slate, and Mrs. Best gave
a loud, screaming call, " Come." I was in the room instantly ; the whole
thing taking less time than it would take to read this description. The
light showed some unmeaning scratches on the slate. We asked for some
thing legible, which was promised in the usual way. It was with the
greatest difficulty that we could persuade Mrs. Best to remain in the room
94 Frank Podmore.
a second time, but we prevailed on her to do so, I promising to remain on
the stairs. The second time a flourish [something like this] was on the
slate—
Only the curves were beautifully drawn with firm bold lines, such as no-
child could produce. The same proceedings took place a third time, when
M
1
was found on the slate. The fourth time
MONY
and the fifth time
O
GARDEN
O
Every time I was nearer to the bedroom door, which was wide open and
opposite the window. The last two or three times I was so close that I
could almost hear Mrs. Best breathe, the silence being death-like. The-
dightest movement by any one in the bed would have been detected by me-
in a moment, and I am absolutely certain that the writing could not have
been done by any one in the room without my knowing it. On one occasion
the pencil rolled off on to the floor, and was broken in two pieces.
Mrs. Best cannot write ; the younger child cannot, she was asleep ;
Annie Cleave can. I told Mrs. Best that I was myself convinced that no one
had moved in the bed, much less left it, but I said people would say such
had been the case. She said she was prepared to take a solemn oath that
none of them had moved or left the bed, which was some 4 ft. or more from
the window.
We could get no more replies in the way of raps, and nothing more was
heard that night. Mr. Sheppard and I left at ten minutes to three.
I should like to say a word about the characters of those who have-
witnessed and heard these abnormal phenomena. With one exception
(Spinney) they are all known to me personally, and the veracity and honesty
of them all is beyond question. Mrs. Best is an earnest Christian woman,,
who bears perhaps the highest character in the village.
Later, the children were taken to another house in the village,
where raps and other noises were heard ; and were finally separated,
the elder child, Annie, being removed to another village, Iwerne*
Minster, to the house of a single woman. There the disturbance still
Poltergeists. 95
continued : noises were heard, generally on the outer walls of the
house ; a big stone was flung on the roof of the porch ; and snowdrops
were dug up out of the garden and flung about. On March 7th, Miss
M. H. Mason, Local Government Board Inspector of Boarded-out
children, came down and took the child Annie to stay in her flat in
London for a week. No disturbance worth recording occurred during
her stay in London.
Miss Mason had the child examined by a doctor, who pronounced
her of a markedly consumptive tendency, and apparently hysterical.
A sister two years older than herself, has since died from consumption.
According to another witness, Annie, during the earlier disturbances,
saw a queer animal with green head and green eyes, and a big bushy
tail, sitting up and pulling her doll to pieces with its paws. Gertie,
the younger girl, she added, saw the same apparition when Annie
called to her.
It will be observed that the account given by the educated
witness, Mr. Anderson, of the phenomena observed by himself is quite
compatible with trickery on the part of the children. But this
supposition implies in Mrs. Best either connivance or, in the alterna
tive, a degree of stupidity which it is difficult to credit. This is a
real difficulty ; since Mrs. Best, a Nonconformist, was by all her
fellow-villagers, even including the Rector, looked upon as a thoroughly
respectable woman ; and the sequel of the outbreak, at any rate, was
most detrimental to her interests, since she lost in the girl Annie a
lucrative lodger, who had been with her for nearly four years.
As regards the things vouched for by Newman, it should be observed
that the account was not committed to writing until 5 weeks after the
events.
On the whole I think it would be difficult, on the evidence obtain
able, to substantiate in this case a theory of supernormal agency.1
Case VIII.—The Ham Case.
Early in February, 1895, we received intelligence of a Polter
geist at Ham, a little village near Hungerford, in Berkshire. The
following extract from a letter written by a local clergyman will give
some idea of how the matter was regarded in the neighbourhood.
"Froxfield Vicarage, Hungerford, Berks.
"Janiutry 31st, 1895.
" There is a veritable ghost at Ham ; it has overturned boots and shoes
from the slab of an oven on to the hob—overturned a stool, and pitched the
1 Mr. Westlake proposes to give a fuller account of his investigations in this case
in an early number of the Journal.
96 Frank Podmore.
cat on it into the fire —upset tables and all sorts of things. The tenant's
name is Turner, and he works for Mr. Woodman. Woodman has put the
man into an adjacent, but not adjoining, house, and has had the floor of the
house taken up, but has not discovered the cause, and now the same pranks
are going on in the house into which the people have removed. It is no
delusion—it takes place in broad daylight before people's eyes, and Edith
Woodman saw a table overturned on Tuesday. No one can explain it—it is
quite a mystery, and is causing great excitement through the country-side ;
people from Marlborough, Hungerford and Froxfield visit the scene of these
operations. They say that the people have a daughter who is eccentric and
deformed."
The ghost appears to have been particularly active on the evening
of January 24th. Appended are extracts from two letters chronicling
the events of this remarkable evening. The first witness is the local
constable ; he appends to his letter a plan of the room.
From Police Constable H. King.
County Police, Ham, Hungerford.
February Uth, 1895.
With reference to what I saw at Thomas Turner's cottage on Thursday,
January 24th, I respectfully beg to inform you that about 11 p.m. on the
PLAN OF ROOM.
8 5 o
Cupboard —x Fireplace
II
Oven
A
Armchair
Kitchen
Table Door
IB
a -3
/
r
% w
Chair
Kitchen Table
E
D
Chair Chair
CM
Poltergeists. 97
date named above, I went into Turner's cottage. The first thing I saw was
the armchair fall over on its side. After a few minutes I saw one of the
kitchen chairs fall forwards. The next I saw was a four-legged stool which
was standing in the chimney corner that fell over on its side into the fire.
No one was near enough to touch either when it fell. I saw the things
when [they ?] were falling, and [they ?] came over with great force. Polly
Turner was at this time with her father the other side of the house by the
oven. Some time after this Polly Turner came out into the middle of the
room near where I was, ( there were two kitchen chairs standing about 2
yards from me, [near the pantry] one had books and a workbox on it). Polly
went near the chair, and put out her hand to take a book, but before she
could take it, over went the chair and nearly fell on the girl. It fell
towards her, but so as to just miss her, and she ran away apparently
frightened. The armchair fell away from the girl, but the other three
kitchen chairs came towards her. The only time that I saw her anywhere
near the chairs was, as I said, when she went to get a book, and the chair
fell before she could reach it. I should say that during the time I was
there, Polly was three yards away from the chairs when they fell down, except
the time I mentioned. I saw them go down several times ; they simply
fell down, and there remained till one of the party put them up again.
The persons present in the room were P.C. H. King, Mr. Thos. Martin,
Mr. F. H. Grist, Mr. Thos. Frances, Ed. Stockwell, Simon Cook, Wm.
Whiter, Abel Cumings, Jesse Rolfe, and Mr. Maggs, and Turner's family.
From Mr. J. Rolfe.
Ham, Hungerford. February 14th, 1895.
I am writing to give you all information of what I saw on January 24th,
between a quarter past nine o'clock and twelve o'clock p.m., in Mr. Turner's
house. The first thing I saw was the oven's lid fall, and then the stool
with two cats sat upon it, and it threw the cats into the fire. There was not
much fire. The next thing that went over was one of the chairs against
the pantry. They both went over, but it was about five minutes between.
Then I saw the armchair go over, and I saw the oven's lid fall several times,
and the stool and chairs when no one was near them. They went over with
great force, no one could throw them over so swift. The things went
straight over. I did not see them start, for when I was looking at one thing
to see it go over, one of the others went over. The little girl Polly was
not close to throw it over. Her father or her brother was nursing her
most of the time I was there. Mr. Turner was sitting in the chair close
to the oven most of the time, and the other people were standing round
by the table, and sometimes one or two were around by the armchair,
but not [so] close but what it could fall. I have made a x as near as I
could where the people stood when the things went over. It could not have
been possible for the little girl Polly to have thrown it over.
We have received similar accounts of the disturbances on that even
ing from Mr. Cumings and Mr. Stockwell. Another witness, Mr.
Martin, saw the furniture moving on two occasions. He writes :—
" There were other persons present, standing all about the room,
ii
98 Frank Podmore.
but not very near the chairs. I am quite sure the child did not touch
them, they seemed to fall as she passed them. The armchair fell on
its side, the others forward. It was between 10 and 11 o'clock in the
evening." Another witness, Mr. James Kavanagh, describes some
movements which he saw after the Turner family had moved to
another house. He writes—
Having heard so many reports of table and chairs turning over, I deter
mined to visit and so satisfy my curiosity.
About a fortnight ago I went to the house at 4.30 p.m. and stood
at place marked K. Nothing occurred for about ten minutes, when I
heard the stool under the table turn over. The boy Turner replaced it.
In a few minutes it toppled over again. A third time it did the same,
and each time towards the door. In a short time I observed the chair
(marked in plan) turn over, likewise towards the door. The chair was
fully 5 or 6 feet from me.
I am confident no one moved it. I examined the chair well to see if there
was any trickery, as I have always been averse to anything of the sort.
Ham N. School, Hungerford, Berks.
February Uth, 1895.
PLAn OF ROOM.
Fireplace
Mrs. Turner +
Polly Turner + + Boy Turner
K
Table with stool
under it. Chair +
Chair which
turned over Chair +
Recess
under
Stairs.
Door
Poltergeists. 99
Early in February Mr. Westlake went to Ham. On the morning
following his arrival he wrote as follows :—
Letter I.
Post Office, Ham, Hungerford, Berks, February 9th, 1895.
Nothing is alleged in this case but the frequent movements of objects
(except that Mrs. Turner says that once she saw a woman's face in the oven).
It is one of those baffling cases where the thing won't work, or only incon
clusively, in the presence of strangers. At least that was my experience
last evening ; some local observers have had better success, I hear. Never
theless I think it to be genuine from the hundred and one indications which
one gathers when talking with the folks around their hearth—the primitive
stance. Polly, a little dwarfed black-haired girl, turning 12, sits in the
chimney corner and nurses the cats Topsy and Titit—she is the centre of
force—then (in the absence of strangers) the coals fly about and all moveable
objects are thrown down ad libitum, and ad nauseam according to their
account.
It has been a nine days' wonder, and local interest (all unintelligent) is
dying.
The Turners, however, say that things are as active as ever (last evening,
e.g.) The report that they have made money out of it seems to be untrue.
On the same day, a few hours later, Mr. Westlake writes as
follows :—-
Letter II.
The " Ham Ghost " is a humbug note, whatever it may have been. I
made friends with the cats, and their mistress, poor child, gave me a private
sitting of some 2 or 3 hours, in the course of which she moved between
40 and 50 objects when she thought I wasn't looking (her plan being to watch
me till I looked away.) However, I saw her in contact with the objects with
every degree of distinctness, and on se . en (at least) occasions by simple
devices I had a clear view of her hands in contact with the objects and
saw them quickly moved. I entered into the spirit of the thing, and
said nothing to any one, beyond suggesting to the lady (Miss Woodman) at
the Manor House that the affair would probably cease if no further attention
were paid to it, and that some one would do well to watch the child.
She is a dwarf, aged 12, who has only lately learned to walk, pale, with
long, black hair and eyes, very sharp, and watches one like a cat a mouse.
Her mother is said never to leave the house or to allow the child to do so.
But it is curious that a little child should succeed in deceiving a whole
country side, and especially in deceiving her parents (for I do not think they
are implicated ;—if they have suspicions, they smother them ; they appear
genuinely worried.) The mother would sometimes ask the child, after a
particularly barefaced " upset," whether she did it, and she always denied.
Mr. Westlake has kindly furnished the following additional particu
lars of what he observed :—"After posting my first letter, I went to the
Turners' and sat on a bench in front of the fire. No one else was present
h 2
100 Frank Podmore.
besides the child. She sat on a low stool in the chimney on the right
of the fire. On the other side of the hearth there was a brick oven in
which, much to Polly's interest, I placed a dish of flour, arguing that a
power capable of discharging the contents of the oven (one of the first
disturbances) might be able to impress the flour. After a time I went to
the oven to see how the flour was getting on, stooping slightly to look in,
but kept my eyes on the child's hands, looking at them under my right
arm. I saw her hand stealing down towards a stick that was projecting
from the fire; I moved slightly and the hand was withdrawn. Next time
I was careful to make no movement and saw her hand jerk the brand
out on to the floor. She cried out. I expressed interest and astonish
ment ; and her mother came in and cleared up the debris. This was
repeated several times, and one or two large sticks ready for burning
which stood near the child were thrown down. Then a kettle which
was hanging on a hook and chain was jerked off the hook on to the fire.
This was repeated. As the kettle refused to stay on its hook, the
mother placed it on the hearth, but it was soon overturned on to the
floor and upset. After this I was sitting on the bench which stood
facing the fire in front of the table. I had placed my hat on the table
behind me. The little girl was standing near me on my right hand.
Presently the hat was thrown down on the ground. I did not on the
first occasion see the girl's movements, but later, by seeming to look in
another direction, I saw her hand sweep the hat off on to the floor.
This I saw at least twice. A Windsor chair near the girl was then
upset more than once, falling away from her. On one occasion I saw
her push the chair over with both hands. As she was looking away
from me, I got a nearly complete view. After one of these performances
the mother came in and asked the girl if she had done it, but she
denied it."
With Mr. Westlake's observations it is interesting to compare
the following account by Mr. E. N. Bennett, of Hertford College,
Oxford :—
A week after Mr. Westlake's visit to Ham, I went over from Oxford and
stayed for nearly five hours in the Turners' cottage, viz., from 5 to 9.50 p.m.
During this time certain phenomena occurred. A table moved some 4
inches along the floor ; a stool, upon which a little girl (the supposed
medium) sat, was repeatedly jerked about and on one occasion so completely
as to upset her upon the floor ; a teapot full of tea fell forward violently
upon the floor from a raised, but firm and level, hearth ; and, finally, a chair
placed by myself some 10 or 12 inches from the child in question moved
towards her four times.
With respect to the above phenomena, I noticed—a. That whenever
they occurred the child was in very close proximity to the material objects
affected. /3. That none of these movements were initiated when I was
looking directly at the child and the furniture near her.
Poltergeists. 101
During the latter part of my time in the cottage, I placed the child quite
apart from the rest of the family, upon a stool, and made her clasp her
hands before her, and also put her feet upon one of mine. Two movements
of furniture then took place, but in one case, her hands, I noticed, were
momentarily unclasped, and in the other, one of her feet left my boot for
an instant.
My own impression is, certainly, that the movements I witnessed were
produced by trickery, although I was unable to actually detect the
fraudulent means employed. The child seems to combine with a defective
intelligence a considerable amount of cunning, while the garrulity and
exaggerated statements of the mother deprive her testimony of any value.
In the three cases which follow, the " medium " or person through
whose agency, physical or psychical, the manifestations were brought
about, was of superior education and social position to the little
rustics with whom we have chiefly been concerned hitherto. In the
first case, which I abridge from my own fuller statement written at
the time, we have direct confessions of trickery from two persons :
and there is no reason to doubt that the whole of the phenomena
attested were due to trickery. Indeed, no one in the house seems to
have been deceived in the matter, except the lady upon whose credulity
her guests appear to have practised.
Case IX.
In the autumn of 1894, Mrs. B., a lady living in a provincial town,
gave me an account of certain curious incidents which had recently
taken place in her house. The occupants of the house—an old one—
consisted, besides Mrs. B. and her family, of a widow lady, Mrs. D.,
and her two children—a girl of about 20, C. D., and a boy of 15, E. D.
Mrs. B., C. D., and E. D. had been in the habit of trying experi
ments with planchette in the evening. Planchette had given them to
understand that the house was haunted by four spirits, a wicked
marquis, a wicked monk, a lay desperado, and a virtuous and beautiful
young lady. These had, all four, met with violent deaths (minutely
described by planchette) at one another's hands in the house. These
spirits wrote, through planchette, of treasure concealed in the house; of a
hidden chamber ; and many other matters. They also promised through
planchette, and ultimately gave, objective proofs of their presence.
Amongst other proofs were the following :—(1) One evening after dark
Mrs. B., in accordance with directions received through planchette,
went with C. D. and E. D. to the old oak tree in the garden, and
standing with the girl and boy on either side, holding a hand of each,
she distinctly heard a stone strike the garden-roller a few feet off. The
phenomenon was repeated twice ; and her companions solemnly assured
her that they had no part in the performance.
102 Frank Podmore.
(2) On another occasion, sitting up in a bedroom (her son's) at the
top of the house in the dark, with only E. D. in the room, Mrs. B. was
struck by a stone on the temple, heard objects thrown about the room,
felt an arm put through hers, and so on. Some of these phenomena
also occurred when she was alone in the room—but with the door, I
gathered, not shut.
(3) Mrs. B. one morning placed a white chrysanthemum bouquet
on the boughs of the oak tree. It disappeared shortly afterwards ;
and on the next morning two other small bouquets were found there.
Mrs. B. asked for whom these were intended, and went away, leaving
pencil and paper. On her return she found the paper torn in half, and
the initials of her own Christian name, and that of C. D., written on
the two halves respectively, with a bouquet on each half.
(4) About this time a new secret chamber was discovered, with the
skeleton of a cat crouching in act to spring, and the skeleton of a
woman. Asked more particularly about the latter, Mrs. B. said :
" Well, at least, a skull and some bones—but it was a woman's skull."
A few days after receiving this account, I went down by invitation
to the house. I saw Mrs. D. and her two children, and received from
them ungrudging corroboration of Mrs. B.'s marvellous story. In
E. D.'s company I penetrated the secret chamber, and found there the
mummified skeleton of what might have been a cat—but nothing else.
In removing the stains left by this exploit from my person, I contrived
a tete-a-tete interview with E. D. I at once asked him, " How much did
you do of all these things 1" He replied, " Oh, not much ; I only did
a few little things." Pressed on particular points, he admitted having
thrown one stone at the garden-roller, and having also thrown a
trouser-button against the wall when sitting alone in the bedroom with
Mrs. B. He denied having produced the other phenomena on those
occasions. Asked as to the bouquets, he said he had not placed them
on the tree. Pressed a little more, he said, " If I did it, it must have
been without knowing it." (This without any suggestion from me as
to possible somnambulism, or unconscious action.) He assured me that
his sister had had no hand in this matter. I could not get any more
out of him, as he was shortly after called away.
I subsequently learnt from his mother that E. D. was so nervous
and delicate that he slept in her room at night ; that he was not
allowed to do much mental work ; that he was subject to attacks of
somnambulism ; and had, indeed, fallen into a semi-conscious state only
a few days before, during a lesson in carpentry.
Subsequently Miss C. D., whilst denying any complicity with her
brother in the " physical phenomena," admitted having deliberately
co-operated with him in working planchette, and writing answers of
their own invention to Mrs. B.'s questions.
Poltergeists. 103
These things may seem too foolish to he worth recording. I have
recorded them because—inoredible as it must seem—Mrs. B., an
educated woman, did unquestionably believe that she was in communi
cation, through planchette, with four spirits, who looked to her for help
and guidance ; and saw in a schoolboy's silly tricks special manifesta
tions of spirit power vouchsafed for her enlightenment. On the whole,
Mrs. B. was, perhaps, only a little more credulous than some of the
other witnesses to the doings of Poltergeists.
Case X.
The house in which the phenomena to be described took place is
a small terrace-house in a town in the south of England, occupied by
Mr. and Mrs. B. and their family. The younger daughter, Alice,
is barely 1 2. She is very tall and pale, and has apparently outgrown
her strength ; and is compelled, under medical advice, to lie down on
her bed for an hour or two every afternoon. She impressed me, on my
visit to the house, as being very intelligent, energetic and clever beyond
her years.
In the summer of 18—— the servant complained of hearing strange
noises in the house, and shadows behind her, and occasionally of being
touched. In the course of the same year Mrs. B. on one occasion
heard a tremendous blow on the door of a room in which she was
sitting ; and on another occasion saw part of a figure clothed in a print
dress through the half-open door of the dining-room.
In the autumn of the following year, however, the phenomena
were very frequent and striking. The manifestations were of two kinds :
(1) physical disturbances, (2) auditory and visual phenomena, which
may have been hallucinations. It will be convenient first to consider the
physical phenomena. If we omit such matters as blows on doors, the
violent slamming of half-opened doors, and the fall of a picture from its
nail, the most striking physical phenomena are the following :—
I cite these in the order in which they are given in the narrative
furnished by Mr. B. and other members of the family. (1) Alice,
when alone in her room, found some newly-shed blood on the floor.
(2) Alice, entering her bedroom, closely followed by Miss K., an
inmate of the house, found that her water-jug had been quite recently
upset on the floor. (3) A water-jug was again found upset in the
same bedroom, Alice being in the room alone at the time. (4) Mrs.
B., in stooping down to kiss her daughter Alice good-night, felt
distinctly a hand laid on her back. (5) A charwoman complained
that a saucepan was dragged from her hand and dashed down on the
stove. (6) A chair was moved in Mrs. B's room, Alice being the only
other person present. (7) A picture was seen to move from its
104 Frank Podmore.
position on the wall of the dining room to the extent of about 4 inches.
It then, when commanded by Mrs. B., in the name of the Trinity,
returned slowly to its original position. The witnesses to this
phenomenon were Mrs. B., Alice, and Miss K. (8) A card-table, at
which Mrs. B., Miss K., Miss B.,and Alice were seated, moved sharply
and struck Miss K. on the arm. (9) Two little boys were having
tea with Alice in the dining-room. One of the little boys had first his
leg and then his throat sharply pinched.
It is, perhaps, not uncharitable to suggest that the fall of the
saucepan may have been due to the clumsiness of the charwoman, and
that the other disturbances were caused by Alice, by ordinary physical
means. The only incident which, on this interpretation, offers any
difficulty is the movement of the picture on the wall of the dining-
room. This may have been moved by a string ; though I could find no
trace either on the picture itself or on the adjacent wall of any such
means having been used. Mrs. B. could not remember in what part
of the room Alice was standing during the phenomenon ; and Miss K.
and Mrs. B. assigned different positions to Mrs. B. herself. I think it
not impossible that the whole movement was imaginary.
The visual and auditory phenomena were very curious and
interesting. Mrs. B and Miss K. at various times—sometimes together
—heard voices speaking, moans, cries, rappings, footsteps, and loud
noises. Some of these noises—the sounds of articulate sentences, for
instance—were apparently hallucinatory. There were also many visual
hallucinations. Miss K., on two occasions, saw a hand—in one case, on
the glass of a bookcase. Mrs. B., besides the hallucination of a woman's
dress already referred to, saw, when in bed, a brilliant disc of white
light and a dazzling white garment ; she also saw a shadowy black form
on suddenly entering a dark room. She saw, in the middle of the after
noon, a lovely white bird, larger than a dove, gliding across the upper
hall. Going up the stairs shortly after the vision, Mrs. B. saw a
shower of gold and silver flakes. Alice, who accompanied her, saw
them too, and went to fetch the charwoman. The charwoman
" thought it rather pretty, and supposed it was motes." Perhaps
it was.
Alice also recited several experiences of her own, which may,
perhaps, be classed as hallucinations ; she was thumped on the back ;
she felt something push against her in going upstairs ; she heard
moans, voices and other noises ; and once, when lying down on her
bed in the afternoon, she heard the sound of paper scraping on the
wall, and, looking up, saw a coloured ball of paper fall from the ceiling
and disappear in the basin. No such ball could be found.
It should be added that the B. family regard the phenomena as
inexplicable.
Poltergeists. 105
Case XT.
In this case I am precluded from giving full details of the various
incidents. Lest, however, it should be thought that the brief summary
which follows presents an ex parte statement of the circumstances, I am
permitted to say that Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick, who are acquainted
with the case, agree with my general conclusions. The occupants of
the house, which was the scene of these incidents, were a family whom
I will call Z. The family included a grown-up son, Y. Z. The disturb
ances, which were very frequent, and extended with uneven intervals
over a period of about twelve months, began soon after the appearance
in the house of a young lady visitor, Miss Q. The first outbreak lasted
for some weeks, and ceased on the day of Miss Q.'s departure. The
disturbances were striking and various. They included, besides loud
noises, slamming of doors, and sound of footsteps, &c., frequent physical
movements, such as the displacement of furniture, occasional breakage
of crockery, the throwing about of boots, toilet necessaries, and articles
of clothing.
We have been furnished with a long series of letters and documents
written by members of the family, minutely describing the earlier dis
turbances. I have analysed the record of the events which took place
during Miss Q.'s first visit. I find that there were sixty-six disturb
ances involving movements of material objects during the period of a
fortnight. On thirty-four of the sixty-six occasions, Y. Z. and Q.,
either together or separately, were the first to arrive on the scene of the
disturbance ; and in most of the thirty-four cases, they were the sole
witnesses that any movements had taken place, the rest of the house
hold being generally contented to accept their report. In the
remaining thirty-two instances, in which the movements were testified
to by other members of the household, the disturbances consisted
sometimes of furniture being found by the servant in the morning
displaced, Y. Z. himself having found it similarly displaced on the
previous evening and having, according to his own statement, replaced
it ; in other cases furniture was displaced in rooms which Y. Z. or
Q. had recently passed through ; or objects were thrown from, or from
the direction of, Q.'s bedroom when she was in the room alone. In a
few cases the description of the occurrence is not sufficiently detailed
to enable one to judge of the positions and movements of the persons
concerned. On two occasions only are movements recorded as actually
taking place in the presence of other members of the household. Thus,
on one occasion a small object was thrown across the room, in which
all the household except the servants were seated. It is not stated
that any one saw it in the air. On two or three other occasions move
ments of small objects are reported to have taken place when Y. Z,
106 Frank Podmore.
and Q. were in remote parts of the house. But the evidence for these
movements is by no means clear; and as Y. Z. or Q., and possibly
both, appear to have assisted in drawing up the reports, little reliance
can be placed upon the accounts given. Nothing is reported as■-
taking place when both Q. and Y. Z. were absent from the house—
except a few noises, and the opening of a cupboard door. With
the trifling exceptions mentioned above, nothing seems to have
occurred during the fourteen days which, even as described by the
family, could not readily have been produced by Q. or Y. Z. by very
simple means. ■
Some time after Q.'s departure, the phenomena recommenced. But
they now centred round Y. Z. exclusively, and nothing is recorded which
could not readily have been produced through his agency. As the
phenomena still continued at intervals, various members of the Society
—of whom I was one —went to investigate the case. My own visit was
unfruitful. But one of my cjlleagues, Mr. T., was more fortunate. His
visit happened to coincide with a visit from Miss Q. After Miss Q. had
retired to her room, various articles were thrown from the direction
of her door when no one was watching ; and various small pieces of
furniture were displaced immediately outside her room ; her door waa
heard to open several times and various objects were thrown out. Miss-
Q. professed to have had no hand in these doings, and not even to know
when they took place. Nothing whatever occurred when Mr. T. was
watching the door.
Finally, Q. professed that she was too disturbed to keep in her
room, and went downstairs. Various articles of furniture were then
moved in the ground-floor rooms, some in the immediate vicinity of
Q., others in more remote rooms, to which, however, she could readily
have had access undetected. Similar phenomena were repeated on
the following night. It was observed that in no single instance did
any disturbances take place which could not readily have been produced
by Q. Moreover, certain curious limitations to the phenomena were
observed. Miss Q.'s room had two doors. The one was locked on the
outside through the greater part of the disturbances ; of the other she
herself had the key. Nothing took place outside the locked door ; but
many objects were moved outside the other door. Finally, on the
second night, after many things had been thrown out from the unlocked
door, and many movements had taken place in its vicinity, Miss Q. was
requested to stand close to the locked door. The lights were put out,
and the request was then made that some movement should take place
in the neighbourhood of the other door, i.e., at a distance of some yards
from Q. The investigators waited twenty minutes, but nothing more
took place. Q. left the house the next day, the phenomena ceasing with
her departure.
Poltergeists. 107
One other series of disturbances may perhaps be referred to, since
the manifestations exhibited a marked and most instructive change of
character. When Q. or Y. Z. were staying in the house, the disturb
ances had taken the form of violent banging of doors, displacement of
furniture and throwing about of small objects, generally accompanied
with a good deal of noise. During the period now under consideration,
Y. Z. was away, and Q., though apparently about the house nearly
every day, was not sleeping there ; and the disturbances were of a much
milder type. They consisted, in fact, almost exclusively of the noise
less displacement and stealthy disappearance of small objects, their
hiding place being often discovered by Q. herself.
With one exception, which, it may be suggested, was possibly due
to mal observation on the part of the reporter, there was nothing to
indicate at what time the movements took place, or to forbid the
supposition that they actually occurred in Miss Q.'s presence, though
the fact of the movement was not in some cases discovered for hours
or days afterwards.
After these occurrences, the phenomena ceased almost entirely, and
did not recommence until some months later, when there were again
a few disturbances of the same general character, i.e., movements of
furniture, and throwing about of small objects in the immediate
neighbourhood of Y. Z. (Q. was not at that time in the house.)
From first to last, with a few insignificant exceptions, the whole
of the disturbances could readily have been produced by Miss Q.
or Y. Z., acting sometimes singly and sometimes in concert. The
belief of the Z. family and their friends that they were not so
produced rests almost exclusively on their conviction of the good
faith of Miss Q. and of Y. Z.
Mr. T. writes :—
The disturbances (about 70 ?) which occurred while I was in the house
could all have been done by Miss Q. or Y. Z.—and that without any
particular skill or artifice—but as I obtained no direct evidence as to how
they were produced, I have no belief one way or the other. If genuine,
they simply rest on the word of those persons. If fraudulent, I would
suggest that they probably grew from an undesigned beginning into a hoax,
exciting to the youthful authors, whose success encouraged them to push it
as far as possible, regardless of the serious trouble and worry to Mrs. Z.
It may be added that, so far as I am aware, no signs of
abnormality have been detected in either of these two persons ; and
that, on the assumption that they were the authors of these disturb
ances, no adequate motive has been suggested for their conduct,
unless, indeed, the alleged desire of Y. Z. to transport the family to
a more congenial neighbourhood can be held to constitute such a
motive.
108 Frank Podmore.
These eleven cases are the only instances in which we have full
reports of personal investigation by representatives of the Society
since its foundation in 1882. Other cases have indeed from time to
time been brought to our notice, and enquiries have in some cases been
made, but no report has been presented to the Society. Accounts
have been sent to us, however, of a few other cases, in which fraud has
been detected or inferred with some degree of probability. Thus a lady
writes to us from Bournemouth, in November, 1889, that a fortnight
after the appearance in her house—a small private boarding-house—
of a new cook, disturbances of various kinds took place. Bells were
mysteriously rung ; a heavy cellar-grating was several times thrown
down ; a leg of mutton made its appearance in inappropriate situations ;
the kitchen clock stopped ; bedsteads, a chest of drawers, tin cans, a
waste paper basket, and other articles of furniture were repeatedly
displaced. The servants' bedrooms, in particular, were the scene of
many disturbances. This state of things continued for a week.
During ail this time the lady of the house and her fellow inmates
took various precautions, and kept a close watch on the servants,
without being able to discover any suspicious movements. Finally, on
the eighth day, their patience was rewarded. One of the daughters of
the house, after having ascertained that the furniture in the upper
rooms was undisturbed and in its proper position, kept a close watch
upon the stairs leading up to the servants' quarters. Looking through
a keyhole she saw the new cook, Mary, go stealthily upstairs, and
heard various movements in the room overhead. When Mary had
retreated, Miss Lucy B. went upstairs and found the furniture
disarranged in precisely the same way as it had been many times
before during the previous week. Asked whether she had been
upstairs during the morning, Mary said no. She further denied all
knowledge of the whereabouts of a key belonging to a bedroom door
which had been found in the course of the day to be locked. Under a
threat of police, however, she revealed the hiding-place of the key.
Mrs. B. states that it was never discovered by what means Mary
succeeded in ringing the bells without detection. Mary is described
as a girl of about 17 ; very pretty, pleasant and quiet in manner and
speech. In the next case, also, a servant who is described "as rather
smarter and sharper than the average country girl," was caught in the
act of causing disturbances.
Mr. James Gardner writes to us :—
January 25th, 1896.
In reply to your letter respecting noises at Edgeworth Rectory, I shall be
pleased to tell you all I know, although it must be nearly 20 years ago. Mr.
and Mrs. Shaw were away from home, and during their absence strange
noises, such as scraping and moaning, were heard at the Rectory, which
Poltergeists. 109
frightened the servants in the house, and they told the gardener, who stayed
in the house the next night and was equally puzzled as to cause of noise. The
next night when the policeman came round on his beat, he was told of it, and
they searched inside and out the house with no result. As you may easily
imagine, the story of a ghost at the Rectory soon spread over the little village,
and not a few believed it. I was living very near the Rectory at the time,
and Mr. Shaw was most kind to me, so I told the confidential servant who
was left in charge that I would stay a night in the house and try and solve
the mystery ; which I did by secreting myself where I had a chance of looking
into the bedroom of a fresh servant that had recently been taken into the
house, uid by means of a dark lantern suddenly flashed on the girl when the
noises commenced, I was quite satisfied that she was the author of them,
and told Mrs. Shaw so when she returned home. The girl was started at
once, and the house was perfectly quiet afterwards.
In a later letter Mr. Gardner explains that he saw the girl
striking the wall with her hand, just after the old housekeeper had
pronounced her to be fast asleep. He adds that he thinks some of the
noises heard were probably produced by the aid of some instrument in
her mouth.
We have also three cases strongly resembling in their details the Cock
Lane case, reported within the last 10 years from Cradock, South
Australia, East Lothian, and Perth respectively. In each case the only
phenomena were raps. The raps occurred only when the medium— a
little girl in each case —was in bed, and ceased altogether when both
the girl's hands were under observation. In one case the medical man
who reported the case to us states that no rapping was ever heard
when the girl's hands were kept above the bedclothes : and that a
board was indispensable. In another case the raps would only occur
when the lights were turned out, and even under these conditions
failed to manifest when the girl was placed in a hammock. In the
third case—reported to us by the Rev. Robert Nicol, of Perth—a
witness is stated to have seen the movements of the girl's arm under
the bedclothes during the occurrence of raps, which appeared to proceed
from a part of the wall within reach of her right hand under cover of
the clothes. In none of the three cases is there evidence that any
sounds were heard which were beyond the girl's power to produce by
ordinary means.
It is noteworthy that in two out of the three cases, as well in the
case which follows, the child's parents appear to have connived at the
trickery.
In the next case our informant is General Pitt Rivers, who writes
on November 16th, 1886 ;—
Rushmore, Salisbury.
There is absolutely nothing to investigate in the Woodcuts imposture. I
was asked by the man N., who has since been turned off for misconduct, to
110 Frank Podmore.
go and investigate the rapping in his house. I have no doubt he thought it
would be an advertisement. Finding that all the people about were agog
with this ghost, I went, and Mrs. Rivers and myself, and several others,
went up into the room. I said, " now let us hear some rapping," and the
father said, " You must all go out of the room except the girl [his daughter],
and must stand so that no one can see into the room," so I complied. The
girl asked some stupid question in the room, and immediately there were
loud raps ; this was repeated once or twice. I then said to the girl, " Now
stand at the door where I can see you," and she did so. No raps. I then
said, " It is evident there will be no raps unless you are in the room by
yourself out of sight." So I paced across the room from the door, and
found it six and a-half short paces, and told the girl to take three paces into
the room and stand there, where I knew she could touch nothing. I made
her pace it before me to make sure that she understood. "Now," I said,
"you must stand there and not move, and ask your questions and hear
your raps from that spot," and T then went downstairs to the bottom
of the stairs where I was told to stand. I heard her take three paces,
then a very slight movement, and after that three or four loud raps.
I stepped up the stairs two pair at a time, and found her off her post.
Meanwhile Mrs. Rivers, instead of going downstairs with the others, had put
herself, unknown to the girl, in the opposite room where she could see the
girl plainly. She saw her, after taking the three paces, look over her shoulder
towards the door, then run quickly, and give the three loud raps on the back
board of the bed. Mrs. R. then came out and told the girl what she had seen.
She immediately burst into tears, put her apron over her face and said,
crying, "I only knocked to see if he was coming." I then knocked on the
bed myself, where she had knocked, and found it made exactly the same
noise that we had heard downstairs. I have told the police that if anything
was done to make it an indictable offence, Mrs. R. and myself would give
evidence, but the man is careful, charges nothing, and only receives gifts to
the extent of three and four shillings a day from sympathising idiots.
A. Pitt Rivers.
Reverting now to the 11 cases investigated by representatives of
the Society, we may note that there is a general resemblance through
out. These cases, pretty obviously, belong to the same class ; and it is
primd facie probable that an explanation which fits one case will fit
all. An exception should perhaps be made in case IX., since it seems
doubtful whether any one was deceived by the manifestations in this
case except the lady of the house. But in the other cases most of those
who witnessed the disturbances, whether inmates of the house or
neighbours, appear to have regarded them as inexplicable.
Now the only explanation for which we have valid evidence at all
is trickery. Trickery was actually detected by one or more witnesses
in four cases (II., IV., V., VIII.). In two of these cases (II. and
IV.) and in case IX., there was a confession of trickery. There
is, therefore, strong ground for believing in trickery as the true and
Poltergeists. Ill
sufficient explanation in all these 11 cases. In the first place we
may note that the phenomena described in the Wem and Ham cases
for instance (II. and VIII.) were primd facie as inexplicable as
those testified to in other instances. But in these two cases we
know that trickery was employed. It is to be noted also that in
the Wem case the child was so skilful that though she was under the
close observation of several pairs of eyes in Dr. Corke's house, and
though she brought off many " phenomena," it was not until the fifth
day that she was actually detected in her performances, and then only
through a surreptitious entry on the theatre. In the Ham case Mr.
Westlake was able to detect the actual movements of the child only
when the repetition of the performance taught him what to look for, and
Mr. Bennett, despite his strong suspicions, failed altogether to obtain
conclusive proof of fraud. And if we remember how many and how
great were the errors in observation demonstrated by Dr. Hodgson in
the records given by educated persons of stances with Mr. Davey, we
shall find it not unreasonable to infer, even when direct evidence is
wanting, like errors in the testimony, mostly of uneducated persons,
now under consideration. We have some indirect proof of the justice
of this inference. It will be noted that in cases such as VI., IX.,
X. and XI., where the witnesses were for the most part educated
persons, and the record in some instances almost contemporaneous
with the event, it is not difficult to explain all that took place—with
a few trifling exceptions—as due to trickery. The proof of abnormal
agency in these cases rests almost entirely on moral considerations.
But in cases like I., II., III., and VII., where the chief witnesses
were persons of limited education, the phenomena attested are of
a much more surprising kind ; and at Worksop and Durweston
especially, where the witnesses were not only imperfectly educated,
but did not give their testimony until some weeks after the event,
the things described seem wholly inexplicable by normal agencies.
[Contrast, for instance, Mr. Anderson's and Mr. Newman's evidence
in the Durweston case, p. 93 and 91].
One other feature in these records should be noticed in this connec
tion. Many of the witnesses described the articles as moving slowly
through the air, or exhibiting some peculiarity of flight. (See my
report on the Worksop case, also case VII.). Similar peculiarities are
noted by Mr. Bristow {Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VII., pp. 383-394).
In describing the movement of pieces of wood in a carpenter's shop,
he writes of them as now moving in a straight line and striking a door
" noiselessly as a feather," and again " as though borne along on
gently heaving waves." In a case which was investigated by one of
our corresponding members, Herr Hans Natge, an account of which
was published in Berlin in 1889, under the title Der Spuk von Resau,
112 Frank Podmore.
a similar phenomenon is described by the witnesses. Thus a frying part
in the air is described as having the appearance not of a thing thrown,
but of a thing flying ; and the witnesses are said to have noticed the
absence of any curve of projection in the articles. In default of any
sufficient evidence that the disturbances in question were due to-
abnormal agency, I am disposed to explain the appearance of moving
slowly or flying as a sensory illusion, conditioned by the excited state
of the percipients.
But if the assumption of errors of observation of various kinds in
these records is necessarily supported by little direct evidence, we have
proofs of serious errors of memory. Thus, in several instances we find
that the various witnesses to a phenomenon differed amongst themselves
as to the position, or even the presence or absence of particular persons
or failed to mention at all the whereabouts of the presumed agent ; or
imagined that they had been present at manifestations of which—
according to other witnesses—they knew only by hearsay. (See for
instance the discussion on cases I., III., VI., XI.). There is an
account contributed to our records by the Rev. H. H. Jeaffreson of
movements of small objects, which may perhaps be accounted for by
occasional lapses of memory of a rather unusual kind.
Mr. Jeaffreson writes on May 27th, 1883 :—
I do not know when we first began to notice anything strange about the
house, but after no very long time we began to miss little things of no value
(and therefore not likely to have been stolen), which mostly, though not
invariably, were found in places where a few minutes before we had searched
for them. This took place in every part of the house, but chiefly in my
study. There I had a small round table (perhaps 30in. in diameter), which
was seldom used for anything but a cup of coffee, or a few books when I was
sorting them for the shelves. For the most part this table was clear, and
therefore there was no chance of small articles being covered up accidentally,
and as accidentally discovered. I do not think that things disappeared more
from this table than any other ; but the circumstances I have mentioned
made the occurrence more conspicuous in the case of this table and less open
to accident.
If I put down, say, a bunch of keys on this table, they frequently
disappeared. At first I used to search for them in vain, and come back to-
find them where I thought I had placed them, on the little table. At last,
when we missed anything from the place where we thought we had placed it,
we (my wife and I) used to sit still, and after a time, the things would usually
reappear. We never saw any article coming or going. The length of time
varied. Perhaps the longest interval was in the case of a bracelet, which
disappeared one night as my wife was dressing for a party, and reappeared
about the same time the next night lying in the middle of a doorway through
which we had passed many times, and in which I had carefully searched with
a candle the first night, and the servants the next morning.
Poltergeists. 113
Mr. Jeaffreson adds, " similar removals have in our opinion taken
place since we left H. in the houses we have since occupied, but less
frequently and less conspicuously."
Of the errors of narration perpetrated by journalists in search of
sensational copy (see cases II. and V.), it is hardly necessary to
speak, except to point out that the dramatic and exaggerated accounts
of the disturbances given in the newspapers inevitably react upon the
memories of those who read them, and so tend still further to vitiate
testimony.
But it is much easier to infer that trickery has been practised in
these cases than to find a plausible motive for trickery. In one or two
instances, indeed, intelligible motives have been suggested for the
fraud. (See, for instance, cases V. and XI., and the account given
by General Pitt Rivers on p. 109). But in most cases it is difficult to
conceive that any adequate or even rational end was aimed at by the
authors of the disturbance. A considerable amount of labour,
•extending in some cases over months or years, has been voluntarily
undertaken by the agent ; much annoyance, expense, and occasionally
severe distress has been inflicted on other persons; and a lively sensation
has been caused in the neighbourhood. But there has been apparently
no revenge to satisfy, and such fame as lies in the mouths of rustics,
and in occasional paragraphs in provincial newspapers, would hardly
constitute for normal persons—even for children—a sufficient recom
pense for the labour incurred. And yet it is, in fact, in the desire to
cause a sensation that the working motive is probably to be found.
The reader must have been struck by the fact that the agent—or
central figure—in the great majority of the cases quoted is a young
girl, roughly between the ages of 12 and 16, though one or two may
have been a little older. The agent in each of the six cases last cited
was a young girl ; and in the 1 1 cases given at length, a young girl
appears in eight cases and a young boy in three (in one of which
— case IV.— he is apparently associated with his young sister). But
a further peculiarity is to be noted beside the youth of the agents, to
wit, their mental and physical abnormality. In the Worksop case,
the presumed agent was a half-witted girl, child of an imbecile mother.
In the Wem case, Emma Davies was stated by her mother to be
subject to fits. In the Bramford case, the girl appears to have suffered
from attacks of hysterical blindness. In cases VI. and VIII., the girl
was deformed, in case VII. hysterical and consumptive. In case IX.
the boy was delicate and liable to attacks of spontaneous somnam
bulism ; and in case X. the girl is delicate and has outgrown her
strength. Thus in eight out of the 11 cases we have evidence of
ill-health or abnormality more or less pronounced. This evidence is
strengthened if we accept the agent's own testimony for the occurrence
i
114 Frank Podmore.
of hallucinations. Thus, in cases II., III., IV., VI., VII. and X., the
agent was the subject of hallucinations, which in case VI. were frequent
and prolonged.
It may be suggested then that, in the majority of these cases, the
real motive which impelled these children to a long series of apparently
meaningless acts of mischief, was the excessive love of notoriety which
is occasionally associated with other morbid conditions, especially in
young girls. Case XI., on this view, remains unaccounted for, since
the agents in this instance were educated adults, apparently free from
morbid influences.
To sum up : (1) In the eleven cases which we have investigated in
detail, direct proofs of trickery have been obtained in several instances.
(2) Where the phenomena have been recorded shortly after their
occurrence by educated persons, trickery is found—moral considerations
apart—to be an adequate explanation. (3) Where the phenomena have
been described by illiterate persons, or recorded some time after the
event, this explanation becomes difficult ; and the difficulty is found to,
increase directly with the length of the interval and inversely with the
education of the witness. (4) But these eleven cases are fairly
representative of their class. A certain number of such cases are
brought to our notice each year. These eleven cases were selected for
investigation, mainly because from the accounts in the press, or from
reports received from trustworthy private sources, they seemed to
present a primdJacie case for abnormal agency. It is difficult to resist
the conclusion that if the opportunity had been given to us, with the
experience which we have now obtained, to undertake an equally full
and searching inquiry into the cases of this kind which figure so largely
in the literature of the subject, the evidence for abnormal agency
would have been found as little calculated to convince. Take, for
instance, the movement of pieces of wood in a carpenter's shop
already referred to. It is one of the most striking cases ever published,
and as described by an honest and intelligent witness, the phenomena
seem perfectly inexplicable. But the account printed at length in the
Proceedings (Vol. VII., p. 383), was written 42 years after the events
recorded. It is, indeed, based on some earlier notes ; but these notes
themselves were not committed to writing until five years after the
events. That some movements of the kind described did occur in
1849 we can well believe ; indeed we have corroboration of the fact
from at least one other living witness. But the most we seem entitled
to conclude from their reports is that Mr. Bristow and his friends did
not at the time discover how the movements were caused, and that
their later recollections afford us no clue.
The case given in the same volume, pp. 160-173, is evidentially
stronger, inasmuch as the events were recorded within a few weeks or
Poltergeists. 115
days of their occurrence. But it will be observed in this case that
much of the evidence on which the narrator relies is second-hand ; that
we have practically only one account of the incidents, since Mrs. K., the
housekeeper, merely confirms the account written by the master of the
house, and does not give an independent version . that the disturbances
were unquestionably connected with the presence of a young and new
servant, and ceased when she left the house temporarily ; and that this
young servant became delirious towards the end of the manifestations.
We have only to assume —what experience entitles us to assume
—slight defects of observation on the part of the witnesses, and slight
errors on the part of the narrator, to place the case on the level of the
eleven which we have already investigated. It is suggested that to
establish even a primd facie case for abnormal agency in such cases,
we need evidence of quite another kind from any which has yet been
brought forward.
Before the subject is dismissed, attention may be directed to two
points. The first is that the moral presumption, upon which the
evidence for abnormal physical phenomena occurring in the presence
of private persons mainly depends, is seriously weakened by this
demonstration of frequent, elaborate and long-continued trickery,
practised occasionally even by educated persons, without apparent
recompense or adequate motive. The second point is that genuine
hallucinations may apparently be associated with fraudulent physical
phenomena. Leaving on one side the hallucinations alleged to have
been experienced by the agents in many of these cases—though these
are not without interest—we find hallucinations reported by the
witnesses in several instances. Thus at Ham, case IX., one witness
is recorded to have seen a woman's face in the oven ; and in cases
VI. and X. several credible witnesses give accounts of hallucinatory
experiences. Many of the auditory experiences, and at least two of
the visual hallucinations, appear to have been collective.
These facts are of special interest in their bearing on the phenomena
of collective hallucination, and on the genesis of hallucinatory-
disturbances—auditory and visual—in so-called " haunted houses."
I 2
116 Miss Alice Johnson.
V.
A CASE OF INFORMATION SUPERNORMALLY
ACQUIRED.
By Miss Alice Johnson.
I have been asked by Professor Sidgwick to put together and
comment on the evidence in the case here printed, since it seems
of sufficient interest to be worth discussing at somewhat greater
length than is usually, in these Proceedings, afforded to single cases.
The most important and instructive details have only been brought
out, as will be seen, by prolonged and careful enquiry on the part of
the Russian investigators to whom we are indebted for the collection
of the evidence. The printed selections from their correspondence will
give some idea of the amount of labour they have spent on the
investigation. Most of the information was obtained through the
kindness of Mr. Joseph Kronhelm, while the energy and perseverance
of Mr. M. Petrovo-Solovovo— whose name is well-known to all
members of the S.P.R.—in collecting and transcribing it, has made
the full presentation of the case possible.
The main incidents are given in the following narrative,—a
translation of a letter from Mr. Kronhelm in the Revue Spirite for
July, 1895.
June 10th, 1895.
. . . The following is an account of an apparition seen by my
engineer, Mr. Vincent Idanowicz, here at Creczelowka, District Gajsin,
Podolia, Russia.
On November 10th, 1894, Mr. Idanowicz went to Gajsin to order a fur
cloak from the tailor, Izloma Sierota. While he was looking at the material,
Sierota showed him an almost new fur cloak, and induced him to purchase
it at the price of forty-five roubles, saying that he had bought it from a
Mr. Lassota. Mr. Idanowicz agreed to take the cloak. . . . He returned
home pleased with his bargain, went to bed and slept profoundly. (Mr.
Idanowicz and his brother Ivan occupy a room on my premises.) After
midnight he was awakened by a gentleman dressed in black. He was not
alarmed in any way, but considerably surprised to see a man whom he did
not know and had never seen before, knowing, besides, that the room
door was locked, and he asked, " Who are you, sir, and what do you want ? "
The apparition replied, "lam called Wiszniecoski, and I come to advise
you to return, as quickly as possible, this fur which you have just bought
from Izloma Sierota for forty-five roubles, since it did not belong to Mr.
Lassota, but to a judge at Gajsin, who has just died of phthisis. The fur is
A Case of Information Supernormally Acquired. 117
infected by phthisic bacilli." Thereupon the vision disappeared, and Mr.
Idanowicz got up in order to see how Mr. Wiszniecoski could have got out,
as the only entrance to the room was double-locked as usual. Understanding
nothing of what he had seen and believing it to be a hallucination —all the
more because his brother, who had awakened after the apparition had
vanished and had heard and seen nothing, laughed at him—Mr. Idanowicz
went to bed again and next day resumed his ordinary work, without saying
a word to any one about what he had seen and heard. On the following
night, the two brothers retired to bed as usual, but, as they could not
sleep, they talked over their affairs, and chiefly about Mr. Vincent's fiancee
and her family. Suddenly they heard steps approaching their chamber, and
the door, which was locked, opened smartly. Greatly astonished, they saw
a gentleman in black enter, who said to them, ' ' You are both awake. Well,
this time, Mr. Vincent, you will not say that my appearance yesterday was
a hallucination. I come, therefore, to repeat to you : Go and ask Mr.
Kronhelm to allow you to go to Gajsin to-morrow, and return the fur to
Izloma Sierota, who is deceiving you in saying that it belonged to Mr.
Lassota. I repeat that it belonged to a judge, who died of phthisis at
Gajsin. It is infected with phthisic bacilli. I was a Government official at
Lipowice (in the Kieff district), and died there in 1892 ; but as my mission
is to watch over you, I warn you of what will happen if you do not follow
my advice." So saying, the apparition vanished.
At five o'clock the same morning I was awakened by my valet, who
said that the Idanowiczes insisted on seeing me, having an urgent affair to
communicate ; I got up and saw the two brothers, pale and frightened, and
they told me the story of the apparition. Being myself a convinced
Spiritualist, ... I decided to go with Mr. Vincent Idanowicz to
Gajsin, in order to examine into the assertions made by the "guardian
angel," as Mr. Idanowicz justly calls him.
The Jew Sierota denied it flatly and maintained that what he had said
about buying the cloak from Mr. Lassota was strictly accurate. I then
called on the judge at Gajsin, who confirmed the statement that his
predecessor had died of phthisis, but knew nothing about his effects, which
had probably been taken possession of by his heirs. Finally, he advised me
to consult the second-hand dealer, Boruch Fonkonogi ; the latter told me
that he had bought all the effects of the late judge, except a fur cloak, which
had been bought by Izloma Sierota. We showed him the fur cloak and he
recognised it at once and said that he was ready to swear to the truth of
what he affirmed.
. .**••
Joseph de Kronhelm.
Mr. Solovovo wrote to Mr. Kronhelm, asking him for further
particulars of the case, and forwarded to Professor Sidgwick the reply
received, with his own translation of it, part of which is here printed.
Tchetcheliovka, August 3rd/15th, 1895.
Sir,—Much to my regret it is but with one half of your request that I
am able to comply. I have not got all the proofs you are asking for of the
reality of the apparition of the late Wischnevsky's ghost to Mr. Zdanovitch ;
118 Miss Alice Johnson.
as for making inquiries, it would be for me a great inconvenience, owing
to the absence of the persons required. I am able to give a satisfactory
reply only to the first point of your letter, as I append to this letter Mr.
Zdanovitch's attestation of the truth of the fact he had communicated to me,
viz., as to his having bought of Sirota a fur cloak, and as to the ghost of the
deceased Wischnevsky having appeared to him twice ; also a statement by
Zdanovitch's brother that he really saw one night a man who appeared
to him through a closed door and called himself Wischnevsky. .
—I am, etc., j Kronhelm.
The statements enclosed by Mr. Kronhelm were also forwarded to
Professor Sidgwick. Mr. Solovovo translates them as follows :—■
Attestation.
Tchetcheliovka, August M/16th, 1895.
The fact of my having bought of the Jew Schlioma Sirota a fur cloak and
of the ghost of the deceased Wischnevsky having appeared to me twice in
order to warn me against the danger of catching consumption is absolutely
true. I certify its truth with my signature.
Vincent Osipovitch Zdanovitch.
Statement.
Tchetcheliovka, August Uh/lGth, 1895.
When spending the night in the same room with my brother Vincent
Zdanovitch on the 12th/24th of November, 1894, I really saw, at 11 p.m., a
man come in, dressed in black, who called himself Wischnevsky, and talked
to my brother about his giving away the fur cloak he had bought of Sirota.
The door was locked, so that it was impossible for a living man to come into
the room without unlocking the door. I append my signature.
Ivan Osipovitch Zdanovitch.
N.B. — The names "Tchetcheliovka" and "Zdanovitch" may also be
written " Czeczelowka " and "Zdanowicz" if we adopt the Polish
orthography. M p g
Mr. Kronhelm in the letter above quoted had confused " Wisch
nevsky " with the deceased owner of the fur cloak, although in his
original narrative it -seemed clear that they were two distinct persons,
and a good deal of correspondence took place before this mistake was
cleared up. In a letter written on November 17th/29th, 1895, Mr.
Solovovo informed us that Mr. Zdanovitch's attestation applied to the
narrative given in the Revue Spirite, in which, as he remarked, though
it was not expressly stated, it was certainly implied that Mr.
Zdanovitch was not acquainted either with Wischnevsky or the
deceased judge. Mr. Solovovo had meanwhile written to Lipovetz
(the town where Wischnevsky was stated to have died—spelt
'. Lipowice " in the Revue Spirite) to make enquiries, but had received
A Case of Information SwpernormaUy Acquired. 119
a reply that no Government official of that name had died there at the
date mentioned. He then wrote again to Mr. Kronhelm and his next
letter contains further information.
December 2dth/January 7th [1896].
Dear Mr. Sidgwick,—It gives me much pleasure to be at last able to send
you a good deal of additional evidence concerning the Wischnevsky case. I
received Mr. Kronhelm's letter on December 21st (January 2nd), but owing
to an attack of influenza, was unable to translate its contents at once.
L You will perceive on reading Mr. Kronhelm's letter that one
particularly puzzling point in the whole story has at last been cleared up.
We now know that Wischnevsky and the proprietor of the fur cloak or
overcoat were not one and the same person ; Mr. K. states this most
categorically. I suppose in his former letter to me he had merely mixed up
two similar names, —Wischnevsky and Nevsky. At any rate there is no
such confusion in the printed narrative.
2. The name of the locality where W. died, stated to be " Lipowice "
in the Bevue Spirite, appears to be now " Ilyintzy " or " Lintzy " (the
latter being the popular form) ; this [is] in accordance with Mr. Kronhelm's
first letter to me. The Bevue Spirite article is full of such extraordinary
misprints that we may well suppose " Lipowice " to have been one of them.
Moreover, almost every name cited admits of at least two ways of being
written.1 Thus Mr. Kronhelm spells the name of his estate, " Czeczelowka,"
whilst I have adopted for it the form " Tchetcheliovka," which is more
correct so far as pronunciation is concerned. Besides, as it now appears,
Mr. Kronhelm has never had much information about Wischnevsky, and
Mr. Zdanovitch (alias Zdanowicz or Sdanowitsch) none at all before the
apparition ; both may therefore have confounded the little-known name
" Lintzy " with the much better known "Lipowice" or " Lipovetz " in the
same province (Kieff).
I therefore think that we need not trouble ourselves about these two
points. And as you asked me last time my opinion of Mr. Kronhelm, I may
say now that—so far as one may judge him by his letters—he must be a
thoroughly trustworthy (morally) and painstaking gentleman. His good
faith is for me above doubt.
With regard to the examining magistrate's mortal illness, it is certainly
unfortunate that phthisis is not mentioned as the cause of his death in the
official document. But I think we may safely rely on the priest's evidence.
Last of all, if you think it necessary to have some official document about
Wischnevsky's death, I shall try to get it ; but in that case directly, not
through Mr. Kronhelm. I am afraid, however, it will be difficult, as we
know so little about him.
Extract from Mr. Kronhelm's Utter to me (received on December 21st/
January 2nd, "95/'96).-M. P. S.
The fur cloak had not belonged to Wischnevsky (whose ghost twice
appeared), but to the examining magistrate, Nevsky, who died of phthisis at
1 Of course if letters of the Latin alphabet be used.—M.P.S.
120 Miss Alice Johnson.
Gaysin. . . . Nevsky, though called a "judge" iu the Revue Spirite,
was no judge, but an examining magistrate. He lived in the town of
Gaysin, where he died of phthisis. A certificate of his death is recorded in
the registers of the Gaysin Cathedral, of which the Very Rev.1 Nicander
Mikhnevitch is at present the overseer ; he must be applied to for an official
statement. I enclose, however, with this an extract from these church
registers with the Very Rev. Mikhnevitch's signature.
I enclose with this Boruch Tonkonogy's original attestation as to the fur
cloak having belonged to Nevsky.
Messrs. Zdanovitch themselves knew positively nothing about Wisch-
nevsky. The statements made by the ghost were also unknown to them.
It is true that a certain Wischnevsky had been known to Mr. Domansky, my
steward, who has become related to Mr. Zdanovitch (Z. married D.'s sister
last year). As for myself, the information I have about Wischnevsky is very
scanty. He is said to have lived at Ilyintzy (or, as the people say, Lintzy),
Government of Kieff, and to have served in the Excise Department or to
have been a private solicitor. I have been unable to collect more
information. . . .
J. Kronhelm.
Translation of tlie documents annexed to Mr. Kronhelm's letter.
(1)
The overcoat which Zdanovitch bought of the Jew Schlioma Sirota
had really belonged to Nevsky, who died of phthisis ; and to this I append
my signature.
BORUCh ToNKONOQy.
(2)
Granov, December 12th.
I was really acquainted with Mr. Wischnevsky. I made his acquaintance
at Zaslav, Government of Volhynia, and Mr. Wischnevsky told me he served
[in some official institution] at Ilyintzy, Government of Kieff.—I append my
signature.
Alexander Domansky.
(3)
Gaysin, December l<tthl28th, 1895.
Most Honourable Joseph Valentinovitch,-—It is very pleasant to
know that there are in the district of Gaysin persons so highly educated as
to carry on a correspondence for scientific purposes with Paris and London.
I send you an extract from the Cathedral registers concerning Nevsky's
death, who before dying had spent together with his wife two or three
months at Algiers,—a French colony.
"On June 28th [July 10th], 1893, there died of an aneurism, and was
buried on the 30th [12th] of the same month in the Gaysin churchyard the
examining magistrate of the first district, Alexander Ivanovitch Nevsky,
aged 32."
1 Archpriest.—M.P.S.
2 Mr. Kronhelm's patronymic name.—M.P.S.
A Case of Information Supernormally Acquired. 121
In fact, however, he died of consumption ; blood began to flow out of
his throat.—Accept, etc.
Very Rev. Nicander Mikhnevitch.
[The words in brackets are mine. —M.P.S.]
The only point now remaining on which further evidence seemed
required was the death of Mr. Wischnevsky, and Mr. Solovovo
continued his exertions in this direction with, as will be seen, a
somewhat surprising result. He writes :—
January 6th/18th, 1896.
Dear Mr. Sidgwick,—I wrote about a week ago to the police authorities
at Lipovetz, Kieff, asking for information about Wischnevsky's death, and
will probably get a reply before long.
I have ascertained that Ilintzy, where W. is said to have died, is situated
very near the town of Lipovetz—something like twelve English miles, I
think ; so that there is no discrepancy on this point between the printed
narrative and Mr. Kronhelm's present statements.
M. Petrovo-Solovovo.
St. Petersburg, January 21th/February Mh [1896].
Dear Mr. Sidgwick,—It is only to-day that I am in receipt of an
official reply from the police authorities of Lipovetz, Government of Kieff,
stating that a certain N. F. Wischnevsky, a private solicitor, is living at
present at Ilintzy, district of Lipovetz, and that there has been at Ilintzy no
other person of the same name.
I shall write to this Mr. Wischnevsky, stating the case in full, etc. , and
will also inform Mr. Kronhelm of this strange discovery. I doubt, however,
whether Mr. Wischnevsky will be able to clear up the matter.
If you can suggest anything else, I shall comply at once with your
advice.
M. Petrovo-Solovovo.
The next letters give the results of Mr. Solovovo's correspondence
with Mr. Wischnevsky, and some further remarks by Mr. Kronhelm.
38, Sergievskaia, St. Petersburg, February ith/16th [1896].
Dear Mr. Sidgwick,—I have received to-day an answer from Mr.
Wischnevsky (whom we had supposed to be dead !) : and I am sorry to say
that his letter cannot throw any light on the subject of our inquiry.
He says that he has lived for 25 years at Ilintzy ; and that during this
interval two persons of the name of Wischnevsky1 did live there too ; but
one of them left Ilintzy 20 years ago, and the other lives at present at
Winnitza, Podolia. He also says there certainly was no Wischnevsky at
Lipovetz in 1892.
He is not acquainted either with Mr. Kronhelm or with Mr. Zdanovitch.
He met a Mr. Domansky thirty years ago, but it was not at Zaslav, since he
1 Not a very uncommon name in general.—M.P.S.
122 Miss Alice Johnson.
has not been there since 1853 ; and he lived then at Jitomiz. As you see, the
identity of this Domansky with Mr. Zdanovitch's brother-in-law is doubtful.
He has never heard the story before, etc.
I will write again as soon as I receive a reply from Mr. Kronhelm. In
my opinion, however, the absence of any positive information about the
Wischnevsky of Mr. Kronhelm's narrative does not invalidate the case.
M. Petrovo-Solovovo.
St. Petersburg, March 9th/21st [1896].
Dear Mr. Sidgwick,—I have at last received a reply from Mr.
Kronhelm, who now lives at Kieff, which explains why he did not reply to
me before. He says, '' I have several times written to Lipovetz, but have
not learned anything ; as I lived far from Lipovetz, I did not go there
myself in order to find out the above-mentioned Wischnevsky, but only
learnt certain details from a former inhabitant of Lipovetz, M. A. A.
Domansky [which details we possess already]. ... I did all I could to
find out the truth."
Mr. Kronhelm further says there is nothing extraordinary in the fact
that there lives now at Lintzy a Mr. Wischnevsky, seeing that the name is
very common in the south of Russia, and is borne both by Catholics and
by members of the Orthodox Church. He will ascertain, he says, to what
Catholic parish Lipovetz belongs, and will then ask a Catholic priest to clear
up the matter. Mr. Vincent Zdanovitch and his brother are no more in
Mr. Kronhelm's service, having left him at Christmas. He has given V. Z.
a certificate of good behaviour, but has not heard from him and his brother
Bince.
M. Petrovo-Solovovo.
Perhaps the most remarkable feature in this curious case is the
mixture of truth and probable falsehood in the information given by
the apparition. The percipient is instructed on two quite distinct
subjects:—(1) the history of the cloak,—afterwards fully verified;
and (2) the supposed history of the phantasmal " Wischnevsky,"
who, according to the evidence in our possession, is most probably a
purely fictitious personage.
With regard to the first subject,—the history of the cloak,—three
possible sources of the information may be suggested. First, it may
have come from the deceased owner of the cloak. This hypothesis
does not seem to have occurred to any of the persons concerned, and
indeed has little to recommend it. If it was the magistrate Nevsky
who was communicating, why did he give a wrong name and address 1
His words would have carried greater weight if he had announced
himself frankly as the owner of the cloak.
The second hypothesis is that the information was obtained
through some kind of clairvoyance on the part of Mr. Zdanovitch.
It may have been telepathic clairvoyance, the agent being the Jew
dealer, whose guilty conscience—shown apparently by his telling a
A Case of Information Supernormally Acquired. 123
falsehood about the cloak—may have been the exciting cause of the
telepathic impact. Two cases of veridical, possibly telepathic, im
pressions with regard to criminal actions of a more serious kind are
given by Mrs. McCall Black in the Journal. S.P.R., Vol. V., pp. 270
and 272. In the first, Mrs. Black, discovering her purse stolen, had
an impression that it had been taken by a certain person, whom she
had no reason for suspecting, and that it was then in a certain place.
Immediate search was made and the purse found. On another
occasion, after a burglary in her house, she dreamt that two persons
were concerned in it, one known to her and the other not, and direc
tions were given how to treat each of them. She was told the name and
address of the unknown thief in her dream, and she wrote to him next
day and finally recovered all her property. In another case given in
Mr. Myers' paper on The Subliminal Self in the Proceedings S.P.R.,
Vol. XI., Part XXIX., p. 459, Dr. D. J. Parsons, going to his oflice
with his nephew to consult a book, was prevented by a sudden and
unaccountable impulse from going in himself. His nephew went in
alone and was shot at, but not injured, by a man who was hiding near
by with the intention of murdering Dr. Parsons.
The third hypothesis is that the facts given were subconsciously
known to Mr. Zdanovitch beforehand. It must be remembered that
he lived near the town of Gaysin, to which the deceased magistrate
belonged, and may have been in the habit of going there frequently.
Nevsky, being probably a somewhat important personage in the town,
may have been pointed out to him once or twice, and may then have
been wearing the cloak. He may easily have forgotten this encounter;
but if it ever took place, he might then have noticed some mark on
the cloak by which he afterwards subconsciously recognized it.
Something in the Jew's manner, again, may have led him to suspect
some nefarious dealing. Possibly the subliminal self of the average
half-educated Russian lives in a chronic state of suspicion of the
average Jew.
We have abundant evidence of the superior acuteness of the
subliminal to the supraliminal self, both in making observations and in
drawing conclusions from them, and though this does not explain why the
conclusions should be presented in an elaborate dramatic form rather
than in a plain straightforward manner, there are numerous instances
in which it actually is so,—e.g. the well-known case of "Miss X."'s
recalling the forgotten date of Ptolemy Philadelphus by means of a
crystal-vision of a Jewish Elder at work on the Septuagint
(Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 512), and Professor Hilprecht's dream of the
Assyrian inscription, given above in Professor Newbold's paper (see
ante, p. 14). At the same time, it must be observed that while all
the facts given in Professor Hilprecht's dream could have been deduced
124 Miss Alice Johnson.
from information already in his possession,—although some of it had
been, as was proved, once known to him and subsequently forgotten,—
there is no proof that any of the facts about the cloak had ever been
known to Mr. Zdanovitch, or could have been deduced from anything
within his knowledge. The case merely shares in the weakness inherent
in all cases of apparently supernormal knowledge of past events,—the
difficulty, namely, of completely excluding the explanation suggested.
Even' if this be the true explanation, however, it does not, of course,
account for the apparition having been seen by both the brothers
collectively ; but this point will be dealt with later.
We have next to consider the significance of the personality
"Wischnevsky." Mr. Zdanovitch may possibly have heard through his
future brother-in-law, Mr. Domansky, of the Mr. Wischnevsky1 whom
the latter had met at Zaslav. The town of Gaysin, near which they
lived, is about 34 (English) miles from Lipovetz, near which Wischnevsky
is said to have lived. Zaslav is about 120 miles from Lipovetz, and
the Mr. Wischnevsky whom Mr. Domansky met there told him that he
was a government official at Ilyintzy (or, Lintzy) about 12 miles from
Lipovetz. They appear to have been merely casual acquaintances. It
is assumed at first that the apparition represents this Wischnevsky,
and that he died, as stated, in 1892. One would naturally suppose that
a spirit so well acquainted with the affairs of the Gaysin magistrate
would have at least an equally accurate knowledge of his own name and
former occupation, and the place and date of his death. However, the
police authorities at Lipovetz, who must no doubt know of all the
government officials in the neighbourhood, state that the only person
of this name recently inhabiting Uintzy is still living there, and
there is no ground for connecting this living Wischnevsky with the
apparition, while his identity with the Wischnevsky formerly known
to Mr. Domansky is very doubtful.
We are told, moreover, that Wischnevsky is a very common name
in the south of Russia ; but, since all the facts given about the
phantasmal Wischnevsky are entirely unsupported by the evidence, the
1 Mrs. Verrall writes to me with regard to this case :—
"5, Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge, May lith, [1896],
"One small point occurs to me as favouring your 'third hypothesis,' viz., that
the facts were known subconsciously to the percipient. It is the undoubtedly curious
resemblance in sound between the names of the apparition and the deceased owner.
Had the apparition been what he described himself, I suppose we should have
regarded the resemblance as merely 'odd,' but under the circumstances, ... it
seems to me that if Mr. Vincent Z. did, as you suggest, know subconsciously the
facts about Nevsky, and had heard the name Wischnevsky, it is exceedingly likely
that his subliminal self would give one name while announcing the facts known to the
other person. At least this is the way, as we all know from personal experience, in
which a half-remembered fact connects itself with similar facts or words."
A Case of Information Supernormally Acquired. 125
commonness of the name only reduces still further any force that there
might have been in the " identity test." Wischnevsky, in fact, plays
in the story the part of a hallucinatory "Mrs. Harris," and we are led
seriously to doubt whether there is any such person.
If we now compare this case with the ordinary experiences of
mediums, we find that it almost always appears to them that their
"communications" come from some definite personal source or sources,
and it often seems purely accidental whether the person conceived of
as the source is a real or an imaginary person. There is, so far as I
am aware, no objective evidence whatever of the real existence of
" Phinuit," or of the less well-known " Elvira," described in Dr.
Ermacora's paper in the Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXVIII. (Vol.
XI.), p. 235. On the other hand, the utterances given in Mrs. Piper's
trance constantly refer themselves to definite individuals, while her
" controls " other than Phinuit are occasionally recognised by her
sitters as real persons known to them. The case here under discussion
seems transitional between these cases and the hallucinations of the
ordinary non-mediumistic person, which are generally of a much less
complicated type, affecting one sense only at a time.
Every one, however, is accustomed to meeting with the more
complicated and dramatic element in his dream-conceptions, and
Professor Hilprecht's dream, already referred to, of the Assyrian priest
who explained to him how to decipher the inscription, is a noteworthy
case in point. The conception of the priest arises naturally,—one
might almost say, inevitably—out of the circumstances of the dream.
But while we can see the probable causes at work in his construction,
Wischnevsky seems a purely fancy sketch.
His being represented as a deceased person is another point of
resemblance to the mediumistic type. For in accordance with their
preconceived ideas, mediums constantly regard their "communications"
as coming from such spirits, and the element sometimes obtrudes itself
into the midst of a partially veridical communication. Two instances of
this are given in Mr. Myers' paper on " The Subliminal Consciousness:
Motor Automatism," in the Proceedings S.P.R.,Vol. IX., pp. 65 and 67.
In the first, the medium gives some correct information about an early
friend of the sitter's, but states incorrectly that he is dead at the time.
In the second, after some rather striking statements about the sitter's
deceased father, the medium gives the name, and date and cause of
death—by accident—of a former pupil of his, the name of the clergy
man who preached the funeral sermon, and the text from which he
preached. The names were those of real persons known to the sitter,
and the accident was one which he had feared might take place, but it
had never actually occurred. Later on in the same paper, among the
experiences of " Miss A.," is given the curious case of " John Black "
126 Miss Alice Johnson.
(loc. cit., p. 84), who on his first appearance announces himself as dead,
but is found afterwards to be alive.
There remains one more remarkable feature in the case, viz., that
the apparition was seen and heard by Mr. Zdanovitch's brother as well
as by himself. The impressions of Mr. Ivan Zdanovitch, however,
cannot be considered independent of those of his brother. It was only
after hearing of his brother's experience of the preceding night that he
himself saw the apparition. If he was sufficiently impressionable to
experience anything, it would be likely to take the form already
suggested to him, and accordingly the second experience is hardly
more than a mere repetition of the first. The only additional points
are the statements relating to the former occupation and death of
Wischnevsky, and these are just the details which investigation has
shown to be probably erroneous.
The significance of collective hallucinations is discussed in the
" Report on the Census of Hallucinations," in the Proceedings S.P.R.,
Vol. X., pp. 319-326, where it is maintained that hallucinations,—
whether veridical or falsidical,—may be transmitted from one person
to another by verbal or telepathic suggestion, or by both kinds of
suggestion acting together, and that it is generally unnecessary to
assume any agency external to the minds of the two percipients.
This theory explains the cases where the hallucination represents
some inanimate object or animal, and brings collective hallucinations
under the same category as " simultaneous dreams," such as those
given in Phantasm,!! of the Living, Vol. I., pp. 314 to 316, or that
narrated by Miss Bidder (see Journal S.P.R., Vol. IV, p. 344), in
which she and her sister dreamt at the same time of a pre-historic
human skeleton with a long snout.
As the conception of telepathy was deduced from a large number
of experiments, in the great majority of which the ideas transferred
were trivial in the extreme, so these trivial spontaneous cases may
give us the clue to the true explanation of cases whose psychological
significance is apt to be obscured by emotional considerations. For
any one who admits the possibility of telepathy, it would be not only
unnecessary but absurd, to maintain that these dreams of the Mis*
Bidders were caused by an external agent ; and it seems to me equally
unnecessary—though not, of course, equally absurd—to assume an
external agent in the present case. We know that verbal suggestion
may occasionally produce hallucinations and there was undoubtedly
verbal suggestion here, while this may have been supplemented at
the moment by telepathic suggestion from one percipient to the
other.
Supplement.] James Braid ; his Work and Writings. 127
SUPPLEMENT.
JAMES BRAID ; HIS WORK AND WRITINGS.
By Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
The following are all the books and articles by Braid on the subject of
hypnotism which I have been able to trace :—
1. Satanic Agency and Mesmerism reviewed, in a letter to the Rev. H.
McNeile, A.M., in Reply to a Sermon, preached by him. [1842, 12mo.]
2. Neurypnology, or the Rationale of Nervous Sleep, considered in Relation to
Animal Magnetism, illustrated by numerous cases ofsuccessful application
in the Relief and Cure of Disease. [1843, 12mo, pp. 281.]
3. The Power of the Mind over the Body, an Experimental Inquiry into the
Nature and Cause of the Phenomena attributed by Baron Reichenbach
and others to a " New Imponderable." [1846.]
4. Observations on Trance or Human Hybernation. [1850.]
5. Electro-Biological Phenomena, considered physiologically and psychologi
cally, from the Montldy Jourwd of Medical Science for June, 1851,
with Appendix.
6. Magic, Witchcraft, Animal Magnetism, Hypnotism and Electro-Biology ;
being a Digest of the latest Views of the Author on these Subjects. Third
Edition, greatly enlarged, embracing observations on J. C. Colquhoun's
History of Magnetism. [1852.]
7. Hypnotic Therapeutics, Illustrated by Cases, with an Appendix on Table-
Turning and Spirit-Rapping. Reprinted from the Monthly Journal of
Medical Science for July, 1853.
8. The Physiology of Fascination, and the Critics Criticised. [1855.] The
second part is a reply to the attacks made in the Zoist.
9. Observations on the Nature and Treatment of Certain Forms of Paralysis.
[1855.]
Articles in the Medical Times :—■
10. " Animal Magnetism." Vol. V., 1841-42, p. 283.
11. "Animal Magnetism." Vol. V., p. 308.
12. "Neuro-Hypnotism." Vol. VI., 1842, p. 230.
13. "Phreno-Mesmerism." Vol. IX., 1843-44, p. 74.
14. " Mr. Braid on Mesmerism." Vol. IX., p. 203.
15. "Observations on some Mesmeric Phenomena." Vol. IX., p. 225.
16. " Observations on Mesmeric and Hypnotic Phenomena." Vol. X. , 1844,
pp. 31 and 47.
128 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell. supplement.
17. "Case of Natural Somnambulism and Catalepsy, treated by Hypnotism ;
with remarks on the Phenomena presented during Spontaneous Som
nambulism, as well as that produced by various Artificial Processes."
Vol. XL, 1844-45, pp. 77, 95, and 134.
18. " Experimental Inquiry whether Hypnotic and Mesmeric Manifestations
can be adduced in Proof of Phrenology." Vol. XI., p. 181.
19. "Magic, Mesmerism, Hypnotism, &c, Historically and Physiologically
considered." Vol. XI., pp. 20% 224, 270, 296, 399, and 439.
20. "Case of Natural Somnambulism," &c. Vol. XII., 1845, p. 117.
[Article giving further history of case already reported.]
21. "The Fakirs of India." Vol. XII., p. 437.
22. "Dr. Elliotson and Mr. Braid." Vol. XIII., 1845-46, pp. 99, 120,
and 141.
23. ' ' On the Power of the Mind over the Body ; an Experimental Inquiry
into the Nature and Cause of the Phenomena attributed by Baron
Reichenbach and others to a ' New Imponderable. ' " Vol. XIV., 1846,
pp. 214, 252, and 273.
24. " Facts and Observations as to the Relative Value of Mesmeric and
Hypnotic Coma and Ethereal Narcotism, for the Mitigation or entire
Prevention of Pain during Surgical Operations." Vol. XV., 1846-47,
p. 381 ; continued : Vol. XVI., 1847, p. 10.
25. " Observations on the Use of Ether for Preventing Pain during Surgical
Operations, and the Moral Abuse it is capable of being converted to."
Vol. XVI., p. 130.
26. " Mr. Braid and Dr. Elliotson." Vol. XVII., 1847-48, p. 106.
27. " Mr. Braid and Mr. Wakley." Vol. XVII., p. 163.
28. "Observations on Trance or Human Hybernation." Vol. XXI., 1850,
pp. 351, 401, and 416.
In the Lancet :—
29. " Queries respecting the Alleged Voluntary Trance of Fakirs in India."
Vol. II., 1845, p. 325.
In the Monthly Journal of Medical Science :—
30. "Hypnotic Therapeutics, Illustrated by Cases." Vol. VIII., third
series, 1853, p. 14.
In the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal : —
31. " The Power of the Mind over the Body ; an Experimental Inquiry
into the Nature and Cause of the Phenomena attributed by Baron
Reichenbach and others to a 'New Imponderable.'" Vol. LXVI.,
1846, p. 286.
32. " Facts and Observations as to the relative Value of Mesmeric and
Hypnotic Coma, and Ethereal Narcotism, for the Mitigation or entire
Prevention of Pain during Surgical Operations." Vol. LXVIL, 1847,
p. 588.
33. "On the Use and Abuse of Anaesthetic Agents, and the best Modes of
Rousing Patients who have been too intensely affected by them.
Vol. LXX., 1848, p. 486.
supplement.] James Braid; His Work and Writings. 129
The name of James Braid is familiar to all students of hypnotism and is
rarely mentioned by them without due credit being given to the important
part he played in rescuing that science from ignorance and superstition.
Regret is usually expressed, however, that he held many erroneous views,
which it is claimed the researches of more recent investigators have disproved.
The following, as faras I can gather from hypnotic works and from conversa
tion with those interested in hypnotism, are the almost universally adopted
opinions in reference to Braid. (1) He was an English surgeon. (2) He
believed in phrenology. (3) He was the discoverer or rediscoverer of the
subjective origin of hypnotic phenomena. (4) He knew nothing of
suggestion. In all this, one thing, and one alone, is correct, namely, that
Braid was the rediscoverer of the subjective nature of hypnotic phenomena.
This estimate of Braid has arisen from imperfect knowledge of his writings.
Few seem to be acquainted with any of his works except " Neurypnology,''
or with the fact that this was only one of a long series on the subject of
hypnotism, and that in the later ones his views completely changed. The
necessarily limited length of this article will prevent my dealing with each
of these separately and in detail. I propose, therefore, first to refer shortly
to his earliest publication, then to give an account of the theories which are
found in " Neurypnology " alone, and finally to present a general picture of
his later opinions.
Meanwhile, a word as to Braid's nationality and to the events which led
to his hypnotic researches. The names of Elliotson, Esdaile and Braid
stand out prominently in the history of mesmerism and hypnotism in this
country, and it is not without interest to note that all of them studied at
Edinburgh University, and that both Esdaile and Braid were of Scotch birth
and parentage, the latter being born at Rylaw House, Fifeshire, about
1795.
On November 13th, 1841, Braid, for the first time, was present at a
mesmeric seance, the operator being Lafontaine. At this time mesmeric
phenomena were believed to be due either to mysterious force or fluid, self-
deception or trickery. Braid held the latter theory and, on the first
occasion, saw nothing to cause him to alter his views. At the next seance,
six days later, he noticed that one subject was unable to open his eyes.
Braid regarded this as a real phenomenon and was anxious to discover its
physiological cause ; and the following evening, when the case was again
operated on, he believed he had done so. After making a series of experiments,
chiefly on personal friends and relatives, he expressed his conviction that
the phenomena he had witnessed were purely subjective, and began almost
immediately to place these views before the public, his first lecture being
delivered on December 27th, 1841.
In 1842, Braid offered a paper on the subject of hypnotism to the
Medical Section of the British Association. This was refused, whereupon he
gave a conversazione at which many members of the Association were
present, read his paper and showed cases. His first work on mesmerism was
entitled " Satanic Agency and Mesmerism reviewed, in a letter to the Rev.
H. McNeile, A.M., of Liverpool, in Reply to a Sermon preached by hiin at
St. Jude's Church, Liverpool, on Sunday, April 10th, 1842." McNeile
had charged Braid with "refusing to state the laws of nature by the uniform
K
130 [Supplement.
Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
action of which mesmeric phenomena were produced." To this Braid replied
that he had always explained the phenomena on physiological and psycho
logical principles, but that McNeile had refused to attend his lectures or to
read any account of them. Braid at this time believed in the physical origin
of hypnotic phenomena, and referred to the theory by which he attempted
to explain certain changes in the central nervous system, more particularly
decreased functional activity, as the result of the exhaustion of other nerve
centres from continued monotonous stimulation. "But," he said, "even
supposing my theories did not explain the whole of the phenomena, surely,
when beneficial application could be made of the extent of the knowledge
we had acquired, we ought to be at liberty to do so without being stigmatised
from the pulpit as necromancers, or producing our effects by 'Satanic
agency.' Supposing a hundred passengers start in one of your packets, and
20 or 30 of them become sea-sick, and the others escape, would it be fair to
implicate the captain in a charge of acting by Satanic agency because the
whole were not sick, and because, according to McNeile, ' if it be in nature,
it will operate uniformly and not capriciously ? . . . If it operate
capriciously, then there is some mischievous agent at work ; and we are not
ignorant of the devices of the devil.' Would any man but Mr. McNeile
say that, because the captain gave the signal to heave anchor, to spread the
sails, and other ' talismanic tokens ' for steering the vessel, and because only
part of the passengers became sick, he was consequently affecting them
through Satanic agency ;—or that it would alter the matter one whit because
medical men could not assign the true cause of this, or why any one should
be so affected ? "
" Neukypnology."
" Neurypnology, or the Rationale of Nervous Sleep," was published by
Braid in 1843, and 800 copies were sold in a few months.
At the seance already referred to, Braid had observed that the mesmeric
condition was induced by fixed staring, and concluded that the inability to
open the eyes arose from paralysis of certain nerve centres and exhaustion of
the levator muscles. " I expressed," he said, "my entire conviction that
the phenomena of mesmerism were to be accounted for on the principle of
the derangement of the state of the cerebral spinal centres, and of the
circulatory, respiratory and muscular systems, induced by a fixed stare,
absolute repose of body, fixed attention and suppressed respiration,
concomitant with that fixity of attention. That the whole depended on the
physical and psychical condition of the patient, arising from the causes
referred to, and not at all on the volition, or passes of the operator throwing
out magnetic fluid, or exciting to activity some mystical, universal fluid or
medium."
Braid induced hypnosis by making the subject look at a bright object,
held in such a position above the forehead as was calculated to produce the
greatest possible strain upon the eyes and eyelids, while at the same time the
mind was to be riveted on the idea of that one object. Braid not only
maintained that the condition was a purely subjective one, produced in this
mechanical way, but also claimed to have successfully demonstrated that it
could be induced in like manner in persons who had never heard of mesmerism
and who were ignorant of what was expected of them. In illustration of
Supplement.] James Braid; His Work and Writings. 131
this, he mentioned that he had hypnotised one of his servants, who knew
nothing of mesmerism, by giving him such directions as were calculated to
impress his mind with the idea that his fixed attention was required merely
for the purpose of watching a chemical experiment with which he was
already familiar.
After having established the subjective origin of the phenonema, Braid
proposed that they should be called hypnotic, instead of mesmeric, and
invented the following terminology :—
Neurypnology, the rationale or doctrine of nervous sleep.
Neuro-hypnotism, or nervous sleep, a peculiar condition of the nervous
system produced by artificial contrivance.
Then, for the sake of brevity, suppressing the prefix "neuro," he gave
the following terms :—
Hypnotic, the state or condition of nervous sleep.
Hypnotise, to induce nervous sleep.
Hypnotised, put into the condition of nervous sleep.
Hypnotism, nervous sleep.
Dehypnotise, to restore from the state of nervous sleep.
Hypnotist, one who practises neuro-hypnotism.
This terminology is closely followed at the present day, the main
difference being that one now speaks of the science of hypnotism, instead
of that of neurypnology, applying the term hypnosis to the artificial sleep,
and hypnotic both to the phenomena and to the subject in whom they are
induced.
Braid at this date came to the following general conclusions :—
1. "That the effect of a continued fixation of the mental and visual eye,
in the manner and with the concomitant circumstances pointed out, is to
throw the nervous system into a new condition, accompanied with a state of
somnolence, and of a tendency, according to the mode of management, of
exciting a variety of phenomena different from those we obtain either in the
ordinary sleep, or during the waking condition.
2. "That there is at first a state of high excitement of all the organs of
special sense, sight excepted, and a great increase of muscular power ; and
that the senses afterwards become torpid in a much greater degree than what
occurs in natural sleep.
3. "That in this condition we have the power of directing or con
centrating nervous energy, raising or depressing it in a remarkable degree
at will, locally or generally.
4. "That in this state, we have the power of exciting the force and
frequency of the heart's action, and the state of the circulation, locally or
generally, in a surprising degree.
5. "That whilst in this peculiar condition, we have the power of regulat
ing and controlling muscular tone and energy in a remarkable manner and
degree.
6. " That we also acquire the power of producing rapid and important
changes in the state of the capillary circulation, and on the whole of the
secretions and excretions of the body, as proved by the application of
chemical tests.
K 2
132 [Supplement.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
7. "That this power can be beneficially directed to the cure of a variety
of diseases which were most intractable, or altogether incurable, by ordinary
treatment.
8. " That this agency may be rendered available in moderating, or
entirely preventing, the pain incident to patients while undergoing surgical
operations.
9. " That during hypnotism, by manipulating the cranium and face, we
can excite certain mental and bodily manifestations, according to the part
touched."
After hypnotising his patients, Braid manipulated them in various ways,
with a view of producing changes in the muscular and circulatory systems,
believing that this excited the different hypnotic phenomena and played an
important part in the cure of disease. He also held that cures could some
times be effected by similar methods in the waking condition. From the
description of his manner of inducing hypnosis, it is evident that he employed
verbal suggestion, but, at this time, this was apparently done unconsciously
and in ignorance of its value.
Braid found that he could terminate the hypnotic condition by means of
a current of cold air. He also noticed that he could make a rigid limb
flexible by blowing on it ; that he could restore the sight to one eye by
the same means and leave the other insensible ; excite one half of the
body to action, while the other remained rigid and torpid, or make the
patient pass from a general state of inactivity of the organs of special sense
and tonic muscular rigidity to the opposite condition of extreme mobility
and excited sensibility. He acknowledged that he was unable to explain
these extraordinary phenomena, but stated that he had no difficulty in
reproducing them, that they were independent of any "rapport" between
operator and patient and invariably appeared, no matter whether the current
of air came from the lips, a pair of bellows, the motion of the hand, or any
inanimate object.
The subjective explanation of the origin of mesmeric phenomena was not
a new one, and had already been given both by the Abbe' Faria and
Bertrand. Their views, however, if not entirely forgotten, exercised no
practical influence on mesmeric theory, and Braid evidently was unacquainted
with them when he commenced his mesmeric researches ; thus, his conclusions
were arrived at independently, and successfully substituted for those
universally held in his day. At a later date, when his opponents pointed
out the similarity between the theories, Braid asserted that this was more
apparent than real, as Faria had attributed everything to the effect of the
imagination ; on this point they differed, but were alike in asserting that
neither contact nor magnetic fluid was necessary.
At this time Braid did not believe that the phenomena of hypnotism
were the result of attention, for, in speaking of some articles on animal
magnetism which had appeared in the Medical Gazette in 1833, he said :
"In the writer's opinion, the phenomena are the result of attention strongly
directly to different parts of the body, whereas, by my method, the attention
is riveted to something outside the body."
In opposition to the theory that hypnotism resembled reverie. Braid
said : "Reverie proceeds from an unusual quiescence of the brain, and
inability of the mind to direct itself strongly to any one point. There is
supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 133
defect in the attention, which instead of being fixed on one subject, wanders
over a thousand, and even on these is feebly and ineffectively directed. This
is the very reverse of what is induced by my plan, because I rivet the
attention to one idea, and the eyes to one point, as the primary and
imperative condition."
Some experiments which Braid made as to the methods of inducing
hypnosis appear to have first suggested alterations in his hypnotic theory
and shaken his faith in the purely physical explanation of hypnotic
phenomena. At first he had required his patients to look for a considerable
time at some inanimate object, until the eyelids closed involuntarily. He
frequently found, however, that this was followed by pain and slight
conjunctivitis, and, in order to avoid this, he closed the patient's eyes at
a much earlier stage. Despite this, he was able to hypnotise as easily as
before and without subsequent unpleasant sensations. This led to further
experiment, when he found he could induce hypnosis as readily in the dark,
or with the eyes bandaged, as in the light and with the eyes uncovered ; it
being only necessary to keep the eyes fixed and the body and mind at
absolute rest. He always failed, however, in young children and in persons
of weak intellect, or of restless and excitable minds, who were unable to
comply with these simple rules. As he succeeded with the blind, Braid
concluded that the impression was made' through the mind and not through
the optic nerve. " It is important to remark," he said, "that the oftener
patients are hypnotised, from association of ideas and habits, the more
susceptible they become ; and in this way they are liable to be affected
entirely through the imagination. Thus if they consider or imagine there is
something doing, although they do not see it, from which they are to be
affected, they will become affected ; but on the contrary, the most expert
hypnotist in the world may exert all his efforts in vain, if the party does not
expect it, and mentally and bodily comply, and thus yield to it."
Braid at first was inclined to believe in phrenology and considered it
possible that the passions, emotions and intellectual faculties could be
excited during hypnosis by simple contact or friction over certain sympathetic
points of the head and face. He cited 12 cases in which he thought he had
observed these phenomena in subjects who were ignorant of phrenology,
and who were not influenced by previous training, or by leading questions
and suggestions on the part of the operator. He was not satisfied with
these results, however, and stated that it was his intention to conduct a new
series of experiments on fresh patients in order to ascertain to what extent
it might be practicable, by arbitrary associations, to excite the opposite
tendencies from the same point. He also thought it probable that errors
might have arisen through the remarkable docility of hypnotic subjects,
which made them anxious to comply with every suggestion or indication
given by the operator. In reference to the proposed further experiments,
he said, "There will thus be both positive and negative proof to aid us in
determining whether there is any natural and necessary connection existing
between the points manipulated and the manifestations excited ; whether it
may depend entirely upon associations which have originated from some
partial knowledge of phrenology, from arbitrary arrangement, or accidental
circumstances or causes which have been entirely overlooked or forgotten ;
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell. [Supplement.
and which afterwards produce the result from that ultimate law of the mind,
which ordains that the repetition of a definite sensation shall be followed by
a renovation of the past feelings with which it was before associated. I am
inclined to adopt this course, from my anxiety to remove every possible
source of error, my object being neither to prove nor disprove the truth of
phrenology. That during the nervous sleep, there is a power of exciting
patients to manifest the passions and emotions, and certain mental functions,
in a more striking manner than the same individuals are capable of in the
waking condition, no one can doubt who has seen much of these experiments.
And it can in no way alter the importance of hypnotism as a curative power
and extraordinary means of controlling and directing mental functions in
a peculiar manner, by a simple association of impressions, whether we thus
act on the brain as a single organ, or as a combination of separate organs ; or
whether the primary associations have originated from a special organic
connection, or from some accidental and unknown cause, or from precon-
sulted arrangement and arbitrary association."
The following account of some hypnotic phenomena is drawn partly from
" Neurypnology," and partly from other sources.
Braid recognised two distinct hypnotic conditions, which correspond
practically with the late Mr. Edmund Gurney's "alert" and "deep"
stages, also intermediate states between the two, one frequently gliding
imperceptibly into the other. The deep stage was characterised by a
condition of torpor more profound than that of natural sleep ; the alert by
exaltation of the special senses, increase in muscular sense and power, and
exaltation of certain mental faculties. By the sense of smell, some patients
were able to detect any person known to them, or to find the owner of any
glove. They first smelt the glove and then unhesitatingly presented it to
its owner, choosing him from amongst a large company. If the nostrils
were stopped, however, the apparent clairvoyant faculty instantly
disappeared. The sense of touch and the muscular sense were sometimes so
remarkably increased that some subjects were able to write with great
accuracy during hypnosis, when effectual precautions were taken to prevent
their being able to see. They crossed the t's and dotted the i's and could
even go back a line, strike out a letter and put it in its proper place. One
patient could correct the writing on a whole page of note-paper, but if the
relative positions of the table and paper were changed, the alterations ceased
to be placed correctly. The following is an interesting account, published
in the Medical Times for September, 1847, by an independent observer, of the
power possessed by certain somnambules of imitating language and song.
"On Tuesday last, the 3rd hist., Mile. Jenny Lind, accompanied by
Mr. and Mrs. Schwabe, and a few of their friends, attended a stance at
Mr. Braid's for the purpose of witnessing some of the extraordinary
phenomena of hypnotism. There were two girls who work in a warehouse,
and who had just come in their working attire. Having thrown them into
the sleep, Mr. Braid sat down to the piano, and the moment he began
playing, both somnambules arose and approached the instrument, when they
joined him in a trio. Having awoke one of the girls, Mr. Braid said,
although she was ignorant of the grammar of her own language when awake,
that when in the sleep she would prove herself competent to accompany
Supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 135
any one in the room in singing songs in any language, giving both notes and
words correctly—a feat which she was quite incompetent to perform in the
waking condition. He then requested any one in the room to put her to the
test, when Mr. Schwabe sat down to the instrument, and played and sang a
German song, in which she accompanied him correctly, giving both notes
and words simultaneously with Mr. Schwabe. Another gentleman then tried
her with one in Swedish, in which she succeeded. Next the queen of song,
the far-famed Jenny Lind, sat down to the instrument and sang most
beautifully a slow air, with Swedish words, which the somnambulist
accompanied her in, in the most perfect manner both as regards words and
music. Jenny now seemed resolved to test the powers of the somnambulist
to the utmost by a continued strain of the most difficult roulades and
cadenzas, for which she is so famous, including some of her extraordinary
sostentuto notes, with all their inflections from pianissimo to forte crescendo,
and again diminishing to thread-like pianissimo, but in all these fantastic
tricks and displays of genius by the Swedish nightingale, even to the shake,
she was so closely and accurately tracked by the somnambulist, that several
in the room occasionally could not have told, merely by hearing, that there
were two individuals singing—so instantaneously did she catch the notes, and
so perfectly did their voices blend and accord. Next, Jenny having been told
by Mr. Braid that she might be tested in some other language, this charming
songstress commenced ' Casta Diva, ' and the ' A la Bell a mi Ititornella, '
in which the fidelity of the somnambulist's performance, both in words and
music, was most perfect, and fully justified all Mr. Braid had alleged
regarding her powers. She was also tested by Mile. Lind in merely
imitating language, when she gave most exact imitations ; and Mr. Schwabe
also tried her by some most difficult combinations of sound, which he said he
knew no one was capable of imitating correctly without much practice, but the
somnambulist imitated them correctly at once, and that whether spoken slowly
or quickly. When the girl was aroused, she had no recollection of anything
which had been done by her, or that she had afforded such a high gratifica
tion to all present, by proving the wonderful powers of imitation which are
acquired by some patients during a state of artificial somnambulism ; she
said she merely felt somewhat out of breath, as if she had been running."
Despite long perseverance, Braid never succeeded in hypnotising idiots,
and he found that one patient, who had been easily hypnotised when well,
became refractory during the delirium of fever. With the majority of his
patients there was no loss of consciousness ; they simply became lethargic
and retained complete recollection of all that had occurred ; with others many
hypnotic phenomena could be produced without their having previously
passed through a condition in any way resembling sleep. This state was
popularly described as the "electro-biological," a name which Braid justly
termed ridiculous. In some instances hypnotised patients, even after having
undergone surgical operations, remembered nothing, while others, to whom
he had taught Greek, Latin, French, and Italian during hypnosis, forgot it
all when awake. When rehypnotised the lost memory frequently returned
spontaneously, but if it did not do so, the operator could revive it by placing
his hand on any part of the patient's body and thus giving a physical aid to
the concentration of attention. Suggestions made to these patients during
136 [Supplement.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
hypnosis were fulfilled in the waking state, despite the fact that they had
apparently been entirely forgotten.
Analogous States.
In hypnotism, Braid found an explanation of the prolonged trance of the
fakirs and of the voluntary suspended animation of Colonel Townsend ; some
instances of the former being remarkably well authenticated by the evidence
of English officers of position. On one occasion a fakir was buried at a
depth of four feet ; it was arranged that the experiment should last nine days
and an English officer had the grave constantly watched by sentinels. At
the end of the third day, the officer, fearing the fakir might be dead, and that
this would be the cause of trouble to himself, insisted on the termination of
the experiment. When the man was dug up he was as stiff and cold as a
mummy and apparently lifeless ; he revived, however, after being manipulated
for about a quarter of an hour.
Braid considered that there was a marked resemblance between the
condition produced by hashisch and certain hypnotic states, and in support of
this, quoted the following experiments made by Dr. O'Shaughnessy at
Calcutta, and published in Pereira's "Elements of Materia Medioa"; —
"At 2 p.m. a grain of the resin of hemp was given to a rheumatic patient.
At 4 p.m. he was very talkative, sang, called loudly for an extra supply of
food and declared himself in perfect health. At 6 p.m. he was asleep. At
8 p.m. he was found insensible, but breathing with perfect regularity, the
pulse and skin natural, and the pupils freely contractile on the approach of
light. Happening by chance to lift up the patient's arm, the professional
reader will judge of my astonishment, " observes Dr. O., "when I found it
remained in the posture in which I had placed it. The patient had become
cataleptic. We raised him to a sitting posture, and placed his arms and
limbs in every imaginable attitude. A waxen figure could not be more
pliant. He continued in this state till 1 a.m., when consciousness and
voluntary motion quickly returned. " A similar experiment was made with
another patient with like results.
Before considering the later works, it will be well to examine some of
the opinions expressed in reference to Braid, which apparently indicate that
the writers were acquainted with "Neurypnology" alone. Dr. Bastian, in
his article on Braidism in Quain's Dictionary of Medicine, expressed his
regret that Braid did not reject all the so-called phenomena of phreno-
hypnotism. Professor Romanes also appears to have been only acquainted
with " Neurypnology, " and mentions it alone in his article on Hypnotism
in the Nineteenth Century for September, 1880. He refers to the fact that
Heidenhain omits all reference to Braid and maintains that it would be
doing scant justice to Neurypnology to say that all Heidenhain's results had
been anticipated. For, "in the vast number of careful experiments which it
[Neurypnology] records—all undertaken and prosecuted in a manner strictly
scientific—it carried the inquiry into various provinces which have not been
entered by Heidenhain. No one can read Braid's work without being
impressed by the care and candour with which, amid violent opposition from
all quarters, his investigations were pursued ; and now, when after the lapse
of nearly 40 years, his results are beginning to receive the confirmation
supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 137
which they deserve, the physiologists who yield it ought not to forget the
credit that is due to the earliest, the most laborious, and the hitherto most
extensive investigator of the phenomena of what he calls hypnotism."
The following passage in " Suggestive Therapeutics," published in 1890,
shows that, at that date at all events, Bernheim was unacquainted with
Braid's advanced theories :—"Braid made use of suggestion without knowing
it. We must come down to 1880 to find the doctrine of suggestion freed
from all the elements that falsified it, even in the hands of Braid himself,
and applied in the simplest manner to therapeutics. The patient is put to
sleep by means of suggestion. He is treated by means of suggestion. The
subject being hypnotised, Liébeault's method consists in affirming in a loud
voice the disappearance of his symptoms. Such is the method of therapeutic
suggestion of which M. LWbeault is the founder. He was the first to clearly
establish that the cures of pain by the old magnetisers, and even by Braid's
hypnotic operations, are not the work either of a mysterious fluid or of
physiological modifications due to special manipulations, but the work of
suggestion alone."
In the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research for March, 1896,
M. Boirac, in replying to Dr. Walter Leaf's criticism of " L'Hypothese du
Magnétisme Animal," which appeared in the number of the Proceedings for
December, 1895 (Part XXIX.), states that he associates Braid with the
Paris School (hypnotism) and Faria with the Nancy School (suggestion).
General Theory.
In the commencement of " Neurypnology, " as we have seen, Braid
explained hypnotic phenomena mainly from the physical standpoint, and
held that they could be induced by fixed staring at an inanimate object,
even in persons who had heard nothing of hypnotism or mesmerism, and
who were ignorant of what was required of them. In the later chapters,
however, these views were considerably modified and he talks of persons
being hypnotised entirely through their imagination, and also of the useless-
ness of the efforts of the most expert mesmeriser if the patient were ignorant
of his aims. In his other works the physical theory is entirely abandoned in
favour of a purely psychical one. After explaining what induced him to adopt
the term hypnotism in preference to that of mesmerism, he stated that the
word hypnotism was liable to grave objections, as under it had been
comprised, not a single state, but a series of stages or conditions varying in
every conceivable degree, and that:—"In correct phraseology, the term
hypnotism ought to be restricted to the phenomena manifested in patients
who actually pass into a state of sleep, and who remember nothing on
awakening of what has transpired. Of those who may be relieved or cured
by hypnotic processes, perhaps not more than one in ten ever passes into
the state of oblivious sleep. The term hypnotism, therefore, is apt to confuse
them and lead them to suspect that they cannot be benefited by processes
which fail to produce the most obvious indication which their name imports."
Braid, therefore, proposed to alone call hypnotic those cases of artificial
sleep followed by amnesia on awakening, but in which there is perfect
recollection of what has happened when the patient is again hypnotised.
Hypnotic coma he described as that deeper stage in which the lost memory
138 Br. J. Milne BramweU. [Supplement.
is not revived in subsequent hypnoses. " I became satisfied," he said,
"that the hypnotic state was essentially a state of mental concentration,
during which the faculties of the mind of the patient were so engrossed with
a single idea or train of thought as, for the nonce, to render it dead or
indifferent to all other considerations and influences. The consequence of
this concentrated attention, again, to the subject in hand, intensified, in a
correspondingly greater degree, whatever influence the mind of the
individual could produce upon his physical functions during the waking
condition, when his attention was so much more diffused and distracted by
other impressions. Moreover, inasmuch as words spoken, or various sensible
impressions made on the body of an individual by a second party, act as
suggestions of thought and action to the person impressed, so as to draw and
fix his attention to one part or function of his body, and withdraw it from
others, —whatever influence suggestions and impressions are capable of
producing during the ordinary waking condition, should naturally be
expected to act with correspondingly greater effect during the nervous sleep,
when the attention is so much more concentrated, and the imagination, faith,
and expectant ideas in the mind of the patient are so much more intense
than in the ordinary waking condition. Now, this is precisely what
happens ; and I am persuaded that this is the most philosophical mode of
viewing the subject ; and it renders the whole clear, simple, and
intelligible to the apprehension of the unprejudiced person, who may at
once perceive that the real object and tendency of the various processes for
inducing a state of hypnotism or mesmerism is obviously to induce a state of
abstraction or concentration of attention—that is, a state of monoideism,
whether that may be by requesting the subject to look steadfastly at some
unexciting, and empty inanimate thing, or ideal object, or inducing him to
watch the fixed gaze of the operator's eyes, his pointed fingers, or
other manoeuvres of the mesmeriser. . . . Then, inasmuch as I feel
satisfied that the mental and physical phenomena which flow from the said
processes result entirely from the mental impressions or dominant ideas,
excited thereby in the minds of the subjects, changing or modifying the
previously existing physical action, and the peculiar physical action thus
superinduced reacting on their minds—and that, whether these dominant
expectant ideas existed in the minds of the subjects previously, or were
suggested to them after passing into the impressible condition, by audible
suggestions or sensible impressions excited by manipulations of a second party
—under these circumstances, I consider the following terms calculated to
realise all the precision which we may desire on this point.
' ' Let Mono-ideology indicate the doctrine of the influence of dominant
ideas in controlling mental and physical actions.
' ' Then Monoideism will indicate the condition resulting from the mind
being possessed by dominant ideas.
"To monoideise will indicate the act of performing processes for inducing
the act of monoideism.
" Monoideiser will indicate the person who monoideises.
" Monoideised will indicate the condition of the person who is in a state
of monoideism.
supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 139
' ' And Monoideo-Dynamics will indicate the mental and physical changes,
whether of excitement or depression, which result from the influence of
monoideism.
" And, finally, as a generic term, comprising the whole of these phenomena
which result from the reciprocal actions of mind and matter upon each other,
I think no term could be more appropriate than Psycho-Physiology."
This theory was first published by Braid in 1847. The fascination of
birds by serpents, the phenomena of electro-biology, of table-turning, the
gyrations of the odometer of Dr. Mayo, the magnetometer of Mr. Rutter, the
movements of the divining rod, the supposed levity of the human body when
lifted on the tips of the fingers of four individuals, were all, according to
Braid, examples of unconscious or involuntary muscular action resulting
from dominant ideas. When the attention of man or animal, he said, is
absorbed by an idea associated with movement, a current of nervous force
is sent into the muscles and a corresponding motion produced, not only
without conscious effort, but even in many instances in opposition to the
volition. The subject loses the power of neutralizing the dominant idea and
is irresistibly drawn or spellbound according to the nature of the impression
produced, and may, in this way, be brought under the control of others by
means of audible, visible, and tangible suggestions.
The mental and physical phenomena, no matter what processes were
employed to induce hypnosis, resulted entirely from the mental impressions,
or dominant ideas, thereby excited in the minds of the subjects. It was a
matter of indifference whether these ideas existed in the subject's mind
previously, or were afterwards suggested by audible suggestions or sensory
impressions created by the manipulations of the operator.
Braid held that the operator acted like an engineer and called into action
the forces in the patient's own organism, and controlled and directed them
in accordance with the laws which governed the action of the mind upon the
body.
In reference to "Electro-Biological Phenomena, considered physiologically
and psychologically," published in 1851, Braid stated that its object was to
prove the subjectivity of the hypnotic and mesmeric condition, and to show
that the phenomena resulted from the concentrated mental attention of the
patient acting on his own physical organism, and of the changed condition
of the physical action thus induced reacting on the mind of the patient.
That the changed physical condition arose from the action of predominant
ideas, and that these ideas might arise in the minds of the patients, and
become operative on them, through their own unaided acts—or from the
mere remembrance of past feelings, without any co-operation or act of a
second party ; and that, in certain subjects, they might also be excited by
audible, visible, or tangible suggestions from another person, to any extent
whatever,—even liefore they passed into a state of sleep. Braid stated that
he had held and endeavoured to prove this theory more than Jive years
previously.
In reply to a writer who had adopted in a modified form the objective
theory of mesmeric phenomena, Braid says :—" If Mr. Newnham would only
condescend to consider the simple subjective theory which I have ventured
to propound, I think he might readily comprehend how the new modes of
140 [Supplement.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
excitement, or depression, or peculiar distribution of the nervous or vital
influence within the patient's own body might arise through the influence of
his own mind acting on his physical organism, and might thus account for all
which is realised without the transmission of any occult influence from one
human being to another. I readily grant, however, that the looks, words
and actions of a second party may furnish suggestions influential upon others
—just as a word of encouragement, spoken or written by a friend, may neive
our arm with greater power, and inspire our tongue with greater eloquence
—and that a lively companion, or encouraging expression may excite us ;
whilst a grave companion or doubtful expression would chill and depress—
and that hope and confidence, or the contrary, in the means used, may
modify, to a remarkable extent, the results under any mode of treatment.
Still, I believe that there is no positive interchange or transference of
nervous or vital force from the operator to the patient as the actual cause of
these results, as has been alleged by the mesmerists. I do not believe that,
in such instances, A loses an amount of power equivalent to what B gains ;
I do not believe that a preacher, an orator, or an author loses an amount
of vital force in exact ratio to the numbers influenced by his spoken or
printed ideas, sentiments and illustrations,—which would necessarily be
the case were the magnetic theory true. On the contrary, I do believe
that the perusal of a posthumous work might be equally influential as
if the book had been printed when the author was alive—and that the
simple suggestion of new ideas to the mind of the reader, through the
printed symbols of thought, is the real efficient cause of the future
results."
In " Neurypnology," Braid stated that he was unable to account for the
action of a current of air upon hypnotised subjects ; at a later date he gave
the following theory. In hypnosis the attention is concentrated upon the
particular function called into action, while the others merge into a state of
torpor; thus, only one function is active at any one time and hence intensely
so. The arousing of any dormant function is equivalent to superseding the
one in action, and he explained, therefore, the termination of a state of
muscular rigidity when a current of cold air is directed to the skin, by
suggesting that this called the attention to the skin, and withdrew it from
the muscular sense.
Braid considered the following to be the chief points of difference
between spontaneous and induced somnambulism. Spontaneous somnambu
lists are impelled to certain trains of action by internal impulses, while the
induced tend to remain at absolute rest and to lapse into a state of profound
sleep, unless excited by some impression from without.
Natural and artificial sleep were not regarded by Braid as identical, and
the following are further points of contrast in addition to those already
mentioned (pp. 131 — 2). The pupils are dilated in hypnosis and the
eyelids either quiver continuously, or are firmly closed by spasmodic
contractions. In passing into hypnosis, anything held in the hand is grasped
still more firmly. There is an increase of the muscular sense, and hypnotic
subjects possess an extraordinary power of balancing themselves Chronic
rigidity of the muscles is not followed by corresponding exhaustion. Some
times in the hypnotic state there is excitement, similar to that produced by
supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 141
wines and spirits, at others there is muscular quiescence, with acute hearing
and dreamy, glowing imagination, closely resembling the condition induced
byConiuin. "The principal difference," he said, "between the hypnotic
or nervous sleep and common sleep consists in the state or condition of
the mind. In passing into common sleep, the mind is diffusive or passive,
flitting from one idea to another indifferently, thereby rendering the subject
unable to fix his attention on any regular train of thought, or to perform
any acts requiring much effort of will. The consequence of this is that a
state of passiveness is manifested during the sleep, so that audible
suggestions and sensible impressions addressed to the sleeper, if not intense
enough to wake him entirely, seldom do more than excite a dream, in which
ideas pass through his mind without exciting definite physical acts ; but, on
the other hand, the active and concentrated state of the mind engendered
by the processes for inducing the nervous sleep, are carried into the sleep,
and, in many instances, excite the sleeper, without awaking, to speak or to
exhibit physical manifestations of the suggestions received through words
audibly uttered in his hearing, or ideas previously existing in his mind, or
excited by sensible impressions made by touches or passes of the operator,
which direct the attention of the sleeper to different parts, or excite into
action certain combinations of muscles, and thereby direct his current of
thought. " Another difference is the wonderful power of hypnosis in curing
many diseases, which had resisted natural sleep and every known agency
for years. For instance, a few hypnotic seances of ten minutes each cured
a patient who must have had during his long illness at least eight years'
sleep.
Magnets, etc.
In Braid's time the mesmerists held that magnets, certain metals, crystals,
etc., possessed a peculiar power and, with sensitive subjects, were capable of
producing attraction and other remarkable phenomena. Some experienced
an unpleasant sensation like an aura, others got headache, or attacks of
fainting or catalepsy, with spasms so violent that they apparently endangered
life. Frequently there was hypereesthesia of the special senses. Many
also fancied they saw fiery bundles of light stream from the poles of the
magnet. All this was said to happen even when the subjects did not see
the magnets and did not know what was being done. Braid performed many
experiments in order to test these statements, with the following results :—-
the phenomena appeared when the patients had preconceived ideas on the
subject, or when these were excited by leading questions, but were
invariably absent when they were ignorant of what was being done.
Pretended magnets also produced the phenomena when the patients knew
what was expected to occur. Reichenbach recorded an instance where, by
the mere exposure of a sensitive plate in a box with a magnet, an impression
had been made, as if it had been exposed to the full influence of the light.
Braid repeated the experiment, and also had similar ones performed for him
l>y an expert photographer and, when all sources of fallacy were guarded
against, the results were invariably negative. According to Braid, the mind
of the patient alone was sufficient to produce the effects attributed to
magnetic or odyllic force and suggested ideas were capable of exciting a great
variety of physical sensations and mental conditions.
142 [Supplement.
Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
The following is an account of an experiment of Braid's to show that
suggestion was the true explanation of the supposed mesmeric powers of
magnets and certain metals :—"When in London lately," he said, "I had
the pleasure of calling upon an eminent and excellent physician, who is in
the habit of using mesmerism in his practice, in suitable cases, just as he
uses any other remedy. He spoke of the extraordinary effects he had
experienced from the use of magnets applied during the mesmeric state, and
kindly offered to illustrate the fact on a patient who had been asleep all the
time I was in the room, and in that state during which I felt assured she
could overhear every word of our conversation. He told me that when he
put the magnet into her hands, it would produce catalepsy of the hands and
arms, and such was the result. He wafted the hands and the catalepsy
ceased. He said that the mere touch of a magnet on a limb would stiffen it,
and such he proved to be the fact.
" I now told him that I had got a little instrument in my pocket, which
although far less than his, I felt assured would prove quite as powerful, and
I offered to prove this by operating on the same patient, whom I had never
seen before, and who was in the mesmeric state when I entered the room.
My instrument was about three inches long, the thickness of a quill, with a
ring attached to the end of it. I told him that when put into her hands, he
would find it catalepsize both hands and arms, as his had done, and such was
the result. Having reduced this by wafting, I took the instrument from
her, and again returned it, in another position, and told him it would now
have the very reverse effect,—that she would not be able to hold it, and that
although I closed her hands on it, they would open and that it would drop
out of them, and such was the case,—to the great surprise of my worthy
friend, who now desired to be informed what I had done to the instrument
to invest it with such new and opposite power. This I declined doing for
the present ; but I promised to do so when he had seen some further
proofs of its remarkable powers. I now told him that a touch with it, on
either extremity, would cause the extremity to rise and become cataleptic,
and such was the result ; that a second touch on the same part would reduc&
the rigidity, and cause it to fall, and such again was proved to be the fact.
After a variety of other experiments, every one of which proved precisely as.
I had predicted, she was aroused.
" I now applied the ring of my instrument on the third finger of the right
hand, from which it was suspended, and told the doctor, when it was so-
suspended, it would send her to sleep. [To this he replied, ' It never will, '
but I again told him that I felt confident that it would send her to sleep.]
We then were silent, and very speedily she was once more asleep. Having
aroused her, I put the instrument on the second finger of her left hand, and
told the doctor it would be found she could not go to sleep when it was-
placed there. He said he thought she would, and he sat steadily gazing at
her, but I said firmly and confidently that she would not. After a consider
able time, the doctor asked her if she did not feel sleepy, to which she-
replied, ' Not at all. ' ' Could you rise and walk ? ' When she told him she-
could, I then requested her to look at the point of the forefinger of her
right hand, which I told the doctor would send her to sleep, and such was.
the result ; after being aroused, I desired her to keep a steady gaze at the
Supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 143
nail of the thumb of the left hand, which would send her to sleep in like
manner, and such proved to be the fact.
"Having repaired to another room, I explained to the doctor the real
nature and powers of my little and apparently magical instrument, that it
was nothing more than my portmanteau key and ring, and that what had
imparted to it such apparently varied powers was merely the predictions
which the patient had overheard me make to him, acting upon her in the
peculiar state of the nervous sleep, as irresistible impulses to be effected,
according to the results she had heard me predict. Had I predicted that
she would see any flame, or colour, or form, or substance, animate or
inanimate, I knew from experience that such would have been realised, and
responded to by her ; and that, not from any desire on her part to impose
upon others, but because she was self-deceived, the vividness of her
imagination in that state inducing her to believe, as real, what were only the
figments of fancy, suggested to her mind by the remarks of others. The
power of suggestions of this sort also in paralysing or energising muscular
power is truly astonishing ; and may all arise in perfect good faith with
almost all patients who have passed into the second conscious state and with
some during the first conscious state."
In 1843, Braid referred to Elliotson's belief in the powers of certain
metals, and to Wakley's experiments. The latter, operating with a non-
mesmerising metal, made the patient believe he was using a mesmerising
one, whereupon she fell asleep ; and he concluded that all the subjects were
impostors. Braid denied this, asserting that the active agent was simply the
imagination, and that the metals were neither mesmeric nor non-mesmeric.
In the same way, he explained the action of the wooden tractors which
Dr. Hayarth, in 1799, successfully substituted for the metal ones of
Mr. Perkins. The latter consisted of two pieces of metal, one apparently of
iron and the other of brass, about three inches long, blunt at one end and
pointed at the other. They were invented by Dr. Elisha Perkins, of
Norwich, Connecticut, who in 1796 took out a patent for them, and were
applied by drawing them lightly over the part affected for about 20 minutes.
This method of treatment, which was very fashionable at one time, was
termed Perkinism, in honour of its inventor.
According to Braid, it had long been recognised that various anomalous
sensations followed the prolonged direction of the attention to any part of
the body; but notwithstanding the fact that remarkable cures had occasionally
been caused by mental excitement, and severe illness and even death had
resulted from fear, it was usually supposed that these anomalous sensations
were unaccompanied by physical change. With the exception of Dr. Holland,
who wrote on the influence of attention on the bodily organs in his " Medical
Notes and Reflections," no one, Braid said, entertained the idea that definite
and special physical changes conld be excited, regulated, and controlled at
will by the voluntary mental efforts of a healthy individual directed towards
his own body ; or that the same results might be produced involuntarily, by
the suggestions of another person conveyed directly, verbally, or indirectly,
by means of passes, etc.
The following are examples of the power of suggestion in causing
alterations in bodily function :—" I had told a friend," Braid said, "that
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell. [Supplement.
it sufficed to arouse certain ideas as to her condition in the patient's mind in
order to produce the corresponding alterations in the functions of the organ
or part of the body referred to ; as he was not inclined to believe my
statement, I told him I could increase the secretion of milk in one of his
wife's breasts (she happened to be nursing a child at the time), by calling her
attention to the breast during hypnosis. Eight months previously I had
hypnotised this lady and cured her of severe headache. She was a good
somnambule." After obtaining the patient's consent, but without telling
her of the proposed experiment, Braid hypnotised her and drew her attention
to her breast. On being awakened, she remembered nothing of what had
been said or done, but complained of a feeling of tightness and tension in
the breast. Her husband then told her that Braid had been trying to
increase the secretion of milk. She replied, " That would be no light
matter, for my child is 14 months old, and I have hardly any milk." Braid
asked her to send for the child and to put it to the breast, when it got so
much milk that it was nearly choked. A few days later the patient
complained that her figure was deformed in consequence of the swelling of
the left breast. Braid hypnotised her again and repeated the experiment
with the right breast. The result was precisely the same, and both breasts
now secreted so much milk that the lady was able to suckle her child for six
months longer, whereas before she had always complained of lack of milk.
The value of the hypnotic mode of treatment was best shown, according
to Braid, by "cases of hysterical paralysis, in which, without organic
lesion, the patient may have remained for a considerable length of time
perfectly powerless of a part, or of the whole body, from a dominant idea
which has paralysed or misdirected his volition. In such cases, by altering
the state of the circulation, and breaking down the previous idea, and
substituting a salutary idea of vigour and self-confidence in its place, which
can be done by audible suggestions addressed to the patient, in a confident tone
of voice, as to what mnst and shall be realised by the processes he has been
subjected to, —on being aroused a few minutes afterwards,with such dominant
idea in their minds, to the astonishment of themselves as well as of others,
the patients are found to have acquired vigour and voluntary power over
their hitherto paralysed limbs, as by a magical spell of witchcraft."
The power of imagination and excited attention, in producing a specific
influence in a healthy person, was beautifully illustrated, he said, in the
following case : ' ' Having heard an account of some extraordinary discovery
in America, of certain medicines which could manifest their influence through
glass, that is, that by taking hold of a phial in which the medicine was
contained, it would impart its peculiar medicinal virtue through the closed
phial ;—having read this account, I named it to certain parties, who scouted
the idea as preposterous. I told them I did not doubt the fact of such
physical effects resulting from such means, but added that I very strongly
suspected the correctness of the physiology of the explanation. I was
inclined to believe it quite possible that it arose from vivid imagination,
attention and expectation, exciting the particular function to be acted upon.
This they scouted as equally preposterous, which induced me to repeat my
conviction of the possibility of such a result taking place [although I had
never tried it], and I also proposed to test it forthwith, in their presence.
Supplement.] James Braid ; his Work and Writings. 145
With this view, I requested an ounce phial to be brought to me, filled with
common water, coloured with syrup of poppies, which I meant to use for the
purpose of acting as an emetic. We then repaired to a room, where there
was a female friend, who knew nothing of our intentions. I then commenced
talking to the gentlemen, but so that she could hear the conversation, about
the remarkable discovery of this extraordinary medium, which could act as
an emetic through the glass. I then requested this lady to oblige me by
trying its effects. She was very unwilling to encounter it, but at length was
prevailed upon to do so, by my assuring her it would much oblige me, and
we could all place the most implicit confidence in her veracity. She very
soon stated that it gave her an unpleasant feeling extending up the arm. I
encouraged her to persevere, assuring her it would only make her sick, and
added that when it got as high as the shoulder it would suddenly dart across
the chest, when it would induce vomiting. When the feeling had extended
as far as the elbow, we observed her become as pale as ashes, and from this
it speedily mounted to the shoulder and across the chest, and was evidently
about to be followed by vomiting had I not suddenly put an end to the
experiment. This I did by desiring her to take another phial into the
other hand, which would neutralise the effects of the emetic phial. The
result was equally successful. The experiment did not last more than two
or three minutes. I repeated the experiment a second time with the same
patient, with like effect." ... "A consideration of these facts," Braid
said, "renders it easy to understand how hypnotism may become available
for the relief and cure of various diseases. By various modes of suggestion,
either by audible language, spoken within the hearing of the patient, or by
definite physical impressions, certain ideas are fixed strongly and involuntarily
in the mind of the patient. These act as stimulants or sedatives, according
to the nature of the expectant idea, and either direct attention to, or
withdraw it from, particular organs or functions. Similar results are effected
in ordinary practice, by prescribing medicines which stimulate or irritate
these organs, thereby directly increasing their functions, or which produce
the reverse effect, either by direct sedative action on the organs, or by
diminishing the heart's action, or by stimulating some distant part, and
thereby producing revulsion. The great object of all treatment is either to
excite or to depress function, or to increase or to diminish the existing
state of sensibility and circulation locally or generally, with the necessary
attendant changes in the general, and more especially in the capillary,
circulation. For this purpose I feel convinced that hypnotism may be
applied in the cure of some forms of disease, with the same ease and
certainty as our most approved methods of treatment."
Braid cited the alteration in the capillary circulation which takes place
in the phenomenon of blushing and which may appear immediately as the
result of a mental impression. "Where then," he asks, " is the difficulty
in comprehending why a dominant expectant idea in the mind of the patient
should be adequate to produce effects equally potent on other parts of the
body, and in special organs, when strongly concentrated on such organs or
parts 1 The same effects are produced then by hypnotism as are produced
by various drugs which depress or excite the circulation. In other cases
hypnotism may be supposed to act as an alterative, producing a new action
h
146 [Supplement.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
or counter impression, during which the morbid action is suspended, which
affords an opportunity for a natural and healthy action to be resumed when
the influence of hypnotism is suspended." In support of this theory. Braid
called attention to the number of recoveries which took place during the use
of infinitesimally small doses of medicine in homeopathic practice. These,
he said, benefited the patient, not by their physical or chemical qualities,
but as suggestions, and quoted Professor Simpson, who had proved that in
one homoeopathic dilution a patient would have to take a dose every second
of time, night and day, for 30,000 years before he consumed one grain of
the original drug, while another was so attenuated that it would require a
mass of the dilution equal to 61 times the size of the earth, to contain a
single grain of the medicine.
While, according to Braid, the action of homoeopathic remedies was a
purely subjective one, he also thought that the mental element associated
with the administration of drugs in general had been far too much ignored,
and said, " It is worthy of inquiry how much of the benefits derived during
ordinary treatment may be due entirely to the effects of the medicine, and
how much indirectly by its directing attention to, or withdrawing it from the
seat of morbid action. ... A mental impression is necessarily brought
into operation whenever any substance is taken, supposed to be of a medical
quality, and it will either excite or depress the functions of the morbid part
[to or from which the mind is naturally directed] according to circumstances,
independently of the mere physical influence which would otherwise ensue
from the particular medicine, supposing the patient had not been aware
he had taken any medical substance." This mental impression, Braid
thought, accounted for the remarkable revolutions which have taken place
at different times as to the estimate of the virtues and powers of particular
medicines. "At one period a universal favourite appeared to be possessed
of every valuable quality ; anon, discarded and forgotten as utterly worthless ;
again, arising into meridian power and splendour, to be followed by another
decadence in due course. All this arises very naturally in the following
manner. A zealous and sanguine professor prescribes it with high confidence
of its potency for good, and patients, who are generally acute physiognomists
as regards their medical attendants, catch the inspiration and the results are
most propitious. Every successful result exalts the confidence of the
physician and patient ; and others, prescribing with confidence, realise
equally favourable results, and thus the remedy attains the culminating
point of its fame and favour. Others, however, follow in their wake, but
neither with the same hopes nor desire that they should find the discovery
of some rival practitioner deserving such laudation. The patients discern
the doubtful omen portrayed in the words, looks and manner of the
attendant ; the effects are correspondingly less salutary, and every
succeeding case makes a decadence in the reputation of the once fashionable
and omnipotent remedy. Others espouse this view, and thus, through their
combined moral impressions, they subvert the natural tendency of the
remedy, and prevent the good which should legitimately have attached to it,
independently of either enthusiasm, or envy or caprice. It thus slumbers
for a time in forgetfulness, to give place to another rival, which is now in
the ascendant, until some other zealous patron at length takes the former
supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 147
under his special favour, and by a similar process as at first, it once more
rises to the highest honours, but only to sink again, in its turn, to
unmerited neglect."
Clairvoyance, etc.
In Braid's opinion, much of the reluctance to accept the genuine
phenomena of mesmerism and hypnotism arose from the extravagant
assertions of the mesmerists in reference to clairvoyance—assertions which
he described as being opposed to all the known laws of physical science
and a mockery of the human understanding. As the result of frequent
experiments made, not only on his own patients, but also upon many of the
renowned clairvoyants of the day, Braid was able to find nothing but
hypnotic exaggeration of natural powers. The following sources of error,
he said, ought always to be kept in mind :—1. The hyperaesthesia of the
organs of special sense, which enables impressions to be perceived through
the ordinary media that would pass unrecognised in the waking condition.
2. The docility and sympathy of the subjects, which tend to make them
imitate the actions of others. 3. The extraordinary revival of memory by
which they can recall things long forgotten in the waking state. 4. The
remarkable effect of contact in arousing memory. 5. The condition of
double consciousness or double personality. 6. The vivid state of the
imagination, which instantly invests every suggested idea, or remembrance
of past impressions, with the attributes of present realities. 7. The
tendency of the human mind, in those with a great love of the marvellous,
to erroneously interpret the subject's replies in accordance with their own
desires. 8. Deductions rapidly drawn by the subject from unintentional
suggestions given by the operator. Braid considered that the belief in
thought-transference arose from the failure to guard against sources of error
similar to those just described, and stated that he had never met with any
case where the subjects could correctly interpret his unexpressed desires,
without some sensible indication of them. In reference to the alleged
intuitive powers of certain mesmeric subjects, Braid held that, whereas
with animals instinct was usually right, with somnambules it was generally
wrong. It was true that certain patients could successfully predict their
own hysterical attacks, but here the prophecy produced its own fulfilment
through self-suggestion.
Phrenology.
Braid's increased knowledge of the power of mental influences in
provoking the various phenomena of the hypnotic state soon led him to
discard even the slightest belief in phrenological phenomena. He complained
that the author of an article in the North British Review for November,
1854, confounded him with the Phreno-Mesmerists and attributed to him
the belief that touching particular parts of the head would make a hypnotised
patient laugh, pray, sing, steal, and fight, etc. "Now," said Braid, "the
fact is that I never adduced the said manifestations as a proof of the
organology of phrenology. I exhibited the phenomena and explained how
they were to be accounted for upon totally different principles, so that they
neither proved nor disproved the doctrine of phrenology, but left that
precisely where they found it. These manifestations may arise either from
L 2
148 [Supplement.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
a previous knowledge of phrenology, or from a system of training during
the sleep, so that they may come out subsequently as acts of memory,
when corresponding points are touched, with which particular ideas have
been associated through audible suggestion—which arbitrary association
may be equally readily established by touching other parts of the body as by
touching different parts of the head—or they may arise from the touch
calling into action certain muscles of expression of mental conditions,
exciting in the mind of the subject the ideas with which they were usually
associated in the waking condition. This latter mode I consider the only
natural mode of exciting these manifestations, and it is a mere inversion
of the sequence which ordinarily obtains between mental and muscular
excitation ; viz. , firstly, the touch calls into play the muscles constituting the
' Anatomy of expression ' of any given passion or emotion, idea or train of
thought ; and, secondly, this physical expression suggests or excites in the
mind of the subject the corresponding idea, passion or emotion with which
it is usually associated in the waking condition ; i.e. under ordinary
circumstances, the mental impression precedes and acts as the exciting
cause of physical manifestations of different mental conditions, but here the
physical condition precedes and acts as the exciting cause of the mental
condition. . . . It is well known, however, that so long ago as
December, 1841, I particularly pointed out the remarkable docility of
patients during hypnosis, which made them most anxious to comply with
every proper request or supposed wish of others. I have, therefore, no
doubt that they might be trained to manifest, during hypnotism, the
opposite tendencies, in accordance with conventional arrangements."
As early as 1843, Braid had adopted the view that the supposed phreno
logical manifestations were due to muscular expression exciting corresponding
mental conditions, and in 1844 he showed that he was able to induce all the
phenomena by verbal suggestion, no matter what part of the head was
touched.
Suggestion, Passes, etc.
At first Braid employed mechanical methods alone, both for the
induction of hypnosis and its phenomena. But when he abandoned his
physical theory, his views as to the value of passes, etc. , naturally changed,
and he soon regarded them as only of secondary importance, and attached
most value to suggestion. With certain impressionable subjects, hypnosis
might be caused by self-suggestion ; if they believed that something was taking
place at a distance, capable of putting them to sleep, they would fall asleep
even if nothing was happening. Direct verbal suggestion, however, was
best both for the production of hypnotic phenomena and for the cure of
disease. After hypnotising his patients, Braid stated in a confident manner
the results he wished to obtain and, in certain subjects, found that these
could be varied by simple change in the voice. Thus, if he made a patient
see an imaginary sheep, and then asked him in a cheerful manner what
colour it was, this tone usually elicited the reply "White," or some light
colour. If he then asked "What colour is it now?" giving a sad intonation
to the word now, the reply would usually be " Black."
The action of passes, etc., is explained by Braid in the following manner.
Everything which produces a new impression will modify or change existing
Supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 149
functions, whether the new impression be of a mental or physical nature.
The brain receives many impressions, which subsequently influence the
mind, although they were not perceived when conveyed to it by the organs
of sense ; and others, too slight ever to become conscious, may nevertheless
be sufficient to produce a local influence on the nerves and capillaries.
Thus, a person may be engaged in reading, so as not to notice he is sitting
in a draught, and yet this may cause rheumatism. Passes may have a
mechanical action through the agitation of the air, or by touch, or they may
produce changes in temperature and electrical states. They are most
powerful, however, when they directly excite mental action, either by fixing
the attention on one part or function of the body and withdrawing it from
others, or by arousing ideas previously associated with the physical
impression. All these effects may be neutralised by direct suggestion, and
it is quite possible, by a system of training, to make passes, etc. , produce
the opposite of the result attributed to them. Thus, " supposing that, with
each touch or agitation of the air the operator speaks aloud and predicts what
shall happen, the auricular suggestion maybe so strong as to cause thepredicted
manifestation to be realised instead of what otherwise would have been the
case ; and thus, from this time forward, through the double conscious
memory, the like impression on that part or organ of sense will recall the
previously associated idea and manifestations." Some sort of material
combination may be sufficient to produce hypnosis when it is positively
affirmed that it will do so, while a moment later the same method will
produce nothing, when it is suggested it will be a failure. "All these
phenomena may be realised without the patient intending to play off any
deception on others, or having any remembrance of the fact on coming out
of the sleep." Braid also stated that the entire value of passes and various
other mechanical methods, was altogether a suggestive one and that he used
them just as he would use audible suggestion.
Dangers.
In passing into the hypnotic state, Braid held that reason and will were
the first mental powers to wane ; thus the imagination gained the ascendancy,
and the cerebro-spinal functions became more excitable, as the controlling
powers of the will were withdrawn. This interference with the volition,
however, had its limits, and in an unpublished letter in my possession, in
which he replied to some questions regarding the dangers of hypnotism,
Braid stated "that the Almighty would never have delegated to man such a
dangerous influence over his fellow-man as to have given him such
irresistible power over his volition. . . . While under the hypnotic
influence, the patients evince great docility, but there is, however, such a
state of the perceptive faculties and judgment that they will be quite as
fastidious of correct conduct as when in the natural state. So far as I know,
there is no more, or not so much, chance of gaining a knowledge of the
thoughts of others than might be attained by giving the patient a glass or
two of wine. And I have no experience of any such irresistible influence
over individuals for producing those malign effects you refer to. I
strongly suspect they only exist in the imagination of the parties operating
or operated on. At all events, no such effects result from my operations,
150 [Supplement.
Dr. J. Milne BramweU.
although undoubtedly I have been able to produce the most wonderful
effects in many instances where ordinary treatment had been unavailing."
Braid also asserted that he could give instructions to those who had been
successfully hypnotised, no matter how often, by means of which they
could completely resist the influence of any one afterwards.
In 1847, Braid contrasted the dangers of ether with those of hypnotism,
from a moral point of view, and concluded in favour of hypnotism. He
referred to the moral abuse to which ethereal narcotism is capable of being
turned by cruel and unprincipled individuals. The opponents of mesmerism
and hypnotism had asserted that their employment was calculated to excite
the animal passions and that virtuous women might be victimised by
unprincipled men, even without their consciousness of the fact when
restored to the waking state, or their possessing any mode of bringing home
to the culprits a charge of their villainy, while there was not a whisper
against the use of ether as liable to be converted to such unholy purposes.
Braid's experience of both ether and hypnotism enabled him to confidently
state that ether was much the more dangerous of the two. He had never
seen a hypnotised patient who did not strenuously resist any attempt at
taking a liberty with her. Such patients could not be induced to take off
their stockings, for example, or to give a kiss to a gentleman, even should
he be a hallucinatory one. On the contrary, they would repel such
suggestions with more energy than in the waking condition, " What might
be achieved," he said, " by systematic and persevering attempts to corrupt
a virtuous person during that state, I do not pretend to tell ; I should never
condescend to witness such attempts being systematically made ; but my
present convictions are that the same individual might be more readily
demoralised when awake, than when in the second conscious state of
nervous sleep, which evidently has a tendency with virtuous people to
quicken their perceptions and heighten their notions of what would be
immoral or highly indecorous, whilst at the same time it renders them
most docile and obliging in all which is reasonable and seemly in their
estimation. Thus, while they still indignantly repel the proposal to kiss an
imaginary gentleman, they will be quite willing to do so to an imaginary
child. A libidinous manifestation I have never seen during hypnotism, but
I have witnessed the most intense manifestations of erotism arise
spontaneously on several occasions during the primary or exciting state of
etherisation, and that even in a patient of high respectability and of the
most modest and virtuous conduct and pious disposition in her general
deportment when awake."
Again, he said, supposing an unprincipled person were placed in the
most favourable circumstances for perpetrating a hypnotic crime and
succeeded, after systematic and persevering attempts, in doing so, and that,
on awaking, the patient had no remembrance whatever of the injury
inflicted on her,—" let not the criminal indulge in a delusive hope that he
could not possibly be inculpated. From the well-established and most
beneficent law of double consciousness, it is quite certain that, however
completely the transactions which occurred during the sleep may be
forgotten on awaking, she has only to be hypnotised or mesmerised when
out into the witness box, to render her as competent to give accurate
Supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 151
testimony of all which occurred in her former state of nervous sleep, as in
the waking state she could testify to the facts which occurred in her waking
condition. Now, I maintain there is not a like security for the person who
might be victimised during ethereal narcotism. By this means patients
might be rendered speedily entirely oblivious of what was occurring, and that
without the benefit and security of the double-conscious memory to be
summoned to the conviction of the perpetrators of their wrongs. " . . .
"I have proved by experiments, both in public and private, that during the
state of excitement the judgment is sufficiently active to make the patient,
if possible, even more fastidious, as regards the propriety of conduct, than
in the waking condition ; and from the state of rigidity and sensibility, they
can be aroused to a state of mobility, and exalted sensibility, either by being
rudely handled, or even by a breath of air. Nor is it requisite that it should
be done by the person who put them in the hypnotic state. It will follow
equally from the manipulations of any one else, or a current of cold air
impinging against the body, or from any mechanical contrivance whatever.
And, finally, the state cannot be induced, in any stage, unless with the
knowledge and consent of the party operated on. In this, hypnotism has
an advantage over medicine, for many powerful medicines have been used
for criminal purposes and can be administered without the knowledge of
the intended victim. I have vindicated hypnotism against the erroneous
prejudices cited against it as having an immoral tendency ; I did not, and do
not, claim for it the power of emplanting a principle. I do not say it
will make a vicious person virtuous ; but I am most confident it will not
make a virtuous person vicious. On the contrary, I feel assured that a
person of habitually correct feelings will, during the somnambulistic
condition, while consciousness lasts, manifest fully as much delicacy and
circumspection of conduct as in the waking state. Moreover, I have proved
that no one can be affected at all unless by voluntary compliance, and
consequently it has no right to be held as an agency which could be
converted to immoral purposes, as many have supposed. If any one would
say it may have this tendency, because in a state of torpor, insensibility, and
cataleptiform rigidity, the party is unconscious, immovable, and incapable
of self-defence, I beg to remind such individuals that the same argument
might be urged against the proper use of wine, spirits, or opium, because
excess in the use of either might be followed by like results. I am quite
certain no one can be affected by it, in any stage of the process, unless by
the free will and consent of the patient, which is at once sufficient to
exonerate the practice from the imputations of being capable of being
converted to immoral purposes, which has been so much insisted on to the
prejudice of animal magnetism. This has arisen from the mesmerisers
asserting that they have the power of overmastering patients irresistibly,
even whilst at a distance, by mere volitions and secret passes." Braid
stated that he had been careful in hypnotic experiments and had neither
met with accidents, nor seen a single case which he could not awaken in
two minutes.
Medical and Surgical Cases.
Braid records a good many minor surgical operations, performed
painlessly during hypnosis. He mentions the fact that in some instances
152 [Supplement.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwett.
general consciousness was unimpaired, and the patients remembered
afterwards all that had been done, although they had experienced no pain
during or after the operation. He also records an immense number of
medical cases which were cured or relieved by hypnotism. The majority of
these were functional nervous disorders, but remarkable results were also
obtained in many cases of organic disease. The clearing up of a long
standing corneal opacity, in a patient who was being hypnotised for the
relief of a rheumatic affection, is one of the most interesting. He also
obtained marked improvement in many cases of organic paralysis. In one
instance, the patient afterwards died from another apopletic seizure, and
post-mortem examination revealed evidence of the earlier organic mischief. In
this case, the symptoms had improved greatly under hypnotic treatment. "It
is of importance beforehand to inform the patient," he said, "that it is not
necessary for him to become unconscious in order to obtain the beneficial
effects of the nervous sleep. Many believe that a favourable result can only
be obtained if the consciousness has been completely lost, whereas, in
numerous cases, where the usual internal and external treatment has been
quite in vain, the most favourable results have been obtained by the impres
sion on the nervous system, even if the patient has noticed everything that
has taken place and upon awaking from the nervous sleep has remembered
everything which occurred during its duration." Braid stated he had ex
perienced this himself, when, on account of a severe attack of rheumatism,
he had hypnotised himself for eight or nine minutes and awoke completely
free from pain, although he had not lost consciousness in the least during
the so-called sleep.
General Observations.
Braid desired to place all his results and methods before his medical
brethren ; insisted that they alone ought to use hypnotism, and warned the
ignorant against tampering with such a powerful agency, which might
produce either good or evil according to the manner in which it was
managed and applied. "Hypnotism is capable," he said, " of curing many
diseases for which hitherto we knew of no remedy ; but none but a
professional man, well versed in anatomy, physiology and pathology, is
competent to apply it with general advantage to the patient, or credit to
himself, or the agency he employs. I must beg, however, that it be
particularly understood that I by no means hold up this agency as a universal
remedy. Whoever talks of a universal remedy, I consider must either be a
fool or a knave ; for, as diseases arise from totally opposite pathological
conditions, all rational treatment ought to be varied accordingly." In
reference to the successful therapeutic results that he had obtained by
hypnotism, Braid asserted that he could teach any intelligent medical man
to do what he had done, and that his object had always been not to mystify,
but to dispel all mystery. He also claimed that he was able to hypnotise
a larger percentage by his mechanical methods, than the mesmerisers could
do with the supposed aid of mysterious agencies. Hypnotism could be
applied with the greatest confidence by those who understood it, and benefit
might be derived from it, even in incurable cases ; neither pain, discomfort,
nor dangers being associated with it. In doubtful cases, it was sometimes
of service in obtaining a correct diagnosis.
Supplement.] James Braid; Ids Work and Writings. 153
Braid stated that he had taken every care to avoid deception in his
experiments, but did not expect, on this account, that his conclusions
would be accepted by others. He hoped, however, that his professional
brethren would investigate the subject coolly, with an honest desire to
arrive at truth. "Having myself been sceptical," he said, "I can make
every reasonable allowance for others. Every one should examine the
phenomena for themselves, but at the same time they should know
something about them." In illustration of the importance of this, he
referred to the fact that different subjects showed varying susceptibility
and that many people, even professional men, expected that all should
present uniform hypnotic phenomena. "It must be borne in mind," he
said, ' ' that the opposite mental conditions may glide into each other by the
most imperceptible degrees, or by the most abrupt transitions, according to
the modes of management ; and thus consciousness or unconsciousness, sound
sleep, dreaming, or somnambulism, will result, according as sensations or
ideas predominate, or are equally vivid. It is no unusual thing for
different parties to be testing, or calling for tests, for the opposite
conditions, at the same instant of time."
In many instances, Braid published the written testimony of others in
support of his alleged successful treatment of different patients by hypnotism,
and explained that he did this because " most unwarrantable interferences
had been resorted to by several medical men, in order to misrepresent some
of them. In one instance, in order to obtain an attested erroneous
document, the case was read to the patient, and others present, the very
reverse of what was written. However extraordinary such conduct may
appear, the fact of its occurrence was publicly proved, and borne testi
mony to by the patient and other parties present on the occasion when the
document was obtained."
He referred again and again to the almost incredible opposition which
he had to combat, at the hands both of the orthodox medical practitioner
and of the mesmerist, and complained that having been attacked in the
Zoist, the editors of that journal would not permit him to reply in their
pages. He sent his answer to the Association Medical Journal, as he
considered that the most natural medium for a member of the Provincial
Association to publish his defence in, but it was also refused there.
" Throughout the whole of my inquiries," he said, " my chief desire has
been to arrive at what could be rendered most practically useful for the
relief and cure of disease ; and I hesitate not to say that, in the hands of a
skilful medical man, who thoroughly understands the peculiar modes which
I have devised for varying the effects in a manner applicable to different
cases, hypnotism, besides being the speediest method for inducing the
condition is, moreover, capable of achieving all the good to be attained by
the ordinary mesmerising processes and much more." . . . "Of course
there is one point which renders hypnotism less an object of approbation
with a certain class of society, viz., that I lay no claim for it to produce
the marvellous or transcendental phenomena ; nor do I believe that the
phenomena manifested have any relation to a magnetic temperament, or
some peculiar or occult power, possessed in an extraordinary degree by the
operator. These are all circumstances which appeal powerfully to the feelings
154 [Supplement.
Br. J. Milne Bramtvell.
of the lovers of the marvellous, and therefore tell in favour of mesmerism ;
and, moreover, seeing that, for conducting the hypnotic processes with any
degree of certainty and success, I contend that, in many cases, a knowledge
of anatomy, physiology, pathology, and therapeutics are all requisite, it is
obvious that such requirements must be less calculated to secure the
approbation of iwn-professional mesmerists and amateurs, whose magnetic
creed taught them to believe that the mere possession by them of the
magnetic temperament,-—of a surcharge by nature, within their own bodies,
of a magnetic fluid or odyle,—is quite sufficient to enable them to treat any
case as efficiently as the most skilful medical man in the universe, simply
by walking up to the patient with the will and good intention of doing him
service, or by adding thereto, occasionally, the efficacy of mesmeric touches,
passes or manipulations." . . . " Like the originators of all new views,
however, hypnotism has subjected me to much contention ; for the sceptics,
from not perceiving the difference between my method and that of the
mesmerists, and the limited extent of my pretensions, were equally hostile
to hypnotism as they had been to mesmerism ; and the mesmerists, thinking
their craft was in danger—that their mystical idol was threatening to be
shorn of some of its glory by the advent of a new rival—buckled on their
armour, and soon proved that the odium mesmericnm was as inveterate as
the odium theologicum."
Historical.
Braid died suddenly on March 25th, 1860, according to some accounts
from apoplexy, according to others from heart disease ; he left a widow, son
and daughter. He maintained his active interest in hypnotism up to the end,
and three days before his death sent his last MS. to Dr. Azam, with the
following inscription :—' ' Presented to M. Azam, as a mark of esteem and
regard, by James Braid, Surgeon, Manchester, March 22nd, 1860."
Sympathetic notices of Braid's death appeared in the local papers and
different medical journals, all of which bore warm testimony to his
professional skill and high personal character. The Lancet drew attention
to the fact that, though he was best known in the medical world by his
theory and practice of hypnotism, he had also obtained wonderfully
successful results by operations in cases of club foot and other deformities^
which brought him patients from every part of the kingdom. Up to 1841 he
had operated on 262 cases of Talipes, 700 cases of Strabismus, and 23 cases
of spinal curvature.
In 1852, in the Preface to the Third Edition of " Magic, Witchcraft,
etc.," Braid stated that he now gave his view of all important hypnotic and
mesmeric theories, and hoped, by this means, to make up in some measure
for the delay in the publication of another edition of his work on
Hypnotism, which had long been out of print, and was frequently called
for. "That call," he said, "I hope shortly to be able to respond to, with
such fulness of detail as the importance of the subject merits ; more
particularly with regard to its practical application for the relief and cure
of some forms of disease, of which numerous interesting examples will be
adduced." At the conclusion of " The Physiology of Fascination, etc.," he
also said :—"It is my intention shortly to publish a volume entitled,
' Psycho-Physiology ; embracing Hypnotism, Monoideism and Mesmerism. '
supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 155
This work will comprise, in a connected and condensed form, the results of
the whole of my researches in this department of science ; and it will, more
over, be illustrated by cases in which hypnotism has been proved particularly
efficacious in the relief and cure of disease, with special directions how to
regulate the processes so as to adapt them to different cases and
circumstances." Shortly before his death, Braid contemplating publishing a
second edition of " Neurypnology," in France ; this was never done, nor
did the two proposed works above referred to ever see the light. All
Braid's books and articles are out of print, and of the former, Nos. 2, 3, 4,
6, and 7 (See list, pp. 127 and 128), are alone to be found in the Library
of the British Museum. I possess Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, and 8, as well as most
of his articles and two long MS. letters addressed to M. Highfield, Esq.,
Surgeon, dated respectively 28th October, and 16th November, 1842.
These letters contain an interesting resume of Braid's views on the
subjective nature of hypnotic phenomena ; some account of the hyperaesthesia
of the special senses and reference to successful medical cases, together with
the denial of the alleged dangers of hypnotism and of the supposed automa
tism of the subject.
In 1859, Dr. Azam, of Bordeaux, became acquainted with Braid's
hypnotic work, and commenced to investigate the subject for himself ; an
account of his experiments, with much reference to Braid, appeared in
the Archives de Medecine in 1860. About the same time Broca, who had
obtained marvellous results with Braid's methods, read a paper on Hypnotism
before the Academie des Sciences, which attracted much attention, and
Velpeau presented a copy of " Neurypnology " to the same Society. A
commission, composed of members of the four sections of the Institute, was
then formed to report on the subject. On hearing of this, Braid wrote to
the Academie to say how much pleasure Azam's brilliant results, and the
action of the Society, had given him.
Prom this date, the subject of hypnotism was never lost sight of in
France ; but it was not until 40 years after its original publication that
"Neurypnology" was translated by Dr. Jules Simon, who stated that
"Braid's researches procured for him numerous enemies ; but despite this he
pursued them with the precision of genius, and was able to add artificial
somnambulism to the pathology of the nervous system—a chapter which
the investigations of the greater number of modern neuro-pathologists have
confirmed."
Braid's first translator was W. Preyer, Professor of Physiology at the
University of Jena, who in 1881 published "The Discovery of Hypnotism."
This was a condensation of "Neurypnology," together with the translation
of the pamphlet sent by Braid to Azam in 1860, which had passed into the
possession of Dr. Beard of New York, who lent it to Preyer. The same
pamphlet is also translated into French and forms an appendix to Dr. Jules
Simon's "Neurypnology," published in 1883. In 1882, Preyer published
" Hypnotism," which consisted of a translation of all Braid's works, with the
exception of "Neurypnology," and "Satanic Agency."
I do not propose in this article to examine Braid's views critically, but
desire briefly to compare them with those of later workers in the same field.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell. [Supplement.
At first Braid believed in the purely physical origin of hypnotic
phenomena, and held that they could be induced by mechanical means in
subjects who were ignorant of hypnotism or mesmerism. This doctrine is
still held by Heidenhain and by certain members of the Salpetriere School.
The former says :—"People who have heard nothing about hypnotism, and
who do not know for what purpose they are being experimented on, can be
hypnotised. The hypnotic condition can be brought about without the
instrumentality of a living being, simply by certain definite physical
stimuli." Charcot and Gilles de la Tourette say, "Hypnotism c;.n be
induced by purely physical means, and a person can be hypnotised, so to
speak, unknown to himself." Before Braid appreciated the mental influence
in hypnosis, he was inclined to believe in phrenology, and the same cause
seems to have led the Salpetriere School into error as to the action of
magnets, metals and medicines in sealed tubes. That all these owed their
virtue to suggestion was clearly demonstrated by Braid ; yet, despite this
fact, the metallo-therapeutics of Burq were revived by Charcot and his
disciples, and Dr. Luys still plays with his india-rubber dolls and Professor
Benedikt with his magnets. An account, by Dr. F. Peterson and others, of
Professor Benedikt's theory of the action of magnets, and of the experimental
exposure of its fallacious nature, read before the New fork Academy of
Medicine, closely resembles what was said and done by Braid on the same
subject. According to Professor Benedikt, "certain forms of hysteria are
better treated by the magnet than by electricity, hydropathy or drugs.
When a magnet is applied to the sensitive vertebrae without removal of the
dress, the irritable patient soon becomes quiet and even quasi paralysed,
the muscles gradually relax, the respiration becomes sighing, consciousness
slowly disappears ; the resistance to conduction in motor nerves could easily
become absolute. The two poles have different effects, the magnet must be
employed with caution, patients may be injured by it." These statements
were tested in America ; magnets of enormous power were used and experi
ments made on human subjects and lower animals. A young dog was
subjected to magnetic influence for five hours ; but, instead of being
paralysed from "increased resistance to conduction in motor nerves," on
being liberated, it was more lively than before. The experimenters conclude
"that the human organism is in no wise appreciably affected by the most
powerful magnets known to modern science ; that neither direct nor reversed
magnetism exerts any perceptible influence upon the iron contained in the
blood, upon the circulation, upon ciliary or protoplasmic movements, upon
sensory or motor nerves, or upon the brain. The ordinary magnets used
in medicine," they say, "have a purely suggestive or psychic effect, and
would in all probability be quite as useful if made of wood."
The theories of the School of Nancy closely resemble Braid's later ones,
in which he regarded hypnotic phenomena from a psychical standpoint.
They are not alike, however, on all points. For, while both attach much
importance to "dominant ideas" and "suggestion," Braid regards the
latter simply as a method of inducing the phenomena, and lays stress on the
preliminary change which must be brought about in the nervous system,
while the Nancy School hold that suggestion explains all the phenomena of
hypnosis. Bernheim, for example, considers that there is nothing in
Supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 157
hypnotism but the name, and says, "hypnotism does not really create a
new condition ; there is nothing in induced sleep which may not occur in
the waking condition." In this Mr. Frederic Myers agrees with Braid,
and has clearly pointed out that suggestion does not explain the phenomena
of hypnosis, but is merely the artifice used by the operator in order to evoke
them.
Braid is in opposition to the Nancy School in reference to suggested
crimes and to what has been called the automatism of the hypnotised
subject. On this point he is more in accordance with the Salpetriere School
and his position has recently been greatly strengthened by the observations
of Delboeuf and others. With regard to this question, Mr. Frederic
Myers says, " Let us first observe what is the moral tone of the somnambule
when left to himself, as far as possible, without suggestion. In some
important points it is the precise opposite of the drunken condition.
Alcohol, apparently by paralysing first the higher inhibitory centres, makes
men boastful, impure, and quarrelsome. Hypnotism, apparently by a tendency
to paralyse lower appetitive centres, produces a contrary effect. The
increased refinement and increased cheerfulness of the developed somnam
bule is constantly noticed. It is a moot point whether any sleep-walker
has ever told an untruth ; and, so far as I know, no angry or impure
gesture has ever shown itself spontaneously in the hypnotic state. "
My own observations on this question have led me to conclusions even
more pronounced than Braid's. For while I am convinced that it is impossible
to commit or suggest crime during the alert stage of hypnosis, nothing that
I have seen has afforded me any ground for supposing that a crime could be
committed during the deep stage. As early as 1890, in an account of some
dental operations, performed during hypnotic anaesthesia, I drew attention
to the fact that there was no interference with the volition of the subject.
Braid, as we have seen, drew important distinctions between natural and
induced sleep. These are not recognised by the Nancy School. Bernheim
says, "In my opinion nothing, absolutely nothing, differentiates natural
and artificial sleep." He admits, however, one point of difference, namely,
that " in ordinary sleep, as soon as consciousness is lost, the subject is only
in relationship with himself. In induced sleep, the subject's mind retains
the memory of the person who has put him to sleep, whence the hypnotiser's
power of playing upon his imagination, or of suggesting dreams, and of
directing the acts which are no longer controlled by the weakened or absent
will. " With regard to the relationship between hysteria and hypnotism,
Braid agrees with the Nancy and is opposed to the Salpetriere School.
Braid and the Nancy School differ in reference to rapport. According to
Carpenter, who explained Braid's views in an article in the Quarterly
Review, rapport could be entirely explained on the principle of "dominant
ideas." The subject believed that the operator alone had power over him,
or could commuuicate with him ; this established the rapport. Rapport
was not discovered until long after the practice of mesmerism had come into
vogue, having been unknown to Mesmer and his immediate disciples ; and
its phenomena only acquired constancy and fixity, in proportion as its laws
were announced and received. Mesmerists, ignorant of rapport, produced a
great variety of remarkable phenomena, and yet never detected this rapport ;
158 [Supplement.
Dr. J. Milne Bramivell.
although they obtained immediate evidence of it, when once the idea had
been put into their own minds and thence transferred to their subjects. In
all the experiments Dr. Carpenter witnessed which seemed to indicate its
existence, the previous idea had either been present, or had obviously been
suggested by the methods employed to induce the mesmeric somnambulism ;
whilst in a large number of other cases, in which the subjects were not
habitues of the mesmeric seances, their consciousness was not confined to
the mesmeriser, or to those whom he placed en rapport with them, but was
equally extended to all around.
Braid, as we have already seen, observed that a somnambule, supposed
only to be en rapport with the hypnotiser, heard and obeyed the predictions
made by a third person. At a much later date, Liegeois drew attention to
the fact that when you had suggested to a somnambule that he could not
hear you, he was still able to do so. "If," he said, "you address him
directly, he will neither reply nor carry out your suggestion ; but if you speak
impersonally, speaking not in your own name, but as if with an internal
voice, then the subject will execute the suggestion. Under such circum
stances, if I said in reference to Camille, ' Camille is thirsty, Camille will
go to the kitchen and ask for a glass of water,' the order was obeyed."
The following is Liébeault's view:—"It is observed that nearly all
artificial somnambules are in relation by their senses with those who put
them to sleep, but only with them. The subject hears everything that the
operator says to him, but him only, provided the sleep is sufficiently deep.
He only hears the operator when he is addressed directly by him and not
when a third person is spoken to. This rapport extends to the other
senses." According to LWbeault, the subject remains en rapport with the
hypnotiser because he goes to sleep in thinking of him, and this does not
differ from what happens in ordinary sleep. A mother who goes to sleep
close to the cradle of her child, does not cease to watch over him during her
sleep, but watches only for him, and while she hears his slightest cry is
insensible to other louder sounds. The concentration of the subject's
attention upon the operator, and his mental retention of the idea of the one
who put him to sleep, is the cause of rapport.
From this it is evident that Braid believed rapport to be entirely the
result of suggestion, while Liébeault considers it to be due to a concentration
of attention which resulted naturally from the induction of hypnosis. My
own observations have led me to conclusions similar to those of Braid. In
subjects who did not know what was expected of them, and to whom neither
direct nor indirect suggestions of rapport were made, this condition did not
appear. On the contrary, they heard and obeyed any one who might address
them. In several instances, similar conditions were observed in the
subjects experimented on by the Hypnotic Committee of the Society for
Psychical Research. These facts apparently disprove Bernheim's conclusion
that the only difference which exists between natural and induced sleep is
the concentration of the subject's mind upon the operator,—a condition
which, he holds, not only explains rapport, but also the power of the
operator to influence the subject.
It is interesting to note that Braid, like Esdaile, recognised the analogy
between hypnosis and certain states produced by Cannabis Indica. No
Supplement.] •James Braid; his Work and Writings. 159
reference to these observations is to be found in Schrenck-Notzing's
monograph, " Die Bedeutung narcotischer Mittel fur den Hypnotismus. "
He refers, however, to O'Shaughnessy's experiments.
Some slight difference exists between Braid's view of the value of
passes, etc., and that of Professor Forel. While Braid believed that their
influence was mainly suggestive, he still held that they were capable of
producing some physical effect, though this might be destroyed or reversed
by direct suggestion. Forel, on the other hand, denies the physical
influence of mechanical processes on the ground that suggestion is capable
of altering their supposed action. He says, "The action of blowing upon
the face no longer awakens my subjects, because I suggested this would
remove pain, in place of awakening them. " From this he argues that the
act of blowing produces no result ; but would it not be equally logical to
contend that the prick of a pin produced no physical effect, because by
suggestion the patient, rendered insensible to pain, had been taught to
regard the pin prick as the signal to evoke some other condition 1
Braid forestalled Bernheim in discovering the value of hypnotic
treatment in organic paralysis and the power of the operator's touch to
assist the patient's mental concentration and thus recall lost memory.
Bernheim says, " If necessary, I lay my hand on the subject's forehead to
concentrate his attention ; he thinks deeply for an instant, without falling
asleep, and all the latent memories arise with great precision." This, both
as to the observed fact and its explanation, is an almost exact reproduction
of the words of Braid. Bernheim's views, as to the part played by
suggestion in ordinary medicine, were long ago expressed by Braid clearly
and at great length. Similar opinions have recently been advanced by
Dr. Wilks, the newly-elected President of the Royal College of Physicians,
and one of the ablest thinkers in the medical profession. According to him,
" To sit down in one's chair daily and write on a piece of paper the name of
some drug for every ailment without exception which comes under our
observation is in the present state of medicine an absurdity, and simply a
pandering to human weakness. I do not say that drugs are not useful in a
moral sense, I am merely contending that the method is not scientific, as
we usually apply this term. I know of no more successful practitioner than
the late Sir William Gull, and his treatment was rational, but he did not
credit any particular drug with the properties ascribed to it by the patient.
His prescription very often consisted of nothing but coloured water."
Dr. Wilks describes a " sixpenny doctor," at a cheap dispensary, who saw
on an average 70 patients during one evening, and whose almost universal
medicine was a mixture composed of sulphate of magnesia, burnt sugar and
infusion of quassia, and who said, "Always give medicines which produce
appreciable effects ; then also the mixture must taste like medicine, and if
it have a bad smell, the patient will be better satisfied." Dr. Wilks objects
" to the attempt to treat cases of disease on principle, when we possess no
principles ; we do not know sufficiently the action of drugs to do this, and
we know less of the meaning or significance of symptoms which we treat.'
With change of the pathological views of disease, he says, the whole method
of its treatment is changed again and again, and further chemical knowledge
frequently shows that the drugs we employ do not possess the qualities we
160 [Supplement,
Dr. J. Milne Bramivell.
have been in the habit of attributing to them. '' Medicine began as a
superstition, covered and surmounted by fancies and crude theories. By
getting rid of these, advance has been made ; but the fact is not yet
sufficiently realised that many of the old fancies still remain in the
profession."
Dr. Hack Tuke, in speaking of Sir Andrew Clark, said, '' His favourite
drugs were Bicarbonate of Potash and a vegetable bitter ; but neither drugs
nor diet formed the central factors of his treatment, or explained his
success. ' Suggestion ' lay at the root of it all. The term, however, is.
too mild, unless understood in the technical sense in which it has been
employed in recent times. In short, Sir Andrew out-Bernheimed Bern-
heim ; he was, in a word, the most successful hypnotist of his day."
In reference to the many important differences between the theories of
Braid and those just referred to, my own observations, I may state, accord
on most points with those of the earlier investigator. A careful study of
all Braid's writings has led me to the conclusion that, while much has
been lost by their neglect, little or no advance has been made upon
them until quite recent times. Where progress has been made, and
made alone, it has been in the development of the views already expressed
by Braid as regards the individuality, in opposition to the automatism, of
the hypnotised subject, and in a clearer estimate of what he recognised as
double-consciousness. Above everything, it is worthy of note how Braid at
once, by his early experiments, exploded the fallacies of the mesmerists,
which, till then, had flourished successfully, despite the abusive and
absolutely unscientific attacks of the combined medical press. In the writings
of Mr. Frederic Myers, more especially in "The Subliminal Conscious
ness," are to be found the ablest and clearest expression of these later
views. In reference to hypnotism, he justly says, "It is something more
and other than the mere production of trance that we have to deal with—
something more and other than the mere phenomena of fascination,
mimicry, rigidity, which are to be seen on every itinerant mesmeriser's
platform. Discussions on cerebral circulation, on inhibition and dynamo-
genesis, are useful and needful on the outskirts of the problem ; they may
give precision to our conception of the condition in which the deeper
phenomena begin ; but they cannot explain the novel powers to which those
phenomena introduce us,—the increased, the penetrating control of the brain
over the organism."
How is it that Braid's later theories have been almost entirely ignored ?
The answer is a difficult one. It is true that all his works have long been
out of print in this country, and are not to be found in their entirety, even
in the British Museum. On the other hand, his conclusions were largely
adopted by the scientists of his day. In illustration of this, it is only
necessary to refer to the works of the late Drs. Carpenter and John Hughes-
Bennett. The former gives a full exposition of Braid's views in his
"Principles of Mental Physiology," Sixth Edition, London, 1881,
" Mesmerism, Spiritualism, etc.," and elsewhere. The following passage,
from an article in the Quarterly Review for September, 1853, shows how
thoroughly Dr. Carpenter understood the importance attached by Braid to*
suggestion. "The clue to the marvel [mesmerism] was soon found by Mr.
supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 161
Braid, in the concentrated operation of the principle of suggestion ; [the
italics are Dr. Carpenter's] . . . and under the guidance of this idea,
he has subsequently followed up the investigation with great intelligence,
making no mystery of his proceedings, but courting investigation in every
possible way." Professor Bennett, in his "Textbook of Physiology,"
reproduced the explanation of "Braidism," both from the physiological and
psychological side, first given by him in 1851. This formed a part of the
lecture on hypnotism he gave annually to his students, in which he urged
them to investigate a subject destined to revolutionise the theory and
practice of medicine.
The only recent English writer, as far as I know, who refers to Braid's
later works, is C. W. Sutton in the "Dictionary of National Biography,"
where he states that some of them have been translated into French and
German. Despite Preyer's translations, Braid's advanced theories seem to
be little recognised in Germany and, as far as I have observed, Moll alone
refers to them, and in the Zeibschrift fiir Hypnotismus, for December,
1892, he warmly acknowledges Germany's indebtedness to Preyer for his
translations and states that the later works are a distinct advance upon
" Neurypnology," especially in their psychological explanation of hypnotic
phenomena. At the same time, he evidently does not realise how entirely
Braid had forestalled the " Suggestion " theory of the Nancy School. He
admits, however, that " notwithstanding that many researchers have referred
to and valued Braid's writings, the modern works are only in the smallest
degree a continuation of his."
In France, Braid's later theories are equally ignored, which is all the
more surprising when one remembers that a translation of his last MS. was
published in 1883 as a supplement to "Neurypnology." This gives many
of his advanced views, and clearly states his reasons for substituting them
for his earlier ones and for changing the term hypnotism into that of
monoideism. It also contains numerous references to verbal suggestion.
Bernheim refers to it, but has evidently entirely failed to grasp its importance,
and merely says that he agrees with Brown-Sequard that Braid did not guard
sufficiently against suggestion and that " it seems that at the end of his life,
Braid felt some doubt about his experiments relative to phreno-hypnotism.
In his last memoir, a remarkable resume of his work, addressed to the
Academy of Science in 1860, at the time of the experiments of Azam and
Broca, he passes by his phreno-hypnotic researches in silence." Bernheim
also mentions Braid's work, "The Power of the Mind over the Body," but
only in connection with Grimes' "electro-biological researches."
While I have tried to show, both as a point of historical interest and in
justice to Braid, how he had anticipated many of the most important
observations of the School of Nancy, I do not wish to undervalue the
services of that School, and more especially those of its founder. Braid's
researches were undoubtedly the exciting cause of the hypnotic revival in
France, but at that time little or nothing was known of any of his works,
except " Neurypnology," and his last MS. was not published in France until
1883. To Lieheault we owe practically the entire development of modern
hypnotism. Independently he arrived at the conclusion that the mental
m
162 [Supplement.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
condition was the important one in hypnosis, and suggestion the main factor
in producing its phenomena, and successfully combated the errors of the
Salpetriere School. Another point in reference to their career is worthy of
note. Braid's views at once brought him fame. His books sold rapidly,
the demand for them exceeding his power of supply. The medical journals
were open to him, to an extent which may well excite envy in those
interested in the subject at the present day. When Liébeault published his
classical work, " Du Sommeil et des Etats analogues," six copies alone were
sold. His statements only found sceptics, his methods of treatment were
rejected without examination, and he was laughed at and despised by all.
For many years he devoted himself entirely to the poor, and long refused to
accept a fee, lest he should be regarded as attempting to make money by un
recognised methods. Even in his later days, fortune never came to him, and
his services—services, which he himself, with true modesty, described as the
contribution of a single brick to the edifice many were trying to build—only
began to be appreciated when old age compelled him to retire from active
work. Though his researches have been recognised, it is certain that they
have not been estimated at their true value, and that members of a younger
generation have reaped the reward which his devotion of a lifetime failed to
obtain.
References.
In the Medical Times ;—
1. "The New Theory of Animal Magnetism." Vol. V., 1841-42, p. 175.
Editorial account of a lecture given by Mr. Duncan, on Animal Magnetism,
at the Hanover Square Rooms, on December 31st, 1841. The lecturer,
who had adopted Braid's views, explained them.
2. "Animal Magnetism." Vol. V., 1841-42, p. 283. Editorial account
of two lectures by Braid, one on March 1st, 1842, at Hanover Square, and
the other next day at the London Tavern.
3. "On Mr. Braid's Experiments." By Dr. Herbert Mayo. Vol. VI.,
1842, p. 11.
4. " Mesmerism." Vol. VI., 1842, p. 47. Editorial account of two
lectures delivered by Braid.
5. "Hypnotism, or Mr. Braid's Mesmerism." Vol. X., 1844, p. 98.
Letter to Editor from "S.," in praise of Braid's researches and of the open-
mindedness of the Medical Times.
6. "Conversazione on Hypnotism." Vol. X., 1844, p. 137. Editorial
account of the Conversazione held by James Braid, at the Royal Manchester
Institution, on April 22nd, 1844, by invitation of the Committee.
7. "Jenny Lind and Hypnotism." Vol. XVI., 1847, p. 602. An
interesting account of Braid's experiments to show the power of somnambu
lists in imitating languages and song.
8. "Operations under Hypnotism in Paris." Vol. XIX., 1859, p. 646.
Account of Azam, with reference to Braid.
9. "Mr. Braid of Manchester." Vol. I., 1860 [new series], p. 355.
Obituary notice.
supplement.] James Braid; his Work and Writings. 163
10. "The late Mr. Braid." Vol. I., 1860 [new series], p. 396. Letter
to Editor from A. W. Close, F.R.C.S., exposing the absurdity of certain
statements in the above account of Mr. Braid's death.
In the Lancet :—
11. "Hypnotism in Paris." Vol.11., 1859, p. 650. Article referring
to Azam, Velpeau, Broca, etc., and stating that they had copied the methods
of Braid and Esdaile.
12. '. Sudden Death of Mr. James Braid, Surgeon, of Manchester."
Vol. I., 1860, p. 335.
In the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal :—
13. Critical article on Braid's '' Observations on Trance or Human
Hybernation." Vol. LXXIV, 1850, p. 421.
14. "Abstract of a Lecture on Electro-Biology," delivered at the Royal
Institution, Manchester, on March 26th, 1851, by James Braid. Vol.
LXXVI., 1851, p. 239.
15. "Death of Mr. James Braid, Surgeon, of Manchester." Vol. V.,
1859-60, p. 1068.
16. "Case of Contracted Foot, with severe pain, cured by Mesmerism."
The Zoist, Vol. III., 1845-46, p. 339. Article by Elliotson, referring to
Braid.
17. ' ' Researches in Magnetism, Electricity, Heat, Light, Crystallisation,
and Chemical Attraction in their Relations to Vital Force." By Karl, Baron
von Reichenbach, Ph.D. Translated by William Gregory, M.D., London,
1850.
18. The British and Foreign Medico-Chirurgical Review, Vol. VIII.,
July to October, 1851, Article V., p. 378. An article on Mesmerism,
Magnetism, and Hypnotism, with favourable reference to Braid and his
views.
19. "Electro-Biology and Mesmerism," The Quarterly Review, Vol.
XCIII., 1853. Article VI., p. 501. This article, which is unsigned, is
believed to be by Dr. Carpenter, and gives an interesting account of Braid's
work and theories.
20. Death of Mr. Braid, Surgeon. The Manchester Courier, Saturday,
March 31st, 1860. This article gives an account of Braid's life and
writings.
21. "Observations on Animal Magnetism." By M. Andral. London
Medical Gazette, Vol. II., 1832-33, p. 792.
22. " Effects of Mental Attention on Bodily Organs." Medical Notes and
Reflections. By Henry Holland, M.D., London, 1839, p. 64.
23. "Chapters on Mental Physiology." By Sir H. Holland, Bart.
Second Edition, revised and enlarged, London, 1858.
24. "The Elements of Materia Medica and Therapeutics." By Jonathan
Pereira, M.D., F.R.S., andL.S. Second Edition, enlarged and improved.
Vol. II. London, 1842, p. 1097.
M 2
164 [Supplement.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
25. "Electrical Psychology ; or the electrical philosophy of mental impres
sions, including a new philosophy of sleep and of consciousness," from the
works of the Rev. John Bovee Dods and Prof. J. S. Grimes. Revised and
edited by H. G. Darling, etc. London, Glasgow, printed 1851.
26. "Spirit Manifestations examined and explained; Judge Edwards
refuted ; or an exposition of the involuntary powers and instincts of the
human mind." By J. B. Dods, New York, 1854.
27. " The Philosophy of Mesmerism and Electrical Psychology . . .
comprised in two courses of lectures." By J. B. Dods. Edited by J. Burns.
London, 1876.
28. " Monoideism." Text-book of Physiology, etc. By John Hughes
Bennett, M.D., etc., 1871, part II., pages 357 to 361.
29. "Mesmerism, Spiritualism, etc." By William B. Carpenter, M.D. ,
etc., 1877.
30. " Principles of Mental Physiology, etc." By William B. Carpenter,
M.D., etc., Sixth Edition, 1881. Both these works contain much reference
to Braid's experiments and theories.
31. "Hypnotism." By G. J. Romanes. Nineteenth Century, September,
1880, p. 474.
32. "Braid, James." By C. W. Sutton. Dictionary of National
Biography. Vol. VI., p. 198. London, 1886.
33. "Hypnotism or Animal Magnetism." By Rudolph Heidenhain,
M.D. Translated from the Fourth German Edition by L. C. Wooldridge,
M.D., D.Sc. With a Preface by G. J. Romanes, M.A., F.R.S. Second
Edition, London, 1888.
34. " Suggestive Therapeutics ; A Treatise on the Nature and Uses of
Hypnotism." By H. Bernheim, M.D. Translated from the Second and
Revised Edition by Christian A. Herter, M.D. Second Edition. Edinburgh
and London, 1890.
35. "Braidism." By H. Charlton Bastian. " A Dictionary of Medicine."
Edited by Richard Quain, M.D. London, 1882. Vol. I., p. 131.
" Mesmerism." By H. Charlton Bastian, 1882. Vol. II., p. 972.
36. " Stray Thoughts on some Medical Subjects." By Samuel Wilks,
M.D., F.R.S. The Lancet, November 24th, 1894.
37. "Extractions under Hypnotism." By J. Milne Bramwell, M.B., and
W. Arthur Turner, L.D.S. The Journal of the British Dental Association.
March, 1890, p. 153.
38. " The Stages of Hypnotism." By Edmund Gurney. Proceedings of
the Society for Psychical Research. Vol. II., 1884, p. 61.
39. " L'Hypothese du Magnétisme Animal." Proceedings of the Society
for Psychical Research. Vol. XI., December, 1895, p. 599.
40. "L'Hypothese du Magnetisme Animal." Journal of the Society for
Psychical Research, March, 1896, p. 221.
supplement.] James Braid ; his Work and Writings. 165
41. "Hypnotism in the Hysterical." By J. M. Charcot and Gilles de
la Tourette. A Dictionary of Psychological Medicine. Edited by D.
Hack Tuke, M.D., 1892. Vol. L, p. 606.
42. "Some Physiological Experiments with Magnets at the Edison
Laboratory." By Frederick Peterson, M.D., and A. E. Kennelly, Chief
Electrician, Edison Laboratory, Vice-President American Institute of Elec
trical Engineers. Read before the Section in Neurology of the New York
Academy of Medicine, October 14, 1892.
43. "The Subliminal Consciousness." By F. W. H. Myers. Proceedings
of the Society for Psychiccd Research. Vol. VII., February, 1892, p. 298.
44. " On Criminal Suggestion." By Professor J. Delbœuf. The Monist,
April, 1892, p. 363.
45. " Human Personality in the Light of Hypnotic Suggestion. " By F.
W. H. Myers. Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research. Vol. IV.,
1887, p. 1.
46. "Journal du Magnétisme." Rédigé par une Société de Magnétiseurs
et de Médecins. Sous la direction de M. le Baron du Potet. Vol. IV., 1847,
p. 209; Vol. VIII., 1849, p. 66 ; Vol. X., 1851, p. 510; Vol. XIV, 1855,
p. 400 ; Vol. XIX., 1860, pp. 62, 105. Du Potet refers to Braid's methods
and theories, and also gives an account of a somnambule in Paris who could
imitate languages and song.
47. " Note sur le sommeil nerveux ou hypnotisme." Par le Dr. Azam de
Bordeaux, Archives générales de médecine, cinquième série, Tome XV., p. 5.
Paris, 1860.
48. " Memoirs d'un Magnétiseur." Par Ch. Lafontaine. Tome Premier.
Paris, 1860, pp. 311-314.
49. " Neurypnologie ; Traité du sommeil nerveux ou hypnotisme. " Par
James Braid. Traduit de l'anglais par le Dr. Jules Simon. Avec Préface
de C. E. Brown-Séquard. Paris, 1883.
50. " De la suggestion et du somnambulisme dans leurs rapports avec la
jurisprudence et la médecine légale. " Par Jules Liégeois, Professeur à la
Faculté de Droit de Nancy. Paris, 1889.
51. " Mystères des sciences occultes. " Par un Initié. Paris [no date].
[A short account of Braid is given, pp. 296-300, and at p. 289 is to found
the only portrait of Braid with which I am acquainted.] Facsimile d'une
lithographie d'après nature, imprimée à Liverpool en 1854.
52. " Cours théorique et pratique du Braidisme ou hypnotisme nerveux."
Par M. le Dr. Phillips [Durand de Gros] 1860.
53. "Suggestions Criminelles Hypnotiques; Arguments et faits à
l'appui." Par M. le Dr. Liébeault. Revue de l'Hypnotisme, Avril, 1895, p. 289.
54. " De la suggestion envisagée au point de vue pédagogique." Par le
Dr. Bernheim. Revue de l'Hypnotisme. Vol. I., 1887, p. 129.
55. " Ephémérides de l'Hypnotisme. " This contains an account of Braid
without reference to his later works. Revue de l'Hypnotisme. Vol. II.,
1888, p. 276.
166 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
56. " Le Sommeil provoque; et les Etats analogues." Par le Dr. A. A.
Liébeault. Paris, 1889.
57. "Suggestions Hypnotiques Criminelles." Lettre au Docteur Lie-
beault, par M. le Dr. Durand [de Gros], p. 8. Revue de VHypnotisms,
Juillet, 1895.
58. " L'Hypnose et les Suggestions criminelles." Par J. Delbceuf.
Revue de VHypnotisme. Fevrier, 1895, p. 225. Mars, 1895, p. 260.
59. " Die Entdeckung des Hypnotismus. " Von W. Preyer. Berlin, 1881.
60. "Der Hypnotismus." Ausgewahlte Schriften von J. Braid. Deutsch
herausgegeben von W. Preyer. Berlin, 1882.
61. " Literaturbericht," von Dr. med. Albert Moll in Berlin. Zeitschrift
fur Hypnotismus, December, 1892, p. 107.
62. "Die Bedeutung narcotischer Mittel fiir den Hypnotismus, mit
besonderer Beriicksichtigung des indischen Hanfes." Von Dr. Frh. von
Schrenck-Notzing. Schriften der Gesellschaft fiir psychologische Forschung.
Heft 1. Leipzig, 1891.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
By F. W. H. Myees.
It has been often explained in these Proceedings that the success or
otherwise of our investigations must necessarily depend largely upon the
amount of first-hand testimony which we receive from voluntary correspon
dents. These correspondents are not all of them equally familiar with
philosophical and medical terms ; nor are they all of them of English-
speaking nationality. It is important, nevertheless, that they should readily
and exactly understand the drift of our inquiries ; and we have been
repeatedly asked to furnish a Glossary of the unfamiliar words which those
inquiries oblige us to use. I have here attempted to comply with that
request, and have explained some words and phrases which fall under three
main heads.
1. Words in common philosophical or medical use, to which no new
shade of meaning is given in this inquiry, e.g. ecmnesia. Introducing a
few of these words for the ordinary reader's convenience, I have generally
taken the definition from Hack Tuke's Dictionary of Psychological Medicine
(London : Churchill, 1892), which is the most authoritative—almost the only
—English work of its kind.
2. Words or phrases in themselves not new, but used in these studies
with some special significance ;—as for instance " systematised anaesthesia,"
" negative hallucination." These two phrases are constantly used by French
writers on hypnotism ; but mere familiarity with the words themselves would
not explain their meaning in that context to a reader fresh to hypnotic
discussions.
3. A few words, distinguished by an asterisk, for which I am myself
responsible. I must leave it to my readers to judge how far these words are
supplement.] Glossary of Terms used in Psychical Research. 167
likely to be useful. But I would suggest that when a subject so novel as
ours is made the subject of discussion in many countries, there is a
convenience in using words of Greek or Latin derivation, which can be
adapted to all languages, and can be made to bear a clearly defined
signification.
Glossary.
Aboulia.— Loss of power of willing. I have used the word hyperboidia to
express that increased power over the organism, resembling the power which
we call will when it is exercised over the voluntary muscles, which is seen
in the bodily changes effected by self-suggestion.
After-image.—The picture seen as though in the eye itself after looking
at a bright object. It is called positive when it reproduces, negative when it
reverses the true illumination or colours of the actual object. After-images
are regarded as retinal or entoptic, belonging to the interior of the eye.
After-images must be distinguished from memory-images, which may appear
spontaneously, or may be summoned by an effort of will, long after the
original sight of the object.
Agent.—The person on whose condition a telepathic impression seems to
be dependent ; who seems to initiate the telepathic transmission.
Alternation of personality.—See Disintegration of personality.
Anaesthesia, or the loss of sensation generally, must be distinguished
from analgesia, or the loss of the sense of pain alone. Many hypnotic
subjects are analgesic but not anaesthetic. Systematised anasthesia or
negative hallucination signifies the condition of an entranced subject who has
been told (for instance) that Mr. A. is not in the room, while he is in reality
present. The subject may thus be said to have a negative hallucination, or
to have been deprived of a certain group or system of perceptions, in that
he fails to see Mr. A. Other words descriptive of the general sensory con
dition are dysesthesia, impaired or painful sensation, paresthesia, erroneous
or morbid sensation, hyperesthesia, unusually keen sensation, which may or
may not be a morbid symptom. Hyperaesthesia may be peripheral, when it
affects nerve-endings near the surface of the body, or central, when the
excessive sensitiveness belongs to the central sensorium ;—such parts,
namely, of the brain as are concerned in receiving or generating sensory
images and impressions. Hemi-anwsthesia means anaesthesia of half the
body, the median line (down the middle of the body) separating normal
sensation from absence of sensation. Anaesthetic zones or patches (formerly
deemed characteristic of witches) are common in hysteria. Cenmsthesia
means that consensus or agreement of many organic sensations which is a
fundamental element in our conception of personal identity. Finally I have
suggested the word *pano?sthesia to express the undifferentiated sensory
capacity of the supposed primal germ.
Aphasia.—Incapacity of coherent utterance, not caused by structural
impairment of the vocal organs, but by lesion of the cerebral centres for
speech. Distinguished from congenital or acquired aphonia, due to paralysis
or imperfect approximation of the vocal cords, and also from hysterical
mutism, when the patient is obstinately and involuntarily silent, although the
vocal organs are uninjured and the cerebral centres of speech are only
168 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
functionally affected, with no visible lesion. All the four forms of verbalisa
tion are subject to separate disorders of the type of aphasia. Lack of power
to write words is called agraphia or agraphy ; lack of power to understand
words written, alexia or word-blindness ; lack of power to understand words
uttered, word-deafness. In each case the trouble may lie in the brain and not
in the organ of sense or other organs. For instance, a man's sight even for
printed musical notes may be unimpaired, while yet he is unable to under
stand printed words.
Attaque de sommeil.—This French term is more correct than the word
" trance," to express those spontaneous lapses into prolonged and profound
sleep which sometimes occur in hysterical subjects.
Automatism.—The words automatism and automatic are used in some
what different senses by physiologists and psychologists. Thus Professor
Foster says, (Foster's Physiology, 5th Edition, p. 920) "We speak of an
action of an organ or of a living body as being spontaneous or automatic
when it appears to be not immediately due to any changes in the circum
stances in which the organ or body is placed, but to be the result of changes
arising in the organ or body itself and determined by causes other than the
influences of the circumstances of the moment. The most striking automatic
actions of the living body [are] those which we attribute to the working of
the will and which we call voluntary or volitional." That is to say, to the
physiologist an action is "self-moved" when it is determined, not by the
environment, but by the organism itself. The word thus becomes hardly
more than a synonym for spontaneous. The psychologist, on the other hand,
regards an action as " self-moved " when it is determined in an organism
apart from the central will or control of that organism. Thus when an act
at first needing voluntary guidance, by practice comes to need such guidance
no longer, it is called " secondarily automatic." 1 have used the word in a
wider sense, as expressing such images as arise, as well as such movements
as are made, without the initiation, and generally without the concurrence, of
conscious thought and will. Sensory automatism will thus include visual and
auditory hallucinations ; motor automatism will include messages written
without intention (automatic script) or words uttered without intention (as in
" speaking with tongues," trance-utterances, etc.). I ascribe these processes
to the action of submerged or subliminal elements in the man's being. Such
phrases as "reflex cerebral action," or "unconscious cerebration," give
therefore, in my view, a very imperfect conception of the facts.
Catalepsy.—" An intermittent neurosis, characterised by the patient's
inability to change the position of a limb, while another person can place the
muscles in a state of flexion or contraction as he will."—Tuke's Diet.
Catalepsy may also be induced as a stage of hypnotism ; although Charcot's
view which erected catalepsy, lethargy,somnambulism (their relative positions
sometimes varied) into three typical or necessary stages in a hypnotic
trance is now commonly considered to have been a too hasty generalisation
from the habits—largely imitative—of the group of hypnotic patients at the
Salpetriere, (a hospital in Paris.)
Census of hallucinations.—An inquiry undertaken to determine the
frequency of hallucinations in sane and healthy persons ; described in
S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. X.
supplement.] Glossary of Terms used in Psychical Research. 169
Centre of consciousness.—The place where a percipient imagines himself to
■be. The point from which he seems to himself to be surveying some
phantasmal scene.
Clairvoyance (Lucidite).—The faculty or act of perceiving, as though
visually, with some coincidental truth, some distant scene, used sometimes,
but hardly properly, for transcendental vision, or the perception of beings
regarded as on another plane of existence. Clairaudience is generally used
of the sensation of hearing an internal (but in some way veridical) voice.
I have preferred to use the term *telaisthesia for distant perception. For
the faculty has seldom any close analogy with an extension of sight ; the
perception of distant scenes being often more or less symbolical and in other
-ways out of accord with what actual sight would show in the locality of the
vision. On the other hand, telcesthesia merges into telepathy, since we cannot
say how far the perception of a distant scene may in essential be the per
ception of the content of a distant mind.
Coincidental.—This word is used when there is some degree of coincidence
in time of occurrence between a supernormal incident and an event at a
distance, which makes it seem probable that some causal connection exists
between the two. An apparition, for instance, seen at or about the
itime when the person whose phantasm is seen dies, is a coincidental
.apparition.
Collective.—Applied to cases where several persons together perceive a
hallucination or phantasm.
Control.—This word is used of the intelligence which purports to
communicate messages which are written or uttered by the automatist,
jsensitive, or medium. The word is used for convenience' sake, but should not
imply that the source of the messages need be other than the automatist's
own subliminal intelligence.
*Gosmopathic.—Open to the access of supernormal knowledge or emotion,
apparently from the transcendental world, but whose precise source we have
no means of defining.
Crystal-gazing.—The act of looking into a crystal, glass ball, or other
speculum, or reflecting surface, with the object of inducing hallucinatory
pictures. The person doing this is called a seer or scryer. The pictures of
course exist in the mind "and not in the crystal. See Shell-hearing.
Delusion and Delusive.—Applied generally to all cases whether of halluci
nation or illusion, when there is no corresponding reality whatever ;—i.e.,
when the case is not coincidental or in any other way veridical.
*Dextro-cerebral (opposed to *Sinistro-cerebral) ; of left-handed persons,
as employing preferentially the right hemisphere of the brain.
Dimorphism.—In crystals, the property of assuming two incompatible
forms ; in plants and animals, difference of form between members of
the same species. Used of a condition of alternating personalities ; a
kind of psychical dimorphism in which memory, character, faculty, etc.,
present themselves at different times in different forms in the same person.
Similarly, polymorphism is the property of assuming many forms.
Discarnate.—Disembodied, opposed to incarnate. Used of that part of
man which still subsists after bodily death.
170 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
Disintegration ofpersonality.—Used of any condition where the sense of
personality is not unitary and continuous ; especially when secondary and
transitory personalities intervene ; as for instance when a hysterical subject
calls herself at one time Rose, at another Adrienne, etc., with separate
chains of memory for each condition.
Dissolutive.—Opposed to Evolutive, of changes which tend not towards
progress but towards decay.
Dynamogeny.—The increase of nervous energy by appropriate stimuli ;
often opposed to inhibition.
Ecmnesia.—A gap in memory : " a form of amnesia [forgetfulness] in
which there is a normal memory of occurrences prior to a given date, with
loss of memory of what happened for a certain time after that date."—
Tuke's Did. It should be added that the gap of memory may include
some period of time previous to the shock or accident which caused it.
*Entencephalic.—On the analogy of entoptic ; of sensations, etc., which
have their origin within the brain, not in the external world.
Externalise.—This word is used to represent the process by which an
idea or impression on the percipient's mind is transformed into a phantasm
apparently outside him.
Hallucination.—Any supposed sensory perception which has no objective
counterpart within the field of vision, hearing, etc., is termed a hallucination.
Hallucinations may be delusive orfalsidical, when there is nothing whatever
to which they correspond ; or veridical, when they correspond (as those of
which we treat generally correspond) to real events happening elsewhere. A.
pseudo-hallucination is a quasi-percept not sufficiently externalised to rank
as a " full-blown " hallucination. Contrast with illusion and delusion.
Hyperboulia.—See Aboulia.
Hyperkinesia.— Defined in Tuke's Dict, as " over-activity of the memory,
a condition in which past acts, feelings, or ideas, are brought vividly to the
mind, which, in its natural condition, has wholly lost the remembrance of
them." In my view the subliminal memory retains these remembrances
throughout, and their supraliminal evocation implies an increased grasp of
natural faculty. *Panmnesia would imply a potential recollection of all
impressions.
*Hyperpromethia.—Supernormal power of foresight ; attributed to the
subliminal self as a hypothesis by which to explain premonitions without
assuming either that the future scene is shown to the percipient by any
mind external to his own, or that circumstances which we regard as future
are in any sense already existent.
Hypnagogic. Illusions hypnagogiques (Maury) are the vivid illusions of
sight or sound—" faces in the dark," etc.—which sometimes accompany the
oncoming of sleep. To similar illusions accompanying the departure of
sleep, as when a dream-figure persists for a few moments into waking life,
I have given the name *hypnopompic.
Hypnotism.—See Mesmerism.
Hysteria.—"A disordered condition of the nervous system, the anato
mical seat and nature of which are unknown to medical science, but of
which the symptoms consist in well-marked and very varied disturbances of
supplement.] Glossary of Terms used in Psychical Research. 171
nerve-function. "—Encyc. Brit. For further definition the reader must be
referred to various papers shown in the indices to these Proceedings.
Hysterical blindness, contractures, mutism, oedema, paralysis, etc.,
signify affections not dependent on any discoverable lesion, but on the
defects of nervous co-ordination characteristic of hysteria. Such affections,
even when of long standing, may quite suddenly disappear.
Hysterogenous zones.—Points or tracts on the skin of a hysterical person
pressure on which will induce a hysterical attack. Similarly, hypnogenous
zones are regions by pressure on which sleep is induced.
Ideational.—Used of impressions which convey some distinct notion, but
not of sensory nature.
Illusion.—The misinterpretation of some object actually present to sight
or hearing, as when a hanging coat is taken for a man, a ringing in the ears
for the sound of a bell, etc.
Imaginal.—A word used of characteristics belonging to the perfect insect
or imago ;—and thus opposed to larval ;—metaphorically applied to transcen
dental faculties shown in rudiment in ordinary life.
Induced. —-Of phantasms, etc., intentionally produced.
Levitation.—A raising of objects from the ground by supposed supernormal
means : especially of living persons, asserted in the case of S. Joseph of
Copertino, and many other saints ; of D. D. Home, and of W. Stainton
Moses.
Medium.—A person through whom communication is deemed to be carried
on between living men and spirits of the departed. As commonly used in
spiritist literature, this word is liable to the objection that it assumes a
particular theory for phenomena which admit of explanation in various
ways. It is often better replaced by automatist or sensitive.
Mesmerism.—This is the oldest widely-recognised word for a large group
of phenomena discussed in many papers in these Proceedings. The name
need imply nothing more than the fact that Mesmer was the conspicuous
introducer of many of the phenomena to the European public. But it is
also specially used to imply something of his theory of their production, by
a vital effluence from the mesmeriser, conveyed partly by mesmericpasses, or
wavings of the hands. The term Animal Magnetism implies a somewhat
different theory. The term Hypnotism, when first started by Braid, was
again meant to imply a theory of the genesis of these phenomena, but it is
now generally used with no theoretical implication.
Message. —Used for any communication, not necessarily verbal, from one
to another stratum of the automatist's personality, or from an external
intelligence to one or other stratum of the automatist. Thus any automatic
script may be called a message, even if incoherent.
Metalkesthesia.—A form of sensibility alleged to exist which enables
some hypnotised or hysterical subjects to discriminate between the contacts
of various metals by sensations not derived from their ordinary properties of
weight, etc.
*Methectic.—Of communications between one stratum of a man's
intelligence and another ; as when he writes messages whose origin is in
172 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myert
his own subliminal self. Some word is needed" to express this novel
conception ; and Plato's use of the word iU8e^is, participation, (Parm. 132D)
suggests methecfcic as the most appropriate term of Greek origin.
Mirror-writing (ecriture renversee, Spiegel-schrift). Writing so inverted, or,
more exactly, perverted, as to resemble writing reflected in a mirror, or
blotted off on to a sheet of blotting paper. This form of writing is natural
to some left-handed persons. It also frequently appears in automatic script.
Mnemonic chain.— A continuous series of memories, especially when the
continuity persists after an interruption. See Disintegration ofpersonality.
Monition.—A message involving counsel or warning, when that counsel
is based upon facts already in existence, but not normally known to the
person who receives the monition.
Motor.—Used of an impulse to action not carrying with it any definite
idea or sensory impression.
Negative hallucination.—See Anesthesia.
Objectify.—To externalise a phantom in three dimensions ; to see it as a
solid object fitted into the waking world.
Percipient.—The correlative term to Agent ; the person on whose mind
the telepathic impact falls ; or more generally, the person who perceives any
motor or sensory impression.
Phantasm and Phantom.—Phantasm and phantom are, of course, mere
variants of the same word ; but since phantom has become generally
restricted to visual hallucinations, it is convenient to take phantasm to cover
a wider range, and to signify any hallucinatory sensory impression, whatever
sense—whether sight, hearing, touch, smell, taste, or diffused sensibility—
may happen to be affected.
Point de rephre.—Guiding mark. Used of some (generally inconspicuous)
real object which a hallucinated subject sees along with his hallucination,
and whose behaviour under magnification, etc., suggests to him similar
changes in the hallucinatory figure.
Polyzoism.—The property, in a complex organism, of being composed of
minor and quasi-independent organisms (like the polyzoa or '' sea-mats ").
This is sometimes called ' ' colonial constitution, " from animal colonies ; but
the metaphor implied is not always suitable. The word polypsychism is
sometimes used to express the psychical aspect of polyzoism.
Post-hypnotic.—Used of a suggestion given during the hypnotic trance,
but intended to operate after that trance has ceased.
Precognition.—A knowledge of impending events supernormally acquired.
Premonition.—A supernormal indication of any kind of event still in
the future.
*Preeersion.—A tendency to characteristics assumed to lie at a further
point of the evolutionary progress of a species than has yet been reached ;
opposed to reversion.
Proleptic.—Anticipatory ; assuming a knowledge of a fact not yet
communicated. A dream is called proleptic when it assumes some fact
which is only made known to the dreamer later in the dream. For instance,
a person in one's dream may ask one a riddle, and not tell one the answer for
Supplement.] Glossary of Terms used in Psychical Research. 173
some time ; yet a knowledge of that answer must have existed in one's mind
all the time, since one did in fact ask the riddle oneself.
*Promnesia. —The paradoxical sensation of recollecting a scene which is
only now occurring for the first time ; the sense of the deja vu. The term
paramnesia, which is sometimes given to this sensation, should, I think,
cover all forms of erroneous memory, and cannot without confusion be used
to express specifically this one anomalous sensation.
Psycho-therapeutics.—"Treatment of disease by the influence of the
mind on the body."—Tuke's Diet. All suggestion of course comes under
this head.
Quasi-percept. —The more or less objectified phantasm, which the
percipient does, in a certain sense, perceive.
Reciprocal.—Used of cases where there is both agency and percipience at
each end of the telepathic chain, so that (in a complete or developed case) A
perceives P, and P perceives A also.
*Retrocognition.—Knowledge of the Past, supernormally acquired.
Secondary personality.—It sometimes happens, as the result of shock,
disease, or unknown causes, that a man or woman experiences an alteration
of memory and character, amounting to a change of personality, which
generally seems to have come on during sleep. The new personality is in
that case termed secondary. It generally disappears after a time, or
alternates with the original, or primary, personality.
Secondary sensations {SecundWrempfindungen, audition coloree, sound-
seeing, synesthesias, etc.).—With some persons every sensation of one type is
accompanied by a sensation of another type ; as for instance a special sound
may be accompanied by a special sensation of colour or light (chromatisms or
photisms). This phenomenon is analogous to that of number-forms,—a kind
of diagrammatic mental pictures which accompany the conception of a
progression of numbers. See Galton's Inquiries into Human Faculty.
Shell-hearing.—The induction of hallucinatory voices, etc., by listening
to a shell. Analogous to crystal-gazing.
Spectrum of consciousness.—A comparison of man's range of consciousness
or faculty to the solar spectrum, as seen by us after passing through a prism
or as examined in a spectroscope.
Spiritualism or Spiritism.—A religion, philosophy, or mode of thinking,
based on the belief that the spirits of the dead communicate with living men.
Since the words spiritualisme and spiritualiste have long been used in France
for a school of philosophy opposed to materialism, there is some advantage
in choosing the word Spiritism for the belief in spirit-intercourse.
Stigmatisation.—The production of blisters or other cutaneous changes
on the hands, feet, or elsewhere, by self-suggestion or meditation. These
marks were said to have been produced on S. Francis of Assisi, on Louise
Lateau, etc., by meditation on the sufferings of Christ. Similar marks are
producible by suggestion in some hypnotic subjects, and even vesication (the
formation of blisters) seems to have been thus induced.
Subliminal.—Of thoughts, feelings, etc., lying beneath the ordinary
threshold (limen) of consciousness, as opposed to supraliminal, lying above
174 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
the threshold. Excitations are termed subliminal when they are too weak
to rise into direct notice ; and I have extended the application of the term to
feeling, thought, or faculty, which is kept thus submerged, not by its own
weakness, but by the constitution of man's personality. The threshold
(Schwelle) must be regarded as a level above which waves may rise, —like a
slab washed by the sea,—rather than as an entrance into a chamber.
Suggestion.—The process of effectively impressing upon the subliminal
intelligence the wishes of the man's own supraliminal self or of some other
person. The mechanism of this process is obscure, nor is it known why
some persons are much more suggestible than others. Self-suggestion (some
times called auto-suggestion by a barbarism easily avoidable in English)
means a suggestion conveyed by the subject himself from one stratum of
his personality to another, without external intervention.
*Supernormal.—Of a faculty or phenomenon which goes beyond the level
of ordinary experience, in the direction of evolution, or as pertaining to a
transcendental world. The word supernatural is open to grave objections ;
it assumes that there is something outside nature, and it has become
associated with arbitrary interference with law. Now there is no reason to
suppose that the psychical phenomena with which we deal are less a part of
nature, or less subject to fixed and definite law, than any other phenomena.
Some of them appear to indicate a higher evolutionary level than the mass of
men have yet attained, and some of them appear to be governed by laws of
such a kind that they may hold good in a transcendental world as fully as in
the world of sense. In either case they are above the norm of man rather
than outside his nature.
Supraliminal.—See Subliminal.
Telekinesis.—Used of alleged supernormal movements of objects, not due
to any known force.
*Telepathy and *telesthesia. —It has become possible, I think, to discrimi
nate between these two words somewhat more sharply than when I first
suggested them in 1882. Telepathy may still be defined as " the communica
tion of impressions of any kind from one mind to another, independently of
the recognised channels of sense. " The distance between agent and percipient
which the derivation of the word, " feeling at a distance " implies, need, in
fact, only be such that no known operation of the senses can bridge it.
Telepathy may thus exist between two men in the same room as truly as
between one man in England and another in Australia, or between one man
still living on earth and another man long since departed. Telesthesia—
perception at a distance—may conveniently be interpreted in a similar way,
as implying any direct sensation or perception of objects or conditions
independently of the recognised channels of sense, and also under such
circumstances that no known mind external to the percipient's can be
suggested as the source of the knowledge thus gained.
*Telergy.—A name for a hypothetical force or mode of action, concerned
with the conveyance of telepathic impressions, and perhaps with other
supernormal operation.
Veridical.—See Hallucination.
General Meetings. 175
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 80th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, June 5th, at 8.30 p.m.; Professor
Barrett in the chair.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell read the paper on " Personally observed
Hypnotic Phenomena," printed below.
The 81st General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
July 10th, at 4 p.m. ; the President, Mr. W. Crookes, in the chair.
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell read a paper, entitled " What is
Hypnotism ? " also printed below.
The 82nd General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
October 30th, at 8.30 p.m. ; Professor Sidgwick in the chair.
Professor W. F. Barrett read a further paper on the Dowsing
or Divining Rod, which it is hoped will appear in a future number of
the Proceedings.
The 83rd General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
December 4th, at 4 p.m. ; the President, Mr. W. Crookes, in the
chair.
" Miss X." read a paper on " Some Recent Experiences, apparently
Supernormal," which it is hoped will appear in a future number of the
Proceedings.
N
176 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
I.
PERSONALLY OBSERVED HYPNOTIC PHENOMENA.
By De. J. Milne Bramwell.
During the last few years, I have occasionally been asked to give
an account of my hypnotic experiences to this Society, on the ground
that, as I was constantly employed in hypnotic work at home, and had
frequently visited hypnotic centres abroad, I must have something
interesting to relate. I have hitherto refrained from doing so, chiefly
because my researches have been almost entirely of a medical nature,
and have contained little of general scientific interest. I have observed,
however, certain facts which are not without importance in reference
to hypnotic theory. These, I think, tend to show that the hypnotised
subject has a higher mental life than he is usually credited with, and
possesses considerable selective power in reference to the commands of
the operator. These facts, together with an account of the remarkable
power of appreciating time possessed by one hypnotised subject, will
form the main features of this paper. I also propose giving a short
account of other phenomena, and will try to group them so as to
form a general picture of the hypnotic state, as it appears to me.
The sequel to this paper will deal with these phenomena in relation
ship to the various theoretical explanations of hypnotism.
Methods and Susceptibility.
As various theories have been based, both on the manner in which
hypnosis is induced, as well as on the mental condition of those
capable of being hypnotised, it is necessary that I should say a word
or two on these two points. I have never observed an instance in
which hypnosis has followed mechanical means alone ; on the other
hand, it has frequently appeared when these have been carefully
eliminated, and when the only method employed has been the creation
by verbal suggestion of a picture of the desired condition. I have
neither been able to confirm the observations of others in reference to
the value of chloroform and other narcotic drugs in inducing hypnosis,
nor to succeed, as they claim to have done, in changing natural into
hypnotic sleep.
The susceptibility to hypnosis varies widely, usually in proportion
to the subject's power of concentration. Where voluntary attention
is absent, as in idiots, hypnosis is impossible ; where, as in insanity,
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 177
hysteria, &c., the attention is actively engaged in other directions,
hypnosis is generally difficult.
The following figures, comprising two groups of 100 consecutive
cases, illustrate this. In group No. 1, many were in good health when
I attempted to hypnotise them, while of the remainder, few suffered
from diseases calculated to interfere with their powers of attention.
The results in this class were as follows :—
Slight hypnosis, 1 2. Deep hypnosis, 40. Somnambules, 48. Re
fractory, 0. Hypnotised at first attempt, 92. After repeated trials, 8 :
average number of trials in these eight cases, 4.
In group No. 2, nearly all suffered from grave and long-standing
nervous disease, and with them the susceptibility was considerably
decreased, thus :—
Slight hypnosis, 35. Deep hypnosis, 13. Somnambules, 29. Re
fractory, 23. In the 77 successful cases hypnosis was obtained at the
first attempt in 51 instances. After repeated trials, in 26 : average
number of trials in these 26 cases, 15.
Sex apparently exerted no influence on susceptibilty.
Hypnotic Phenomena.
Closure of the eyes is usually the first phenomenon observed in
hypnosis, and as soon as this occurs other alterations in the voluntary
muscles can usually be induced by suggestion. In reference to these
I have nothing special to report. I, like others, have seen that
voluntary muscular power can be increased or diminished to a
remarkable extent.
Involuntary Muscles and Special Senses.—The action of the in
voluntary muscles and the special senses can be influenced in hypnosis.
Of this I have seen many striking instances, but will confine myself
almost entirely to one case, that of a woman aged forty, in which all
the experiments were checked by independent observers.
Pulse.—In this subject, the rapidity of the pulse could be quickly
increased or diminished by simply suggesting that it should beat faster
or slower. These changes, as recorded by the sphygmograph, showed
corresponding alterations in tension.
Muscular Sense.—Differences in weight as small as eight grains
could be distinguished in the hypnotic state; this the patient was quite
unable to do in the normal condition.
Thermal Sensibility. —She was able to discriminate between very
slight changes in temperature, such as she was unable to appreciate
when awake.
Common Cutaneous Sensibility.—The common cutaneous sensibility
was nearly double, i.e., the patient could distinguish the points of a
n 2
178 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
compass, applied to different parts of the body, at about half the
normal distance. She possessed no increased power when awake.
Hearing.—The range of hearing could be doubled by suggestion.
Sight.—The variations in this patient's range of vision were
recorded for me by Mr. Bendelack Hewetson, Ophthalmic Surgeon
to the Leeds Infirmary ; and, as they appear to be of considerable
interest, I will give them in detail. He first saw her in 1889, long
before she had been hypnotised, and reported that she was hyper
metropic ; that this condition was over-corrected by ciliary spasm ;
that she could only read the third line of Snellen's test types, and
required a minus glass to enable her to read the bottom line. In
hypermetropia, as many of my readers are doubtless aware, the axis of
the eye is shorter than normal, and the rays of light, or a certain pro
portion of them, in passing through the lens, are focussed at a point
behind the retina. In this case, as the result of spasm of the muscles
of accommodation, the position, and possibly the curvature of the lens
was altered ; i.e., it was projected further forward and rendered more
convex. In consequence of this, the hypermetropia, which was only
slight, was not only neutralised, but over-corrected. Thus the patient
was rendered virtually myopic ; the axis of the eye had become longer
than normal, and the rays of light were focussed at a point in front of,
instead of behind, the retina. At this time treatment by glasses
failed to relieve the defect, as the patient, who suffered from other
nervous affections, was unable to wear them. She was first hypno
tised in March, 1892, when I observed that I could apparently alter
the range of vision by suggestion. In the following July she was again
examined by Mr. Hewetson, who found the physical condition and
range of vision identical with what it had been in 1889. Suggestions
were then made in his presence, with the view of increasing the range
of vision, whereupon the spasm disappeared, and the patient easily
read the bottom line of Snellen's test types without a glass. After
having shown that the spasm, with its accompanying defective vision,
could be restored, I suggested its total disappearance. In June, 1893,
Mr. Hewetson again examined the patient, and reported that the
range of vision was normal, and that there was no return of the
spasm.
Analgesia.—With this patient, as with many others, hypnotic
analgesia could be easily induced. On one occasion she had six teeth
painlessly extracted, and on another four. There was no pain at any
time after these operations, and the healing process was a remarkably
quick one. A powerful application of the Faradic brush was also
unattended by any disagreeable sensation.
Change of Temperature.—On two occasions only have I had an
opportunity of testing whether the suggested sensations of heat and
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 179
cold were accompanied by change in temperature. The subject of both
experiments was a young man, a remarkably good somnambule, in
whom all the usual phenomena of deepest hypnosis could be induced.
Dr. Waller, the well-known physiologist, recorded the temperature by
means of a delicate electrical apparatus, capable of registering fractions
of a degree of change, while I alternately made emphatic and prolonged
suggestions of heat and cold. The result was an entirely negative one.
Appreciation of Time by Somnambules.
To Professor Delboeuf's experiments in this direction my own owe
their origin. Delboeuf drew attention to the fact that, in most
instances in which it had been suggested to somnambules to do some
thing at the end of a certain number of days, this had been rendered
more simple by the terminal day falling upon some easily recognisable
date, such as the New Year, and, as the subject knew this, the
suggestion was equivalent to saying that he was to do something on
New Year's Day. To avoid mistakes of this kind and to render the
test conditions more stringent, Delboeuf made his suggestions in
minutes varying in number from 350 to 3,300. In thirteen experi
ments there were only two complete successes ; in the majority of the
remainder there was a partial success, with an error of a tenth to
a thirty-seventh of the interval. Despite these failures, Professor
Delboeuf considered that the successes, under the conditions in which he
obtained them, were amongst the most extraordinary things presented
by induced somnambulism.
I propose at present to conftne my account to the history of one
case and, as the results obtained were so extraordinary, I will put
before you as many details as possible, in order to present a fairly
complete picture of the subject of the experiments, and of the circum
stances under which they were carried out.
Miss , the patient in question, aged 19, was first hypnotised
by me on September 2nd, 1895. At this time she had suffered from
muscular tremor of both arms and legs for about twelve montha
The illness had appeared after over-exertion and mental strain, the
result of nursing a relative who died after a long illness. Previously,
the general health had been good and there had been no signs of
hysteria. Family history good. After about three weeks of hypnotic
treatment the tremor disappeared, and has not returned since. The
patient is intelligent and fairly well educated, but possesses no
extraordinary calculating powers either in the normal state or in
hypnosis. According to her mother, she has always been remarkably
truthful and well-conducted, rather grave in disposition and inclined
to take the duties of life seriously. She is a dressmaker, and is in
the employment of a personal friend, but lives at home. She is fond
180 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
of her business, and her main interest in life, apart from it, appears
to be a kind of amateur mission work, which she carries out with
considerable success amongst the children of a poor and rough
neighbourhood. Her parents are shopkeepers and are comfortably
off for their position in life.
Some time before the commencement of the experiments, she had
become a good somnambule, and I had satisfied myself of the
genuineness of this condition before thinking of making her the
subject of any experiment. She could be made analgesic or
anaesthetic by suggestion. The touching of the cornea or the tickling
of the back of the throat with a feather produced no reflex, and the
passing of a needle deeply into the flesh was unattended by pain.
She never spontaneously recalled in the waking state anything that
occurred in hypnosis. During this time she was also treated medically
by suggestion, but this was only for a functional disturbance, which
was of little importance in reference to her general physical state,
and of none in regard to her mental one. With the exception of a
short time towards the close of the experiments, when she was
suffering from the effects of a severe fall, she was in good health,
and on more than one occasion she rode over fifty miles in a day on
a heavy tricycle without undue fatigue.
The experiments were all of the same character. On each occasion
I suggested to her, during hypnosis, that at the expiration of a varying
number of minutes she should feel impelled to make a cross on a piece
of paper with a pencil and also, without looking at clock or watch,
write down what time she believed it to be, and then immediately
compare this with the actual time and, if possible, obtain corroborative
testimony from her friends.
Experiment No. 1. November 5th, 1895, 4 p.m.—Suggestion to
to be realised in five hours and twenty minutes, i.e., at the expiration
of that time the patient was to make a cross and put down the time
in the manner just described. Result.—Correct.
Remarks.—On this occasion I did not say anything to the patient
about the experiment, either before or after hypnosis. I told her
mother its nature, but not the time at which the suggestion should be
fulfilled. At 9.15 the same evening her mother noticed that the
patient was restless and asked her what was the matter. She replied,
" I feel I must do something, but cannot tell what." At 9.20 p.m.
she rapidly made a cross with a pencil and wrote 20 minutes past 9 on
a piece of paper, at the same time saying, " It's all silliness." There
was no clock in the room, but her mother went into the next room
where there was one, and found that the time was 9.20. When I
again saw the patient I explained the nature of the experiments I
proposed making to her, and instructed her always to carry a pencil
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 181
and paper with her during the day, and to put one by her bedside at
night. I did not describe them as anything extraordinary, but simply
told her that hypnotised subjects were often able to calculate time, and
that I wished to see whether she could do so. No pecuniary or other
reward was promised or given. I told her I should make these
experimental suggestions from time to time, but not on each occasion
when she visited me. I neither told her in the waking condition that
the suggestions had been made, nor informed her relatives when I
made them, or what they were. They knew that suggestions of this
nature were given frequently, but only became acquainted with them
on seeing the patient carry them out, or on hearing from her that she
had done so. Invariably, before making the suggestions, I wrote them
down in my case-book, and when the patient again visited me I copied
into it what she had written on the different pieces of paper. In many
instances I did not calculate when the suggestions fell due, and in
others the calculations I made at the time were proved to be erroneous,
and the results of the experiments were in these cases only determined
when the series was completed.
Experiment No. 2.—November 28th, 1895, 2 p.m. Suggestion in
320 minutes. Result.—Correct.
Remarks.—The suggestion was carried out at 7.20 p.m. when the
patient was in a friend's house. She had no watch with her. There
was a clock in the room, but it was wrong.
Experiment No. 3.—December 4th, 3.15 p.m. Suggestion in 24
hours and 100 minutes. Result.—Correct.
Remarks.—When in a friend's house the following afternoon she
carried out the suggestion at 4.55. She then asked the time. Her
friend looked at her watch and told her, whereupon she remarked,
" Your watch is three minutes fast." This was the case.
Experiment No. 4.—December 12th, 3.20 p.m. Suggestion in 24
hours, 1,440 minutes. Result.—3.20 p.m., Saturday, December 14th.
Correct.
Experiment No. 5.—Wednesday, December 18th, 3.45 p.m.
Suggestion in 24 hours, 2,880 minutes. Result.—3.45 p.m., Saturday,
December 21st. Correct.
Experiment No. 6.—Tuesday, December 24th, 2.55 p.m. Sugges
tion in 30 hours, 50 minutes. Result. —9.45 p.m., Wednesday,
December 25th. Correct.
Experiment No. 7.—Tuesday, December 24th, 3.10 p.m. Sugges
tion in 7,200 minutes. Result.—3.10 p.m., Sunday, December 29th.
Correct.
Remarks.—The patient was teaching a class in the Sunday School,
when she suddenly felt an impulse to make a cross and mark the time.
182 Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
It was only after doing so that she looked at the clock, which was
behind her.
Experiment No. 8.—Tuesday, December' 31st, 3.45 p.m. Sugges
tion in 4,335 minutes. Result.—4 p.m., Friday, January 3rd, 1896.
Correct.
Experiment No. 9.—December 31st, 1895, 4 p.m. Suggestion in
11,525 minutes. Result.—11.5 a.m., Wednesday, January 8th. Wrong.
Remarks.—The result ought to have been 4.5 p.m., January 8th.
I rehypnotised her on that day and asked her to recall the suggestion
I had made on December 31st. She said it was to be executed in
11,225 minutes. It is possible, but not at all likely, that I had made
a mistake, as I had read the suggestion to her with the figures before
my eyes. The supposed suggestion of 11,225 minutes had been carried
out correctly.
I now attempted to find out during hypnosis the patient's mental
condition in reference to these suggestions. In reply to my questions
she informed me :—1. That when the suggestions were made in
hypnosis she did not calculate when they fell due. 2. That she did
not calculate them at any time afterwards. 3. That she had no
recollection of them when awakened. 4. That no memory of them
ever arose in the waking state. 5. That shortly before their fulfil
ment she always experienced a motor impulse, that her fingers moved
as if to grasp a pencil and to perform the act of writing. 6. That
this impulse was immediately followed by the idea of making a cross,
and of the time. 7. That she never looked at clock or watch until
after she had written the figures.
Experiments.—Wednesday, January 8th, 1896.
No. 10.—4.5 p.m. Suggestion in 4,417 minutes.
No. 11.—4.5 p.m. Suggestion in 11,470 minutes.
No. 12.—4.30 p.m. Suggestion in 10,070 minutes.
Results.—No. 10.—5.42 p.m., Saturday, January 11th.
No. 11.—3.15 p.m., Thursday, January 16th.
No. 12.—4.20. p.m., Wednesday, January 15th.—All were correct.
Remarks.—As the patient had stated in hypnosis that she made
no calculations in reference to the suggestions, in order to vary the
experiments, I asked her as soon as I had made them, and before
awakening her, to calculate mentally when they would fall due, and to
tell me the result.
She replied as follows :—
"No. 10 in 3 days, 37 minutes, or 23 minutes to 5 next Saturday
afternoon.
"No. 11 in 187 hours, 50 minutes, or 7 days, 9 hours, 50 minutes.
Next Wednesday morning at 5 minutes to 12.
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 183
"No. 12 in 1,067 hours, 40 minutes, or 6 days, 23 hours, and 40
minutes. 4.20 p.m. next Wednesday."
In No. 10, the answer was 1 hour, 5 minutes too early, the interval
(which was 1 hour tdo short) having apparently been calculated from
4 o'clock, instead of 4.5 p.m.
In No. 1 1 the answer was 1 day, 3 hours, 20 minutes too early.
Here (1) the interval is calculated as 187 hours, 50 minutes, showing
that 11,470 has probably been mistaken for 11,270. (2) 187 hours,
50 minutes, is stated to be equal to 7 days, 9 hours, 50 minutes, instead
of 7 days, 19 hours, 50 minutes. The answer seems, however, to have
been calculated with the latter interval, but (3) a mistake of 1 day is
made.
In No. 12 the answer is correct, but does not correspond with the
calculations ; 10,070 minutes equals 167 hours, 50 minutes, not 1,067
hours, 40 minutes. Here (1) a cypher has been wrongly inserted, and
(2) 40 minutes miscalculated for 50. The former error is corrected,
but the latter repeated when 6 days, 23 hours, 40 minutes is given
instead of 6 days, 23 hours, 50 minutes.
When No. 12 was fulfilled the patient had been asleep in my
consulting-room for an hour. There was no clock in the room. I was
hypnotising another patient, Mrs. M. Exactly at 4.20, without
awaking or opening her eyes, the patient said she had to make a cross
and put the time down. When the suggestions were realised in my
presence I invariably noticed the motor impulse previously described
by the patient. From this date, I arranged that a certain number of
the experiments should be fulfilled when the patient visited me. On
these occasions she was sometimes awake, sometimes asleep. In
almost every instance I made her write the time she thought it was
in my case book, and frequently was able to get this witnessed and
signed by others who were present. On these occasions I compared
my watch beforehand with the Vere-street Post Office clock, in order
to insure greater accuracy.
From this time I usually made a number of suggestions to the
patient at each stance. Sometimes these started from the same hour,
sometimes from different hours. In the latter case the starting points
were usually imaginary, i.e., I said to the patient, "You are to suppose
it is such a time, and carry out the suggestions in so many minutes
from that imaginary starting point." The suggestions were all made
rapidly one after the other.
Experiments.—Wednesday, January 15th, 4.45 p.m.
No. 13.—From 4.45 p.m. Suggestion in 4,453 minutes.
No. 14.—From 2 p.m. Suggestion in 10,470 minutes.
No. 15. —From 3 p.m. Suggestion in 10,060 minutes.
184 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
Results.—No. 13.—6.58 p.m., Saturday, January 18th.
No. 14.—8.30 p.m., Wednesday, January 22nd.
No. 15.—2.40 p.m., Wednesday, January 22nd.—All correct.
At the time the suggestions were made the patient was again
asked in hypnosis to calculate mentally when they would fall due, and
replied rapidly :—
"No. 13 in 722 hours and 33 minutes, or 11.15 p.m. next
Wednesday.
"No. 14 in 197 hours and 30 minutes, or 4.5 p.m. next Wednesday.
"No. 15, 8 days, 5 hours and 30 minutes, or 4.25 p.m. next
Wednesday."
Remarks.—In No. 13 the answer was 4 days, 4 hours, 17 minutes
too late. 4,453 minutes equals 74 hours, 13 minutes, not 722 hours,
33 minutes. Perhaps 4,453 was mistaken for 43,353, equalling 722
hours, 33 minutes. The answer has been calculated from the interval
of No. 14.
In No. 14 the answer was 4 hours, 25 minutes too early. 10,470
minutes equals 174 hours, 30 minutes, not 197 hours, 30 minutes.
The answer also does not correspond with either interval, but is nearly
the same as the answer given in No. 15. There is no explanation for
either of these two independent errors.
In No. 15 the answer was 1 hour, 45 minutes too late. The
wrongly calculated interval, 8 days, 5 hours, 30 minutes, corresponds to
the wrongly calculated 197 hours, 30 minutes of No. 14 ; this interval
having apparently remained in the mind. The time of falling due
has been calculated with 4.45 as initial time, as in No. 13, instead
of 3 p.m.
When I made the patient calculate when the suggestions would
fall due, and found that her calculations were wrong, I naturally con
cluded that, as she had fixed the date at which the suggestions were
to be fulfilled in her own mind, in the hypnotic state, they would be
carried out at the erroneous times. My astonishment was, great when
I found they were executed correctly. I rehypnotised the patient and
said to her, " You have not carried out these suggestions at the time
you told me they would fall due. Why is this 1 " She replied, " What
I told you was all wrong." " How do you know the others are right ?"
" I can't tell you, I only feel that they are.'' I was not able to elicit
by questioning any memory of the processes by which the original
mistakes were corrected. The patient assured me that from the time
the suggestions were made she had never again thought of them, and
that at the time of their fulfilment she had suddenly had the impulse
to put down the figures. When doing so she had no recollection of
her original calculations.
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 185
Experiments.—Wednesday, January 22nd, 4.5 p.m.
No. 16.—Suggestion in 20,180 minutes.
No. 17.—Suggestion in 20,160 minutes.
No. 18.—Suggestion in 20,140.
Results.—No. 16.—February 5th, 4.25 p.m.
No. 17.—February 5th, 4.5 p.m.
No. 18.—February 5th, 3.45. p.m.—All correct.
Remarks.—On Wednesday, February 5th, I hypnotised the patient
at 3 p.m. At 3.45 she said the time was 3.45, and that she wished to
make a cross. I awoke her at 4 o'clock, and the same thing occurred
at 4.5 and at 4.25. On each occasion she marked the time in my
case-book, and this was witnessed by two other persons who were
present. The two last suggestions were carried out when awake, and
while she was in the midst of conversation with me and others in the
room.
Patient's Calculations.—"No. 16, 336 hours, 20 minutes, or 13
days, 20 minutes. Tuesday, February 4th, at 4.25. p.m.
"No. 17.—Tuesday, February 4th, at 4.5 p.m.
"No. 18.—Tuesday, February 4th, at 3.45 p.m."
Remarks.—The answers in each instance are one day too early, but
in No. 16, 20,180 minutes is correctly given as 336 hours, 20 minutes.
Experiments.—Wednesday, February 5th, 4 p.m.
No. 19.—Suggestion in 10,050 minutes.
No. 20.—Suggestion in 10,080 minutes.
No. 21.—Suggestion in 10,090 minutes.
No. 22.—Suggestion in 840 minutes.
No. 23.—Suggestion in 900 minutes.
Results.—No. 22.—Thursday, February 6th, 6 a.m.
No. 23.—Thursday, February 6th, 7 a.m.
No. 19.—Wednesday, February 12th, 3.30 p.m.
No. 20.—Wednesday, February 12th, 4 p.m.
No. 21.—Wednesday, February 12th, 4.10 p.m.—All correct.
After the suggestions were made the patient was asked during
hypnosis when they would fall due, and almost instantaneously replied
correctly as follows :—
"No. 19.—3.30 p.m., Wednesday, February 12th.
" No. 20.—4 p.m., same day.
" No. 21.—4.10 p.m., same day.
"No. 22.-6 a.m., Thursday, February 6th.
"No. 23.-7 a.m., same day."
Remarks.—When the patient's mother went to her bedroom on the
morning of the 6th, she found the patient asleep and two pieces of
paper on a table by the bedside. On each was a rough cross, and on
186 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
one the figure 6 and on the other the figure 7. Both very badly
written. She said she had not awakened during the night.
The other suggestions were carried out during hypnosis in my
room. The time being marked by the patient in my note-book and
witnessed by others.
The five suggestions were given rapidly, one after the other, and then
the patient was asked when they fell due. These complicated series
of suggestions were never read over to the patient more than twice
and in some instances were only read to her once, and that quickly.
I rehypnotised the patient and questioned her about the suggestions
which had been carried out during the night and presumably in natural
sleep. She told me she had no recollection in reference to them, and
on subsequent occasions, when suggestions were again carried out in
natural sleep, the patient could never recall anything regarding them.
Experiments.—Wednesday, February 12th.
No. 24.—3.30 p.m. Suggestion in 2,220 minutes.
No. 25.—3.30 p.m. Suggestion in 2,285 minutes.
No. 26.—3 p.m. Suggestion in 10,115 minutes.
No. 27.—3 p.m. Suggestion in 10,150 minutes.
No. 28.'—4 p.m. Suggestion in 20,190 minutes.
Result.—No. 24.—4.30 a.m., Friday, February 14th.
No. 25.—5.35 a.m., Friday, February 14th.
No. 26.-3.35 p.m., Wednesday, February 19th.
No. 27.—4.10 p.m., Wednesday, February 19th.
No. 28.—4.30 p.m., Wednesday, February 26th.—All correct.
At the time the suggestions were made, the patient was asked to
calculate mentally when they all fell due. She replied as follows :—
" No. 24.—18 hours and 40 minutes, or 10.10 to-morrow morning.
"No. 25.—11.15 to-morrow morning.
" No. 26.—25 minutes to 4 p.m. next Wednesday." Answered
immediately.
" No. 27.—5.30 p.m. next Wednesday." Answered immediately.
" No. 28.—A fortnight and half-an-hour." Answered immediately.
Remarks.—In No. 24 the answer was 18 hours, 20 minutes too
early. It would have been correct if the interval suggested had
been 1,120, instead of 2,220 minutes.
In No. 25 the answer was 18 hours, 20 minutes too early, but
would have been correct had the suggested interval been 1,185,
instead of 2,285 minutes.
In No. 26 the answer was correct.
In No. 27 the answer was 1 hour, 20 minutes too late. The
interval here seems to have been taken as 7 days, 150 minutes, instead
of 10,150 minutes.
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 187
In No. 28 the answer is correct as far as it goes, but the exact
time of fulfilment is not given.
At the time I made the suggestions, I also calculated when they
would fall due, as follows :—
No. 24.—5 a.m. on the 14th. Wrong. Half-an-hour too late.
No. 25.—6.5 a.m. Wrong. Half an-hour too late.
No. 26.-3.35 p.m. on the 19th. Right.
No. 27.—4.10 p.m. on the 19th. Right.
No. 28.—4.25 p.m. on the 26th. Wrong. 5 minutes too soon.
Nos. 24 and 25 were fulfilled during sleep on the 14th. The
patient on awaking in the morning found papers by her bedside, with
4.30 and 5.35 written on them. On the 19th, she was hypnotised in
my room at 3 p.m., and carried out Nos. 26 and 27 while asleep.
On both occasions she wrote the time in my note-book, and this was
witnessed. I asked her during hypnosis whether she remembered the
last suggestion (No. 28), which I had made to her the previous week.
She said she did, and repeated the number of minutes correctly, but
stated she had never thought of it since, and did not know when
it fell due, or the number of minutes that had elapsed. She had
apparently forgotten that she had calculated when it fell due, at the
time the suggestion was made. No. 28 was carried out correctly
on February 26th, the patient being asleep.
Experiments.—Wednesday, February 19th.
No. 29.—3.30 p.m. Suggestion in 720 minutes.
No. 30.—3.30 p.m. Suggestion in 780 minutes.
No. 31.—3.30 p.m. Suggestion in 2,160 minutes.
No. 32.—3 p.m. Suggestion in 10,135 minutes.
No. 33.—3 p.m. Suggestion in 20,210 minutes.
Besults.—No. 29.—Thursday, February 20th, 3.30 a.m.
No. 30.—Thursday, February 20th, 4.30 a.m.
No. 31.—Friday, February 21st, 3.30 a.m.
No. 32.—Wednesday, February 26th, 3.55 p.m.
No. 33.—Wednesday, March 4th, 3.50 p.m.—All correct, with the
exception that No. 33, stated to be due at 3.50, was executed at 3.48,
At the time the suggestions were made the patient was asked when
they fell due. She replied quickly, without apparently making any
calculation. Her answers were correct, with the exception of No. 32,
which she said was due at 2.5 p.m. on Wednesday, February 26th.
This was 1 hour, 50 minutes too early and represented an interval of
7 days, less 55 minutes, instead of 7 days, plus 55 minutes.
On awaking at 7 o'clock on the morning of the 20th, the patient
found a piece of paper with 3.30 marked on it and another with 4.30.
On the morning of the 21st, she found a paper with 3.30 marked on
188 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
it. She had no recollection of waking during the night ; and, as usual,
questioning in hypnosis failed to revive any memory of what had taken
place.
Experiments, Wednesday, February 26th, 3.30 p.m.
No, 34.—Suggestion in 2,140 minutes.
No. 35.—Suggestion in 3,590 minutes.
No. 36.—Suggestion in 5,030 minutes.
No. 37.—Suggestion in 10,125 minutes.
No. 38.—Suggestion in 10,100 minutes.
No. 39.—Suggestion in 20,180 minutes.
Results.—No. 34.—Friday, February 28th, 3.10 a.m.
No. 35.—Saturday, February 29th, 3.20 a.m.
tfo. 36.—Sunday, March 1st, 3.20 a.m.
No. 37.—Not recorded. [Due March 4th, at 4.15 p.m.]
No. 38.—Wednesday, March 4th, 3.48 p.m. Patient stated the
time to be 3.50.
No. 39.—March 11th, 3.51J p.m. Patient stated the time to
be 3.50.
All correct, with the exception of 2 minutes in one instance, and
1J minutes in another between the time the suggestion was due and
the moment at which it was carried out.
Remarks.—These suggestions were only read to the patient once,
when she was asked to repeat them, which she did correctly, with the
exception of No. 37. She was told not to make any calculations. I
did not calculate when the suggestions would fall due at the time I
made them. Nos. 34, 35, and 36 were executed during sleep, and the
papers, as usual, were found by the patient at her bedside in the
morning. No. 38 was carried out at 3.48 p.m., on March 4th, instead
of at 3.50, when it really fell due. The patient, however, stated the
time correctly at which she ought to have carried it out, viz., 3.50. It
is to be noted that 3.50, March 4th, is the date at which another
suggestion made a fortnight before fell due, and this has already
been recorded in its proper place. The patient stated at 3.48 that she
had to make two crosses and to put down 3.50 twice. No. 37, due at
4.15 p.m., Wednesday, March 4th, I have no record of. I am not quite
certain whether this is my fault or the patient's. I was hypno
tising another patient when the suggestions were fulfilled and may
have omitted to enter this one. On the other hand, the patient may
have failed to carry it out. Three suggestions fell due very quickly,
and one of them, as we have seen, belonged to another series. When
suggestions were made to fall due in a fortnight and I saw the patient
in the week between, I invariably questioned her in hypnosis in
reference to the unfulfilled suggestions. She always assured me that
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 189
she had never thought of them, did not know how much of the time
had elapsed, nor when they fell due. No. 39 was carried out at 3.51J,
but the patient gave 3.50 as the time at which it ought to be executed.
Experiments.—Wednesday, March 4th, 3.45 p.m.
No. 40.—Suggestion in 10,080 minutes.
No. 41.—Suggestion in 10,055 minutes.
No. 42. —Suggestion in 10,040 minutes.
No. 43.—Suggestion in 750 minutes.
No. 44.—Suggestion in 2,160 minutes.
No. 45.—Suggestion in 2,195 minutes.
Results.—No. 43.—4.15 a.m., Thursday, March 5th.
No. 44.—3.45 a.m., Friday, March 6th.
No. 45.—4.20 a.m., Friday, March 6th.
No. 42.—3.5 p.m., Wednesday, March 11th.
No. 41.—3.22 p.m., Wednesday, March 11th.
No. 40.—3.44 p.m., Wednesday, March 11th.
All correct, with the exception of slight variations between the
correctly estimated time the suggestion fell due, and its execution ;
these amounted to 1 minute in No. 40 and 2 minutes in No. 41.
Remarks.—When these suggestions were given I did not calculate
them, nor ask the patient to do so. Mr. Barkworth, a well-known
member of this Society, and Dr. Barclay, a medical friend, were
present during the greater part of the seance on Wednesday, March
11th, and witnessed and signed the suggestions as they fell due.
When the patient said it was 3.20 the exact time was 3.22. When
she said it was 3.45 the exact time was 3.44. When she said it
was 3.50 [No. 39 of former series, made February 26th] the time
was 3.51J.
At this seance, March 11th, fresh suggestions were made under the
following conditions. Mr. Barkworth and Dr. Barclay were both put
en rapport with the patient, and it was agreed that they should each
make two time suggestions to her, arranged so as to fall due at the next
seance, when they both promised to be present. The suggestions were
made when I was out of the room, and I was not told what they were
until after their fulfilment. While I was still in the room, both
gentlemen were busy for some considerable time with pencil and paper
before they were able to work out their calculations correctly, and I
observed a great deal of whispered consultation and frequent correc
tion of their results. At least, I imagined that this was what was
taking place, for I did not hear what they said.
On Thursday, March 26th, I hypnotised the patient at 12.30 p.m.
Mr. Barkworth was present and Dr. Barclay came later. At 22
minutes to 1 the patient said she had to make a cross at 20 minutes
190 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
to 1. Error of 2 minutes. Mr. Barkworth corroborated the time. At
1 minute to 1 she said she had to mark 1 o'clock. Error of 1 minute
as checked by Mr. Barkworth and myself. At 8 minutes past 1 she
said she had to mark the time : this was correct. At 14 minutes
past 1 she again said she had to mark the time : this also was correct.
Dr. Barclay was now present.
Mr. Barkworth and Dr. Barclay had both mislaid their notes and
were unable with certainty to recall the suggestions. The patient was
asked during hypnosis if she remembered them and replied :—" They
were made at 4 p.m. last Wednesday week, and were to be fulfilled in
21,400, 21,420, 21,428, and 21,434 minutes.1' She said Mr. Barkworth
had made two of these suggestions and Dr. Barclay the others, and
that she had made no calculation at the time and had not thought of
them afterwards. These questions were put to the patient after the
suggestions had been fulfilled. On other occasions, when a week or
two had elapsed after the suggestions had been executed, I found that
she was unable to recall them correctly in hypnosis. On April 22nd,
Dr. Barclay sent me the lost memo, of his two suggestions, viz., 21,428
and 21,434 minutes, from 4 p.m. on the day already mentioned. On
April 27th, Mr. Barkworth wrote to tell me that he also had found
his lost memo, and that the suggestions were 21,400, 21,420, 21,428,
and 21,434 minutes ; the first two having been made by himself and
the two latter by Dr. Barclay. This agrees with the patient's account.
The results of the suggestions were correct, with the exception of the
minute differences in time already mentioned. These experiments just
recorded are Nos. 46, 47, 48, and 49.
April 8th, 1896.— A fresh series of suggestions was made on this
day, some to fall due during the night, some next day in my presence.
The patient lost her papers recording those made at home and I was
too busy to enter at the time those that were fulfilled in my presence,
and therefore cannot be sure of the results. These are the only
experiments in the whole series which are not recorded and are only
omitted for the above reasons.
Experiments.—Thursday, May 7th, 3 p.m.
No. 50.—Suggestion in 8,650 minutes.
No. 51.—Suggestion in 8,680 minutes.
No. 52.—Suggestion in 8,700 minutes.
I still further complicated these by suggesting as follows :—
" No. 50 is to be fulfilled in the waking state. Five minutes
before 51 comes due you are to fall asleep. No. 51 is to be fulfilled
while you are asleep, and five minutes afterwards you are to awake
and remain so until after the fulfilment of No. 52. Eight minutes
after 52 falls due you are again to fall asleep."
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 191
Result.—These suggestions were carried out correctly, with the
exception that she fell asleep at 3.31 instead of 3.35.
Remarks.—On May 13th, the patient came into my consulting
room at 3.5 p.m., and almost immediately fainted. She would have
fallen, had I not caught her in my arms and laid her down. She had
recently met with a severe accident, and was in acute suffering.
Immediately on regaining consciousness, she said she had to make a
cross at 3.10, and did so in my case book. Time correct. She fell
asleep at 3.31, and at 3.40 she said she had to make a cross, and mark
20 minutes to 4. She awoke spontaneously at 3.45. Exactly at 4
o'clock she said she had to make a cross, and mark 4 o'clock. Exactly
at 4.8 she fell asleep. Others were present in the room when all
these suggestions were fulfilled, with the exception of the first.
Experiments.—Wednesday, May 13th, 4.30 p.m.
On this occasion I said to the patient, " You are to carry out all
the suggestions made last Thursday, but to-day you are to start from
2.55 instead of from 3 p.m., and to each of them you are to add 1,440
minutes." As I was much pressed for time, these suggestions were
made very hurriedly, and without explanation, and I was not at all
certain whether the patient understood them.
Results.—Correct, with the exception of slight differences between
the correctly estimated time and the moment at which the suggestion
was fulfilled.
Remarks.—On Wednesday, May 20th, the patient entered my
room at 3 p.m. At 3.5, in the waking state, she said she had to make
a cross and mark the time. She fell asleep at 3.30 and at 3.35 she
said she had to make a cross and write down 25 minutes to 4. She
continued asleep until 3.40, when she awoke spontaneously. According
to the suggestions made last week, she was to remain awake until the
fulfilment of the next suggestion, but, as she was still suffering from
the effects of her accident, I hypnotised her and made curative
suggestions, and told her she would awake one minute before the
next suggestion fell due. She awoke at 3.49, and at 3.50 said she
had to make a cross and mark the time, which she stated to be 3.55.
I hypnotised her again immediately. At 4.3, while still asleep, she
said it was 3 minutes past 4 and that I had suggested she should
fall asleep at that hour. The suggestions were correctly fulfilled,
with the exception that the suggestion due at 3.55 was carried
out at 3.50, although she stated it to be due at 3.55. It is worth
noting that on this occasion the patient fell asleep at 3.30, the
exact time suggested, on the last occasion she fell asleep at 3.31
instead of 3.35 as suggested. This is interesting, as the latter
suggestion, carried out correctly, was the former one complicated
o
192 Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
by 5 minutes having been deducted from the starting point and
1,440 minutes added to the interval.
These experiments, Nos. 53, 54, and 55, complete the series, but
the subject is still available for further ones and I shall be glad to
receive any suggestions in reference to them.
Summary.
Fifty-five experiments are recorded ; of these one apparently was
not carried out at all, while in another (No. 9) the patient had mis
taken the original suggestion and fulfilled it correctly in accordance
with what she thought it had been. The remainder were completely
successful, with the exception that in eight instances (Nos. 33, 38, 39,
40, 41, 46, 47, 55) there were minute differences, never exceeding five
minutes, between the patient's correct estimation of when the sugges
tion fell due and the moment at which she carried it out. The
proportions which these errors bear to the respective intervals vary
between 1 to 2,028 and 1 to 21,420.
As regards a certain proportion of the experiments, the correctness
of the results depends upon the evidence of the patient and her friends.
The remainder, however, were carried out before me and other wit
nesses. In reference to these the following particulars are worthy
of note. (1.) A complicated series of figures, which she would have
been unable to remember when awake, was read over to the patient
while asleep. (2.) These generally started from imaginary hours, and
when she calculated in hypnosis when they fell due she was frequently
wrong. Thus, out of 24 calculations, the first 9 were wrong, and, of
the remaining 15, 11 were right and 4 wrong. It is worthy of note
that, as the experiments advanced, not only the frequency, but also the
extent of these errors decreased, and the answers were given much
more rapidly. The errors in calculation had apparently no effect
on the ultimate results, these, with few exceptions, being correct.
(3.) She sometimes remained asleep for an hour or more after the
suggestions were made. (4.) She had no recollection of the sug
gestions in the waking state. (5.) When the suggestions were fulfilled
in my presence and in that of other witnesses she had sometimes
been several hours, either asleep or awake, under such conditions that it
was impossible for her to consult the time. (6.) It was impossible fot
her to receive direct or indirect suggestions from me, as I rarely knew
the exact time at which the suggestion was due, and was generally
busily occupied in hypnotising some other patient. I may add that I
have a bad memory for figures, and even when I had previously
correctly estimated the time of fulfilment, this was never in my mind
when the patient carried out the suggestion. (7.) The results of the
experiments were only completely estimated after the series was com
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 193
pleted, when a friend, Mr. Bartrum, B.Sc., kindly checked them for
me. He discovered that some of my calculations made at the time
had been erroneous. I am also indebted to him for a critical examina
tion of the calculations the patient was asked to make when the
suggestions were given.
Memory.
Memory in relationship to hypnotic states varies widely, and is
influenced by the depth of the hypnosis, the personality of the subject,
and the suggestions of the operator.
Memory in hypnosis may be :—
(1) Unchanged.
In this group the subjects when hypnotised can recall the eyents of
waking life, and on awakening can remember all that has passed.
In some instances, however, where the memory is apparently
unchanged, closer examination shows that it has either been increased
or diminished. Of this the two following cases are examples.
(a) Miss A. I had frequently hypnotised this patient and could
influence by suggestion, not only the voluntary muscles, but also the
special senses. On awakening she could always recall what had passed,
despite suggestions to the contrary. At a later date I found I could
make her analgesic by suggestion. Touching the cornea, passing
needles deeply into the flesh, and probing the nose and vocal chords
were unaccompanied by pain or disagreeable sensation. On awaking,
despite suggested amnesia, the patient could recall all the tactile
sensations associated with these operations, but was unable, even in
response to suggestion, to revive any memory of pain.
(b) Mrs. B. In this patient certain changes in the voluntary
muscles and special senses could also be induced, all of which she
remembered on awaking. She could not, however, be made analgesic
by suggestion. Though her memory was apparently unchanged,
experiment revealed the existence of a sub-conscious memory, superior
to her normal one. I suggested to her during hypnosis that she should
fall asleep the first time a certain friend called and shook hands with
her. On awaking she remembered the suggestion, A week or two
passed without the friend calling, when one day he met her at my
house and shook hands with her. She did not fall asleep. We had
both forgotten the exact terms of the suggestion and believed it had
been a failure. Some time afterwards the friend called at the patient's
own house and she fell asleep the moment he shook hands with her.
She was not thinking of the suggestion at the time.
(2) The subject may remember during hypnosis the events of
waking life, with a clearness corresponding to his powers of memory
in the normal state, and on awakening have a more or less indistinct
recollection of what has passed. The subject will frequently state
o 2
194 Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
that he can recall all that has been said or done, but on questioning
him it will generally be found that he remembers very little and that
this fades rapidly.
(3) Here, in response to suggestion, the subject may recall the
events of waking life to a greater extent than he could do in the
normal condition, as well as what has taken place during previous
hypnoses ; and, on awaking, may have lost all recollection of what has
occurred. The lost memory can be restored to a greater or lesser
extent by suggestion. The improvement in memory extends to remote
as well as recent incidents, and I have noticed numerous examples of
both. One patient, whose natural memory was unusually bad, was able
to recall on awaking some verses with which she was previously
unacquainted, and which were only read over to her twice during
hypnosis. Another, who could play a few dance tunes upon the
piano, but who could only do so with the music before her when
awake, was able, when hypnotised and blindfolded, to play the same
tunes much more brilliantly. I have found that subjects who could
not remember events which happened at an earlier age than six or
seven were able, when hypnotised, to recall those which had occurred
at the age of two and a-half years. In many of these instances I
have obtained confirmatory evidence, at all events as regards the
occurrence of the facts themselves, from the testimony of older relatives.
The recollection during the hypnotic state of what has occurred
in waking life, and previous hypnotic conditions, rarely appears
spontaneously in the first instance. In some cases frequent sugges
tions are necessary in order to obtain this revival of memory, but
once induced, it will often recur spontaneously in subsequent
hypnoses, or at all events, it can then be easily produced by
suggestion. When a subject has forgotten on awaking the events
of the hypnotic state, I have never observed a spontaneous revival of
this lost memory in the normal condition.
(4) The subject may be unable, owing to suggestion, to recall during
hypnosis the events of waking life, or those of previous hypnoses, and
on awaking may have lost all recollection of what has taken place.
This lost memory will not reappear spontaneously, but can be revived
by suggestion. For example, one of my patients, a nervous girl, was
much frightened by seeing a friend in a fit, and was unable to dismiss
the scene from her mind. This was blotted out by suggestion, and
she has not thought of it since, either in the normal state or in
hypnosis.
(5) The subject may be unable, even in response to suggestion, to
remember certain events and sensations of previous hypnoses. Of
this we have already had an example in the patient who could not
recall painful sensations after suggested analgesia. This case may
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 195
be taken as a typical one, for amongst the numerous operations
performed during hypnosis with which I have had to do, I have in no
instance been able to revive any memory of pain. Certain events,
particularly those occurring in the lethargic condition, cannot be
recalled by suggestion. ■ For example, some subjects are unable to
remember various sounds from the outside world, or to recall things
said and done by the spectators, but not referring to them. Others
can remember everything that has passed in a previous lethargic
condition, even when it has been suggested that they should forget it.
For instance, I hypnotised C., a good somnambule, and suggested that
he should hear nothing but my voice, and that only when I addressed
him directly. I then held a long conversation with a medical friend,
on a topic unconnected with the patient or with hypnotism. On
awaking, 0. was unable to recall anything that had been said. On
being rehypnotised, however, in response to suggestion, he gave a better
precis of the conversation than either my friend or I could have done.
(6) The subject may recall during hypnosis the events of previous
hypnoses and those of waking life, the latter to a greater extent than
he could do in the normal condition ; and by suggestion this memory
may be retained on awaking.
Here amnesia has been prevented by suggestion, and there is now
no break in the memory of the hypnotised subject. The only alteration
is one of improvement ; the subject now remembers in the waking state
past events which he was unable voluntarily to recall, but the memory
of which has been revived in hypnosis. He also recalls the recent
impressions he has received during hypnosis,—impressions which he
would not have been able to revive so vividly had they been made in
the waking state. He remembers, for instances, the piece of poetry
which has been read to him twice during hypnosis, and which he would
have required to have heard read many times in the normal state in
order to retain an equally clear recollection of it.
Memory in reference to certain Post-Hypnotic Conditions.
I formerly believed that all post-hypnotic acts, resulting from
suggestion in hypnosis, were forgotten immediately after fulfilment. I
have lately observed, however, that when the suggestions are carried
out some time after awaking, this is by no means always the case. If I
suggest to a subject that his arm will become rigid on awaking, this
post-hypnotic act is immediately forgotten after fulfilment. On the
other hand, if I successfully suggest to the same patient, who perhaps
has been suffering from insomnia, that he will sleep eight hours the
following night, he will remember that he has done so.
An attempt was made by some members of the Hypnotic Committee
of this Society to recall by means of suggestion what had occurred
196 Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
during the administration of nitrous oxide gas. This was a failure,
and I have also been unsuccessful in my endeavours to revive in a
similar way the recollection of what has taken place during normal
sleep. With one subject, whose memory during hypnosis of the events
of waking life was exceptionally good, I carried out the following
experiment :—The patient was in the habit of falling asleep every
Sunday afternoon in his arm-chair, and it was arranged, on these
occasions, that he should be read aloud to, and that the same sentences
should be repeated again and again. I afterwards hypnotised him, and
tried to make him recall what he had heard, but the experiment,
though frequently repeated, was invariably unsuccessful.
With another patient I tried in the same manner to revive the
memory of what had happened in a series of attacks of a hysterical
nature, in which an apparent change of personality had occurred.
The attempt was a failure, despite the fact that the patient was a
good somnambule.
Waking Somnambulism.
This term is applied by Beaunis to a condition in which the patient
will accept suggestions similar to hypnotic ones, without having on
that occasion been subjected to any hypnotic process, or having passed
through any state resembling sleep or trance. He considers the
condition a hypnotic one for two reasons : (1) The patient will receive
other suggestions of a hypnotic nature; (2) These suggestions are
forgotten immediately after fulfilment. I have observed that all
subjects, in whom hypnosis has previously been induced, will sub
sequently exhibit the same range of phenomena in response to suggestion
in the apparently waking state. On the other hand, I have noticed
some slight points of difference between the two conditions. In
waking somnambulism, while sometimes the suggestions were forgotten
almost immediately, at others they were remembered for a longer
period, and in some cases were recalled after the lapse of weeks. The
subject of one of these experiments was questioned in hypnosis in
reference to her memory of suggestions carried out in the state of
waking somnambulism. She replied : "Sometimes I forget them quickly,
sometimes remember them for an hour or two, never longer." When
I reminded her that she had recalled one at the end of a month, she
replied, " Oh, yes ! You made the suggestion just before I left your
room and I talked it over with my mother on the way home." Here
the recollection of the event was complicated by the patient's verbal
description of it, and possibly by her mother's comments.
With another patient, I noticed a difference between the mental
attitude in reference to hallucinations suggested in hypnosis and those
created in waking somnambulism. This subject, a good somnambule, on
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 197
several occasions, when hypnotised, saw by suggestion a hallucinatory
cat. She was always delighted with the imaginary animal and evinced
great pleasure in playing with it. At a later date, in the apparently
waking state, I successfully suggested a similar hallucination. The
patient did not like it at all. She said, " I see that cat, but I know
it is not a real one, I know it is only an imaginary one which you
have made me see. I don't like this. I don't mind seeing the cat now,
because I know you have done it as an experiment and will blot it out
again. But if I commence to see cats when I am by myself, I shall be
horribly frightened."
So-called Hypnotic Automatism.
When I first visited Nancy in 1891, Dr. Liébeault showed me one
of his subjects, called Camille, who had been frequently hypnotised,
and whom he regarded as a typical specimen of deep somnambulism
illustrating hypnotic automatism in its highest degree. He assured
me that the suggestions he made to her were carried out with the
fatality of a falling stone. He hypnotised her, and suggested that
on awaking she should find, on opening the outer door, that there was
a violent snow storm ; that she should at once return, complain of this,
and proceed to the stove to warm herself. While so doing one of her
hands would touch the stove and be burnt. It was a warm summer's
day, and of course the stove had not been lighted. The patient
refused to accept the suggestion. Dr. Liébeault insisted for some time
and then gave up the attempt, saying that she sometimes refused
suggestions. He then asked her, " Will you do this another time if you
will not do it to-day ? " She replied, "Yes, to-morrow." On the follow
ing day the suggestion was repeated and carried out in all its details.
Miss C., aged 19, an uneducated girl, had been frequently hyp
notised by me and was a good somnambule. She suffered greatly from
her teeth, of which she had only sixteen left, all decayed. These were
extracted at Leeds in the presence of 60 medical men and dental
surgeons. Anaesthesia was produced by written suggestion, while I
remained in another room. The operation was perfectly successful and
unattended by the slightest pain either then or afterwards. At a later
date I examined her mouth and found that a fragment of one of the
stumps remained. I told her to come to my house to have it
removed. She mentioned this to one of her neighbours, an old woman,
who advised her to have no more teeth extracted, as it would cause
her mouth to fall in. The following day she presented herself and was
at once hypnotised, but refused to open her mouth, or to permit me to
extract the tooth. Emphatic suggestion continued for half-an-hour
produced no result. This was the first occasion on which she had
refused a suggestion. I then awoke her and asked her why she refused
198 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
to have the tooth extracted. She told me what her neighbour had
said, and expressed her determination to have nothing more done. I
explained the absurdity of this, and pointed out that, as she had only
the fragment of one tooth remaining, its removal could not affect the
appearance of her face. As she was still obstinate, I said, " Unless
this fragment is removed you cannot have your artificial teeth fitted."
This argument was sufficient. She gave her consent in the waking
condition, was at once hypnotised and operated on without pain.
Miss D., aged 20, was a good somnambule who had been the
subject of two painless operations. At a much later date I wished
to satisfy myself of the depth of the hypnotic an«sthesia, as another
and more serious operation was contemplated. I obtained her consent
to test the condition, hypnotised her and pricked the pulp of the
thumb deeply with a needle, and also pinched her arm severely. She
showed no sign of pain, and remembered nothing afterwards of what
had occurred. A few days afterwards I wished to repeat the process.
She again permitted me to prick the thumb, but when I attempted
to pinch her arm she drew it away and refused to let me touch it.
Her mother, who was present, gave the following explanation. After
the first experiment her daughter noticed that her arm was blackened
in several places and asked the cause. She told the girl what I had
done, whereupon she said, "I don't object to being pricked with a
needle, but I won't allow Dr. Bramwell to pinch my arm again,
because the neighbours might notice the marks." On both occasions
her arm was covered, and I did not know it had been marked. I
awoke the patient. She had no recollection of what she had said and
done. I told her she had refused to let me pinch her arm, and asked
the reason. She laughed and gave me the same explanation as
her mother had done. One day when I had hypnotised this patient,
her mother said to me, " Ask her what she did on a certain occasion."
I questioned her, but could obtain no response. I afterwards learnt
what she had done. It was something which the mother regarded as
a joke, but which was slightly indelicate. Many persons, even fairly
refined ones, would have told this without blushing, but one of the
patient's characteristics was an extreme prudishness.
Miss E. had been frequently hypnotised, and was a good somnam
bule in whom anaesthesia could be easily induced. She was maid to
one of my patients, a chronic invalid, whose house was managed by a
sister of uncertain temper. On one occasion, when I had hypnotised
E., her mistress requested that I would ask her what had been said to
her by this sister. A quarrel had taken place, of a somewhat amusing
nature, and my patient wished to hear E.'s account of it in hypnosis ;
but, despite energetic suggestions, she absolutely refused to say a word
on the subject.
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 199
Miss F., aged 19, in good health, intelligent and well-educated.
This subject was a very good somnambule, in whom anaesthesia and
other phenomena of deepest hypnosis could be easily induced. She
had a bad memory for words, and was also extremely shy in reading,
singing, or playing before others. I suggested to her that she should
recite to me on awaking some verses with which she was unacquainted,
and which I had read twice to her when asleep. Shortly after
awaking, she repeated them with very few mistakes and without
apparent embarrassment. Her mother assured me that under ordinary
conditions this feat of memory would have been entirely beyond her
power, and that nothing would have induced her to read or recite
before me. On another occasion, her mother asked me to suggest to
her during hypnosis that on awaking she should go to the side
board in my dining room, pour out a glass of water, and drink
it. This suggestion was not carried out, and was the first which
had not been fulfilled. I had taught her mother to hypnotise her
and on returning home she did so, and questioned her about the
suggestion. She recalled it at once and gave the following reason
for not carrying it out, namely, that she did not know me well
enough to help herself to a glass of water in my house without
being asked.
Mr. G., aged 25, a shopkeeper. He had been frequently hypnotised
for medical and surgical purposes and was a good somnambule. On
one occasion I showed him at the York Medical Society. At the close
of my lecture I was asked to give an example of changed personality
by making this patient believe he was a dissenting minister preaching
a sermon. He refused to do this, and I was then asked to make him
believe he was a hawker selling fish. This was also rejected, but he
accepted the suggestion that he was Barnum and that the medical men
were wild beasts and proceeded to describe them, in his character of
showman, in a highly amusing manner. I afterwards tried to make
him accept the two first suggestions, but he invariably refused. On
one occasion, however, he accepted the suggestion that he should poison
a personal friend. The subject was in the alert stage of hypnosis with
his eyes open. I took a piece of sugar from the basin, and assured
him that it was a piece of arsenic sufficient to kill a dozen persons. I
then put it in a cup of tea and told him to give it to his friend to
drink. He at once did so. 1 asked him why he had poisoned his
friend and he replied in an unnaturally gruff voice, " Oh, he has lived
long enough." Another young man who was present, also a good
somnambule, would carry out suggestions like those rejected by G.,
but refused to execute the fictitious murder. The explanation of the
reason why some of these suggestions were accepted and others refused
I hope to give in my next paper.
200 Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
The patient who was the subject of the time experiments also
refused certain suggestions. These I will now relate, as well as her
own description of her mental and physical condition during
hypnosis. On one occasion, during hypnosis, I asked her to put her
fingers to her nose at Mr. Barkworth. She laughed, and, despite
repeated suggestions, absolutely refused to do so. At a later date,
in hypnosis, I asked her for an explanation. She told me she did
not want to and would give no other reason. On another occasion,
during hypnosis, I suggested that she should steal Mr. Barkworth's
watch. The watch was placed upon the table and Mr. Barkworth
hid behind a screen. I told the patient that Mr. Barkworth had
gone and had left his watch, that he was very absent-minded, would
never remember where he had left it, would never miss it, &c. ;
suggested that she should take it, no one would ever know, &c. I
awoke the patient. She took no notice of the watch. I asked her,
"Where is Mr. Barkworth?" "Gone away." "He has left his
watch, would you not like to take it ? " The patient laughed and
said, " No, of course not." I rehypnotised her and asked, " What
did I suggest to you a little while ago when you were asleep?"
"That I should steal Mr. Barkworth's watch, that he was absent-
minded, would never miss it, &c." "Then why did you not do so?"
" Because I did not want to." "Was it because you were afraid of
being found out?" " No, not at all, but because I knew it would be
wrong."
On another occasion I again questioned her in hypnosis in reference
to this suggested theft. I said, " Did you recognise it was an experi
ment?" " Yes, perfectly." " How did you know it was ? " "I can't tell
you, I only felt sure it was." On being pressed further, she said, "Well,
I knew you would never really ask me to do anything wrong." " Well,
then, if you were quite certain in your own mind that it was only an
experiment, why did you not carry it out ? " " Because I did not wish
to do what was wrong, even in jest." " If then, I asked you to put a
lump of sugar in some one's tea and told you it was arsenic, would you
do so?" "No, certainly not." "Not even if you were quite certain
that it was only sugar ? " " No." " Why ? " " Because I should be
pretending to commit a crime."
I found with this patient, however, that, although she was able to
refuse a suggestion, she was unable to prevent its fulfilment after
having accepted it. For instance, if I suggested to her in hypnosis
that she should place her hands together and lose the power of
separating them, she could reject the suggestion if she pleased. On the
other hand, if she accepted the suggestion and placed her hands
together, she was unable to separate them, even when encouraged to do
so by the exercise of her own volition.
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 201
In reply to further questions in hypnosis, she said she felt sure she
could refuse any suggestion. That she felt she was herself, that she
knew where she was and what she was doing. " Are you the same
person asleep as awake?" I asked. "Yes," she replied, with a laugh.
She described the condition as a sort of losing herself and yet not
losing herself. She knew and heard all that was going on, and yet
seemed to be taking no notice of it. When Mr. Barkworth was put en
rapport with her she remembered his voice, which she had heard on a
previous occasion when not en rapport with him. She said she was
resting all the time, and that nothing she did or thought tired her. I
asked her what it felt like to have her arm made cataleptic by sugges
tion. She replied, " I did not feel frightened, but I felt startled. I
think it would surprise any one." " When you awake and find your
arm still rigid, what do you feel then?" "I feel amused." "When
you are sleeping here and no one is talking to you, do you ever think
of anything?" "Yes! One day I was troubled about my dressmaking.
My employer was ill and I had more responsibility than usual. I had
a difficult piece of work to do and could not understand how it was to
be done. When asleep here I planned how I would do it and carried
this out successfully when I returned home. When I awoke I did not
know that I had done this ; the way out of the difficulty suddenly came
into my mind on my way home. I now remember planning while
asleep what I carried out."
On one occasion, after being hypnotised, and when she was
apparently in the lethargic condition, she suddenly volunteered the
statement that her mother wished to speak to me. Shortly afterwards
her mother came into the room. The patient was still asleep and no
suggestions of rapport were made. Her mother commenced to tell me
about a friend in whom she was interested, with a view to finding out
whether I thought hypnotic treatment would be of benefit in his case.
The patient suddenly joined in the conversation, and added some
important details which her mother had forgotten. On awaking she
remembered nothing in reference to this.
On another occasion, under similar circumstances, her mother
questioned me in reference to a trivial indisposition from which the
patient was suffering, and asked me whether I thought she might give
her a certain simple remedy. "Upon this the patient commenced to
laugh, and recounted iu a highly amused manner an experiment of her
mother's in domestic medicine, of which she had been the unfortunate
victim.
I obtained the following account of the hypnotic condition from
another patient, an educated, intelligent woman. She said, " When
asleep I still feel that I am myself, and can think and reason just as
well as when I am awake. I could resist any suggestion if I wanted
202 Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
to do so. The sensation is a pleasant one, as if I were getting rested
all over. I am not conscious of other sounds, except your voice. When
you are not talking to me the condition is generally a blank. At such
times I occasionally, but rarely, think and sometimes spontaneously
recall the events of past hypnoses."
Another educated patient, a very good somnambule, described her
state in similar terms. She said, " I feel a kind of restfulness which I
do not get in any other condition of life. I feel no fatigue. External
sounds, other than your voice, I hear vaguely, as if in a dream, and
pay no attention to them. I still feel myself and can reason just as
well as if I were awake." When her arm is made stiff, this appears
quite natural, as she recognises it is done as an experiment. She feels
certain she could refuse any suggestion which she disapproved of and
would not carry out an imaginary crime, even if she knew it was only
an experiment. This patient readily accepted suggestions of
anaesthesia and analgesia, and was unable to remember in the waking
state either painful sensations or tactile impressions. On being
rehypnotised, however, though she could not recall any sensation of
pain, she was able to state where she had been pinched or pricked
and to describe the tactile impressions associated with these operations.
Rapport.
I have never observed any peculiar rapport between the subject
and the operator, when direct and indirect suggestions in reference
to this condition have been carefully excluded. I could always, how
ever, readily induce the condition by suggestion.
Methods of Awaking.
I have never experienced any difficulty in terminating the hypnotic
condition. All that is required is to suggest during hypnosis that the
patient shall awake at a given signal.
Beinduction of Hypnosis.
Once genuine hypnosis has been obtained, the condition can be
reproduced immediately at any subsequent time. It is only necessary
to suggest during hypnosis that in future the patient shall pass into
that state when told to do so.
Self-Hypnosis.
Except in cases where hypnosis had been previously induced by
others, I have never met with an instance in which a subject had
succeeded in hypnotising himself. On the other hand, all hypnotic
subjects can be trained to do so, by suggestion in hypnosis. All that is
necessary is to suggest that they should fall asleep on looking at the
operator's signature, or on counting up to five, or, indeed, in any
Personally observed Hypnotic Phenomena. 203
other way which has been arranged. The subject then can hypnotise
himself at any time and also suggest the various phenomena which he
desires to obtain. He can, for example, place himself en rapport with
his dentist and have hi% teeth painlessly extracted. Some of my
patients still possess and exercise this power, which was first suggested
to them six years ago.
Multiple Suggestions.
Numerous suggestions can be carried out simultaneously by one
and the same patient.
This fact is of considerable importance in reference to certain
hypnotic theories, which are based upon the state of the attention.
One can suggest, for example, at the same time, paralysis of one arm
and catalepsy of the other ; excited action of the special senses on
one side of the body and diminished or arrested on the other, &c.
Suggestion in Disease.
The phenomena described so far have, with few exceptions, been
those induced in healthy subjects. The result of suggestion in disease,
by far its most important field of action in my opinion, I cannot
describe in detail before a non-medical audience. I may state, however,
that I have been able to confirm many of the observations reported
from abroad. I have seen, for example, the removal of pain in various
diseases, and its prevention in operation ; the habit of sleep restored
in those suffering from insomnia, and many functional diseases cured
which had long resisted other forms of treatment ; obsessions and
painful memories blotted out ; dipsomania, kleptomania, and other
vicious habits corrected, and many functions of organic life, which were
performed imperfectly or painfully, restored to their normal condition.
Conclusion.
If I were asked in one word to describe the difference between the
hypnotised and the non-hypnotised subject, I should say that it con
sisted in the superiority of the former over the latter in his having
acquired a far-reaching power over his own organism, which the other
does not share. This view of the hypnotic state is not a novel one,
and has already been ably described by Mr. Frederic Myers. In
addition, I desire to emphasise the fact—denied by some, half-heartedly
conceded by others—that this increased power carries with it no
penalty, and implies no interference with volition ; and that the subject
can reject when asleep, as readily as when awake, all suggestions
which are contrary to his moral sense.
204 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
II.
WHAT IS HYPNOTISM?
By Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
The answers to this question have been so numerous and conflicting
that it would be impossible, in the space at my disposal, to give even a
brief summary of them. I propose, therefore, only to draw your
attention to some of the more important, and to consider these more
especially in reference to the theories of James Braid. Two points
seem to me worthy of special notice :—
1. Apparently little of value has been discovered which can justly
be considered as supplementary to Braid's later work, while much has
been lost through ignorance of his investigations.
2. The theories of the mesmerists, which he so successfully
combatted, still apparently survive. There not only exist, as the
questions and statements of one of the audience at my last lecture
apparently indicate, frankly avowed believers in mesmerism, but, as
we shall see later, views that differ only in name from those of the
mesmerists still crop up in strange and unexpected places.
Modern hypnotism undoubtedly owes its origin to mesmerism and,
to understand its evolution, a clear conception of mesmeric theories is
necessary. The views of Esdaile may be regarded as a fair summary
of them.
Esdaile's Theory.
Esdaile believed that mesmeric phenomena were due to the action
of a vital curative fluid, or peculiar physical force, which, under certain
circumstances, could be transmitted from one animal to another.
Various inanimate objects, such as metals, crystals and magnets, were
also supposed to possess it, and to be capable of inducing and
terminating the mesmeric state, and of exciting, arresting or modifying
its phenomena. One metal, for example, would produce catalepsy,
another change this into paralysis ; a glass of water could be charged
with odyllic force by being breathed upon by the mesmeriser, etc.
Braid's Theories.
Braid explained hypnotic phenomena from two widely differing
standpoints; first regarding them as mainly physical in their origin, and
What is Hypnotism ? 205
then, at a later date, as chiefly psychical. From the commencement,
however, to the termination of his researches he held practically the
same view as to the origin of mesmeric phenomena. In many instances
he regarded the phenomena themselves as genuine, considering their
explanation only as erroneous. As the result of long and careful experi
ment, he claimed to have proved that the various mesmeric phenomena
could be excited when all their alleged causes had been carefully
eliminated, and also that the supposed exciting causes were non
effective when the subjects were ignorant of their existence. The
marvels only appeared when the various physical stimuli were
associated with mental impressions, and were invariably absent when
these were excluded. An imitation magnet, for example, produced
all the usual phenomena when the subject was told of its presence,
while a real magnet produced nothing when the subject was unaware
that it had been brought in contact with him.
Braid's Physical Theory.
Braid held that mesmeric and hypnotic phenomena were due
neither to volition on the part of the operator, nor to his possession of
any mysterious force or fluid, but were mainly due to physical changes
that took place in the subject. These, which consisted in the
exhaustion of certain nerve centres with resulting decrease in the
functional activity of the central nervous system, arose from the
continued monotonous stimulation of other nerves, e.g., those of the
eye by means of fixed gazing, those of the skin by passes with contact.
At this time (1843), Braid agreed with the mesmerists on one point,
viz., that the mesmeric or hypnotic state could be induced without the
subject's knowledge. His belief in phrenology also had its analogy in
mesmeric theory. Thus, Braid held that certain phenomena could
be induced by pressure upon sensitive points of the head, and the
mesmerists believed that others could be excited by bringing various
inanimate objects in contact with different parts of the body. At a
later date Braid abandoned his physical theory, and, with it, all belief
in phrenology. To his psychical theory I will refer later ; meanwhile,
I wish to call your attention to some other physical explanations of
hypnotic phenomena.
Charcot's Theory, or that of the SalpStriere School.
According to this school, hypnosis is an artificially produced morbid
condition, characterised by certain chemical changes in the secretions
^—a neurosis only to be found in the hysterical. Women are more
easily hypnotised than men ; children and old people are almost entirely
insusceptible.
206 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
Hypnosis can be produced by purely physical means, such as
pressure on certain regions of the body ; and a person can be hypnotised,
as it were, unknown to himself.
The hypnotic phenomena are divided into three different stages,
which usually appear in regular sequence. These are induced and
terminated by certain definite physical stimuli.
Hypnotism has so far not proved of much therapeutic value.
There is danger of provoking hysteria in trying to induce hypnosis.
There is a difference between suggestion in normal life and in
hypnosis. The former is a physiological phenomenon, the latter a
pathological one. Suggestibility does not constitute hypnosis, it is
only one of its symptoms. There does not exist a single case in which
a somnambule has acted criminally under the influence of suggestion.
This theory has been strongly attacked, chiefly by the hypnotic
observers who belong to what is termed the Nancy School. To
commence with, they point out the insufficiency of the data upon which
the theory has been founded, and cite the confession of its own
supporters that only a dozen cases of true hypnosis have occurred in
the Salpetriere in ten years, and that a very large proportion of the
experiments were conducted on one subject, who had long been an
inmate of that hospital. On the other hand, they call attention to the
extended nature of their own observations and to the fact that their
conclusions are drawn from the study of many thousand cases.
Is Hypnosis a Morbid Condition which can only be Induced in the
Hysterical, ?
This question must, I think, be answered in the negative. Moll,
in reference to Charcot's argument that hypnotism and hysteria are
identical, because the chemical character of certain secretions is similar
in both, pointed out that Charcot's subjects all suffered from hysteria ;
and that, as the phenomena which characterise waking life are readily
induced in hypnosis, Charcot easily created a complete type of
hysteria by suggestion. It would be equally easy to suggest stammering
in hypnosis, but one would not be justified, therefore, in characterising
hypnosis as a condition of stammering.
Again, as the following statistics show, if the hysterical alone can
be hypnotised, over 90 per cent, of mankind apparently suffer from
hysteria. Some years ago, Bernheim had already attempted to
hypnotise 10,000 hospital patients with over 90 per cent, of successes,
while "Wetterstrand recently reported 6,500 cases with 105 failures.
Schrenck-Notzing in his First International Statistics, published in
1892, gave 8,705 cases by 15 observers in different countries, with 6 per
cent, of failures. Mr. HughWingfield, when Demonstrator of Physiology
at Cambridge, attempted to hypnotise over 170 men, all of whom, with
What is Hypnotism ? 207
the exception of 18, were undergraduates. In about 80 per cent.,
hypnosis was induced at the first attempt ; but as no second trial was
ever made with the unsuccessful cases, these results undoubtedly
understate the susceptibility. (See Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VI.,
p. 198.) Most of the undergraduates would be drawn from our public
schools, and, if these do not always turn out good scholars, they cannot
at least be accused of producing hysterical invalids. Braid stated that
the nervous and hysterical were the most difficult to hypnotise, while
Liebeault found soldiers and sailors particularly easy to influence.
Grossmann, of Berlin, recently asserted that hard-headed North
Germans were very susceptible, and I observed that healthy Yorkshire
farm labourers made remarkably good subjects. Professor Forel told
me that he had hypnotised nearly all his asylum warders ; that he
selected these himself and certainly did not choose them from the ranks
of the hysterical. In former times Esdaile's patients were stated to be
hysterical. In reply to this, he said, " I cannot possibly see how
hysteria has got into my hospitals, where I never saw it before—
coolies and felons not being at all nervous subjects. . . . As
natural hysteria may be supposed to be more powerful than imitation,
I shall look with impatience for the announcement, in the Morning
Post, that Mrs. Freake has been cured of her nervous headaches by the
skilful application of hysteria, and that Lady Tantrum has had her
arm cut off while in a fit of hysterics, without knowing it. These
should be easy feats for our fashionable physicians and surgeons, as
they have the disease and antidote ready made to their hands, whereas
it costs me and my assistants great trouble to make the coolies and
prisoners of Bengal hysterical to the degree necessary to render them
insensible to the loss of their members."
These and similar facts apparently justify the statements of Forel
and Moll that it is not the healthy but the hysterical who are the
most difficult to hypnotise. According to the former, " every mentally
healthy man is naturally hypnotisable " ; while the latter says, " if we
take a pathological condition of the organism as necessary for hypnosis,
we shall be obliged to conclude that nearly everybody is not quite right
in the head. . The mentally unsound, particularly idiots, are much
more difficult to hypnotise than the healthy. Intelligent people, and
those with strong wills, are more easily hypnotisable than the dull, the
stupid, or the weak-willed."
Are Women more Susceptible than Men 1
All observers, with the exception of those of the Salpetriere School,
agree in stating that sex has little or no influence upon the suscepti
bility to hypnosis. According to Liebeault, the difference between the
sexes is rather less than 1 per cent. The majority of Esdaile's subjects
P
208 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
were men and, as we have seen, Mr. Wingfield was able to hypnotise
about 80 per cent, of the Cambridge undergraduates at the first
attempt.
Are Children and Old People Insusceptible ?
Wetterstrand found that all children from 3 or 4 to 15 years of age
could be influenced without exception. Dr. Berillon, out of 250 cases
in children, hypnotised 80 per cent, at the first attempt. Liébeault
also found children peculiarly susceptible, and one of his statistical
tables records 100 per cent of successes up to the age of 14. In adult
life, age apparently makes little difference. In the same table we find
that from the ages of 14 to 21 the failures were about 10 per cent.,
and from 63 years and upwards about 13 per cent.
Can Hypnosis be Induced by Mechanical Means alone 1
This question is answered by the Nancy School in the negative,
and my own experience agrees with this. I know of no single
instance where hypnosis has followed the employment of mechanical
means, when mental influences have been carefully excluded, and the
subjects have been absolutely ignorant of what was expected of them.
No one was ever hypnotised by looking at a lark-mirror, until Dr.
Luys had borrowed this lure from the bird-catchers and invested it
with hypnotic power. On the other hand, any physical method will
succeed with a susceptible subject who knows what is expected of him.
Are Hypnotic Phenomena divided into three Distinct Stages 1
The stages described by the Salpetriere School, as arising from
definite physical stimuli, have never been noticed by other observers.
Amongst the many hundred hypnotised subjects I have seen, none
have responded to the manipulations which produced such striking
phenomona at the Salpetriere. On the other hand, I and many
others have found that we could easily evoke these stages by verbal
suggestion, and train the patients to manifest them at any given signal.
The condition, however, was always an artificial one.
Is Hypnotism of little Therapeutic Value 1
On the one hand, we have the negative evidence of a few cases
observed at the Salpetriere, where experiment, not cure, seemed the main
end. On the other, the positive evidence, drawn from many thousands
of cases, where hypnotism has been successfully employed for the relief
or cure of disease.
Is Hypnotism Dangerous ?
The Salpetriere School answer this in the affirmative, asserting that
hysterical symptoms have sometimes appeared after the attempted
What is Hypnotism ? 209
induction of hypnosis. That such phenomena should occur with them
is not surprising, when one considers the nature of the subjects and
their surroundings, and the violent and startling methods sometimes
resorted to. The slight accidents which they record have not occurred
in other and more experienced hands. Professor Forel says :—
"Liébeault, Bernheim, Wetterstrand, van Eeden, de Jong, Moll, I
myself, and the other followers of the Nancy School, declare
categorically that, although we have seen many thousands of hypnotised
persons, we have never observed a single case of mental or bodily
harm caused by hypnosis, but, on the contrary, have seen many
cases of illness relieved or cured by it." This statement I can fully
endorse, as I have never seen an unpleasant symptom, even of the
most trivial nature, follow the skilled induction of hypnosis.
Can various Physical and Mental Phenomena be excited by the
Application, or near Presence, of certain Metals, Magnets, and other
Inanimate Objects ?
Here, in the assertions of the Salpetriere School and their
refutation by that of Nancy, we have an exact counterpart of the
controversy between Braid and the mesmerists. All the old errors, the
result of ignoring mental influences, are again revived. Medicines are
again alleged to exercise an influence from within sealed tubes. The
physical and mental conditions of one subject are stated to be
transferable to another, or even to an inanimate object. It is useless
to enter into any arguments to refute these statements, for this would
be repeating the work of Braid. Indeed, in many instances their
absurdity renders argument unnecessary. For example, when a sealed
tube containing laurel flower water was brought near a Jewish girl of
disorderly life, she adored the Virgin Mary. From this it might be
inferred that different religious beliefs were represented by different
nerve centres, and that these could be called into action by appropriate
physical stimuli. Should this be established, it could hardly fail to
have an important influence upon the character and direction of
missionary enterprise ! The chief apostle of these doctrines is Luys ;
and considerable attention was drawn to them in England a few
years ago by popular articles in the daily papers and elsewhere.
Indeed, the editor of a well-known medical journal thought them
of sufficient importance to demand his writing a book in order to
disprove them. He apparently was ignorant of the fact that M.
Dujardin-Beaumetz, in 1888, reported to the Académie de Meclecine
that Luys' experiments were conducted so carelessly as to rob them
of all value, and that among students of hypnotism they are entirely
disregarded.
p 2
210 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
The two remaining points, namely, the question of criminal sug
gestion and that of suggestion in general in relation to hypnotism, I
will refer to in discussing the theories of the Nancy School.
Heidenhain's Theory.
According to Heidenhain, the phenomena of hypnotism owe their
origin to the arrested activity of the ganglion-cells of the cerebral
cortex. He holds that these higher centres are inhibited by the
monotonous stimulation of other nerves, e.g., by fixed gazing, passes,
etc., and that sensory impressions, which usually produce movements
after passing to the higher centres and evoking consciousness, now do
so by passing directly to the motor centres. This is essentially a
" short-circuiting of nervous currents " theory. Heidenhain regards the
hypnotised subject as a pure automaton, who imitates movements made
before him, but who is entirely unconscious of what he is doing. To
cause him to move his arm, he says, the image of a moving arm must
pass before his retina, or an unconscious sensation of motion must be
induced through passive movement of his arm. The patient has no
idea corresponding to the movements he makes ; the sensory impression
leads to no conscious perception and to no voluntary movement, but
suffices to set up unconscious imitation. In reference to the playing
of different parts by hypnotised subjects, Heidenhain says that it is a
mistake to suppose that the subjects realise what they are doing : this
is quite out of the question ; the hypnotised individual neither thinks
nor knows anything about himself. Heidenhain holds that the fact
of the hypnotised subject's forgetfulness of the sensations he has
experienced during hypnosis affords satisfactory evidence that these
sensations were unconscious ones. This theory was first published in
1880, and attracted considerable attention. It was accepted, for
example, by Professor McKendrick, of Glasgow, and re stated by him,
in the last Edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, as giving a true
and scientific explanation of the phenomena of so-called animal
magnetism.
To this explanation many objections may be urged, thus :—
(1) It is a mistake, as Gurney pointed out, to call the hypnotic
action on the cortical functions inhibition, without stating explicitly
that the normal action of these functions in respect to motion is to a
large extent inhibitory, and that the complete description of the
method by which the automatic reflex responses are brought about, is
thus " inhibition of the inhibitory functions."
(2) While giving an elaborate exposition of the theory of cerebral
inhibition produced by peripheral stimulation, Heidenhain omits to
take into consideration the result of central stimulation by means of
What is Hypnotism ? 211
an idea or emotion. As hypnosis can be equally well induced in this
way, we cannot accept Heidenhain's theory, as he wishes that we
should do, in substitution for that of " dominant ideas." It cannot
justly be considered as an alternative to it, as it is merely the physio
logical statement of psychical facts.
(3) The theory itself is not a new one ; with the exception of a few
details, it is essentially an imperfect reproduction of that of the late
Professor John Hughes Bennett, of Edinburgh, published in 1851.
But Bennett, as we shall see later, possessed a clearer view of the whole
problem and did not fall into the mistake of attempting to substitute
the physiological statement of psychical facts for the facts themselves.
(4) Hypnosis can be induced, not only in the absence of monotonous
peripheral stimulation, but even without any peripheral stimulation at
all. At the present day it is usually evoked by central stimulation,
which, in those who have been previously hypnotised, need not be
persistently monotonous ; the single word " Sleep " being then sufficient
to excite the condition. In such cases, the factor which Heidenhain
regards as essential to the production of hypnotic phenomena, i.e.,
monotonous peripheral stimulation, is absent.
(5) Instead of a hypnotised subject imitating a movement which
he sees and failing to perform one which is verbally suggested to
him, the reverse is actually the case. As a rule, the slightest verbal
suggestion is sufficient to induce the movements described by Heiden
hain ; on the other hand, hypnotised subjects never copy movements
made before them unless they have been trained to do so. The
imitative movements only take place, according to Moll, when the
hypnotic subject is conscious of them, and knows that he is intended
to make them. If they were unconscious reflexes, the subjects would
imitate any person's movements, but they only imitate the one person
who exists for them, i.e., the experimenter, and him only when they
know he wishes them to do so. A clear idea of the movements to be
made is the first condition. When such experiments are often repeated,
the imitation may become automatic in later hypnoses, as happens in
waking life. At first, however, a clear idea is necessary ; but as we
regard the cerebral cortex as the seat of ideas, and as there is no
reason for shifting them to another part of the brain in hypnosis, so
there can be no doubt of the activity of the cerebral cortex.
(6) According to Gurney, Heidenhain's only argument is based
upon the subject's subsequent defect of memory ; he thus assumes, as
his sole test for present consciousness, the subsequent remembrance of
its content. Yet, as Gurney says, if the reality of that test be granted,
the question whether a man was conscious when he read an article in
the Times, will depend on whether or not he receives a blow on the
head when he has finished it. Gurney further points out that there is
212 Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
a more radical objection to all these arguments founded on subsequent
loss of memory,—the fact, namely, that memory is frequently present.
Braid, for example, found that only some 10 per cent, of his subjects
were unable to recall the events of hypnosis, while Schrenck-Notzing's
International Statistics of 8705 cases give 15 per cent. Again, if on
waking the act performed during hypnosis is forgotten, the lost
memory can be revived in subsequent hypnoses; and, finally, the
amnesia, which would otherwise follow deep hypnosis, can be entirely
prevented by suggestion.
Mr. Ernest Hart's Theories.
Mr. Hart has also attempted to explain the phenomena of hypnotism
from a physical standpoint. His theories in themselves demand little
or no attention, as they are almost entirely unsupported by experi
mental evidence. On the other hand, from his position as Editor of
the British Medical Journal, he has had exceptional opportunities of
making them known to the medical profession. According to Mr.
Hart, the hypnotised subject " is reduced more or less perfectly to the
state of a living automaton. The upper brain is more or less com
pletely, and more or less regularly, bloodless, its functions in abeyance,
the will is abolished, suspended, or enfeebled. A hypnotised subject
will perform unconsciously, under the influence of suggestion, acts
which are dangerous to himself and others, and which are in them
selves criminal—so that he can be made to thieve, to commit arson, or
to attempt violence." He summarises his views in the following
somewhat obscure sentence :—" We have already, I hope, succeeded
in eliminating from our minds the false theory,—the theory that is
experimentally proved to be false—that the will, or the gestures, or
the magnetic or vital fluid of the operator is at all necessary for the
abolition of the consciousness and the abeyance of the will of the
subject ; and we now see that ideas arising in the mind of the
subject are sufficient to influence the circulation in the brain of the
person operated on (!), and in such variations are adequate to produce
sleep in the natural state, or artificially, by total deprivation, or by
excessive increase, or local aberration in the quantity or quality of the
blood to produce coma and prolonged insensibility by pressure of the
thumbs upon the carotid ; or hallucinations, dreams, and visions by
drugs, or by external stimulation of the nerves ; or to leave the
consciousness partially affected, and the person in whom sleep, coma,
or hallucinations is produced, subject to the will of others and in
capable of exercising his own." (See " Hypnotism and Humbug,"
Nineteenth Century, January, 1892.)
To Mr. Hart's theories there are three objections.
What is Hypnotism ? 213
(1) It is doubtful whether any of the phenomena—unconsciousness,
automatism, susceptibility to criminal suggestion,—which he regards
as characteristic of the hypnotic state, exist. The general question of
consciousness and automatism has already been referred to in dealing
with Heidenhain's theory ; that of criminal suggestion I propose to
discuss more fully in connection with the views of Bernheim and
others. Meanwhile, I may state, as the result of seven years' hypnotic
research, that I have failed, either at home or abroad, to discover a
single instance in which the phenomena described by Mr. Hart have
occurred.
(2) The presence of cerebral anaemia in hypnosis is by no means
established. The belief in its existence is an old one, which recent
investigations have done much to discredit. Many years ago Carpenter
suggested it as a possible explanation of at least some hypnotic
phenomena, and Hack Tuke also considered there was a partial spasm
of the cerebral blood vessels in hypnosis. Heidenhain too at first
supposed that anaemia of the brain was the cause of hypnosis. He
soon gave up this opinion for several reasons : (a) He saw hypnosis
appear in spite of the inhalation of nitrite of amyl, which causes
hyperaemia of the brain, (b) The investigations of Forster discovered
no change in the vessels at the back of the eye during hypnosis, (c)
Salviole and Bouchut found cerebral hyperaemia during hypnosis.
(3) Granting that cerebral anaemia exists, to assume that it explains
the phenomena of hypnosis is unscientific. For, as Professor William
James points out, the change in the circulation is the result, not the
cause, of the altered activity of the nervous matter. Many popular
writers, he says, talk as if it were the other way about, and as if mental
activity were due to the afflux of blood. That belief has no
physiological foundation whatever ; it is even directly opposed to all
that we know of cell life. The stomach does not digest because more
blood flows into it, nor do the muscles of the arm contract for a similar
reason ; on the contrary, their increased blood supply follows their
increased functional activity.
Hypnosis in Animals.
Mr. Hart believes that animals, such as guinea-pigs, rabbits, frogs,
birds, crayfish, and even young alligators can be hypnotised by
methods similar to those employed with the human subject, and that
they present like phenomena. The only argument in favour of this is
drawn from the fact that these animals, after certain physical stimuli
have been applied to them, present the phenomenon of catalepsy. Is
this catalepsy invariably a genuine one ? I am inclined to think that
in many instances it is a conscious simulation of death, adopted by the
animal from the instinctive knowledge of the fact that certain birds and
214 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
beasts of prey, except under pressure of extreme hunger, will not attack
what is dead. If, for example, you turn a beetle over on its back it
will remain motionless and apparently cataleptic, with its legs sticking
rigidly in the air. The moment you turn away, however, it scrambles
to its feet and resumes its journey. Here death or catalepsy was in
all probability only shammed, and doubtless the insect was keenly
watching your every movement and anxiously waiting for your
departure. Again, catalepsy is only one, and a comparatively
unimportant, phenomenon of hypnosis. One of the main characteristics
of the hypnotic state is the rapidity with which one phenomenon can
be changed into its opposite. Have we any evidence of this in the
so-called hypnosis of animals 1 I think not. Again, is it logical to
conclude similarity of cause from identity of effect 1 In order to induce
hypnotic catalepsy in the human subject, a clear idea of the suggested
act is necessary. What evidence have we for concluding that a cray
fish becomes cataleptic from a clear idea that the operator has suggested
this condition ? It is possible that in some instances the phenomenon
is genuine, and then, according to Preyer, the condition is one of
paralysis resulting from fright. Now fear is not necessary for the
induction of hypnosis ; and, before concluding that the condition is a
hypnotic one, it would be wise to exclude this factor from the equation.
To do this experimentally would not be difficult ; it would only be
necessary to get rid of the disproportion between the size and strength
of the operator and the animal, a disproportion which, in the experi
ments referred to, has always existed in favour of the hypnotiser.
Instead of a young alligator, let one of greater age and larger growth
be chosen and the experiment repeated. I am inclined to think that
in such a case the roles would be reversed, the operator would become
cataleptic and the subject uncommonly and disagreeably mobile.
Again, Mr. Hart holds that hypnosis can be induced only in the
hysterical, in those possessing ill-balanced nervous systems. What
evidence have we for the existence of hysteria in the alligator 1 I
think none, and yet the spectacle of an alligator executing " grands
mouvements" or even "mouvements passionnels " would have been
certain to have attracted attention.
Braid's Later or Psychical Theory.
According to this theory the hypnotic condition was essentially one
of mental concentration or monoideism, in which the mind was so
engrossed with a single idea as to render it dead to all other influences.
All the phenomena, no matter how hypnosis was induced, resulted
entirely from dominant ideas aroused in the minds of the subjects.
The attention was concentrated upon the particular function called
into action, while the others passed into a state of torpor. Only one
What is Hypnotism ? 215
function was active at any one time, and hence intensely so. The
arousing of any dormant function was equivalent to superseding the
one in action.
In his earlier theories Braid attached most importance to the
physiological changes associated with hypnosis ; in his later, to the
psychological ones. He never entirely separated the two, however ;
and when he explained the condition by means of monoideism, he still
clearly stated that this depended upon a definite physical change in
the subject. This resulted from the methods employed to induce
hypnosis, and alone rendered the mental condition possible. In his
later works he gives no further elaboration of his physical theory and
for this we must turn to Professor John Hughes Bennett, who adopted
Braid's view in reference to monoideism, and explained it both from
the physiological and psychological side.
Bennett's Physiological Theory.
According to Bennett, hypnosis was characterised by alterations in
the functional activity of the nerve tubes of the white matter of the
cerebral lobes. He suggested that a certain proportion of these
became paralysed through continued monotonous stimulation, while
the action of others was consequently exalted. As these tubes, "fibres
of association " as they have been called, connect the cerebral ganglion-
cells, suspension of their functions was assumed to bring with it
interruption of the connection between the ganglion-cells.
Bennett's Psychical Theory.
From the psychical side, he explained the phenomena of hypnosis by
the action of predominant and unchecked ideas. These were able to
obtain prominence from the fact that other ideas, which under ordinary
circumstances would have controlled their development, did not arise ;
because the portion of the brain with which they were associated had
its action temporarily suspended, i.e., the connection between the
ganglion-cells was broken, owing to the interrupted connection
between the fibres of association. Thus, he says, the remembrance of
a sensation can always be called up by the brain ; but, under ordinary
circumstances, from the exercise of judgment, comparison, and other
mental faculties, we know it is only a remembrance. When these
faculties are exhausted, the suggested idea predominates and the
individual believes in its reality. In this manner we attribute to the
faculties of the mind as a whole a certain power of correcting the
fallacies which each one of them is liable to fall into, in the same
way that the illusions of . one sense are capable of being detected by
the healthy use of other senses. There are illusions, mental and
216 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
sensorial ; the former caused by predominant ideas and corrected by
proper reasoning ; the latter caused by perversion of one sense and
corrected by the right application of the others.
In hypnosis, then, according to this theory, a suggested idea
obtained prominence and created mental and sensorial illusions, because
the check action—the inhibitory power—of certain higher centres had
been temporarily suspended. These theories were first published by
Professor Bennett in 1851.
If we confine ourselves entirely to the psychological side of this
conception of hypnosis, we find an almost identical picture of the
condition presented by certain later observers, such as Gurney and
Bernheim.
Gurney's Theory.
After referring to the certain and isolated way in which suggestion
evokes a particular idea in the mind of the subject, Gurney states that
this isolation of a single object in the mind naturally implies abeyance
of the normal controlling and relating powers. In the normal state,
he says, successive vivid points of consciousness are surrounded by a
swarm of subordinate perceptions and ideas, by reference to which
conduct is instinctively or subconsciously kept rational. In the
hypnotic state the contact is broken between the predominant idea and
this attendant swarm ; and conduct thus ceases to have reference to
anything except the predominant idea. The hypnotic mind is working
with marked absence of individuality in the channel chosen by others;
and what its owner says or does, in response to external influence, is
that on which his attention is concentrated to the complete exclusion
of every other thought.
Bernheim's Theory.
In hypnosis, according to Bernheim, the whole nervous force of the
subject is concentrated upon a single idea. This nervous concentration
may be changed from one point to another in response to the sugges
tions of the operator, but, though the focus shifts its place, the same
concentration continues to exist.
In the normal state, he says, we are subject to errors, illusions and
hallucinations. Sometimes these are spontaneous, or follow imperfect
sensorial impressions; at others they are suggested to us, and accepted
without being challenged. In the normal state there is a tendency to
accept ideas suggested by others and to act upon them ; but every
formulated idea is questioned and, as the result of this, either accepted
or rejected. In the hypnotised subject, on the other hand, there exists
a peculiar aptitude for transforming the suggested idea into an act.
This is so quickly accomplished that the intellectual inhibition has not
time to prevent it, and, when it comes into play, it does so too late, as
What is Hypnotism ? 217
the idea has been translated into its physical equivalent. If conscious
ness follows the suggested act, it at all events follows it too late to
interfere with its fulfilment.
While Bernheim almost exactly reproduces the views of Braid and
Bennett in reference to the general mental condition in hypnosis, he
and certain other members of the Nancy School differ from them in
many important points, and to these I now propose to call your
attention.
Points of Difference.
Braid and Bennett, as we have seen, regarded the phenomena of
hypnosis as the result of a definite physical change in the subject ;
Bernheim, on the other hand, attempts to explain them (1) by finding
an analogy between them and the phenomena of the normal state, and
(2) by means of suggestion.
According to Bernheim, hypnotic phenomena are analogous to
many normal acts of an automatic, involuntary and unconscious nature,
and nothing, absolutely nothing, differentiates natural and artificial
sleep. If any distinction exists at all between the normal and the
hypnotic state, this can be explained by means of suggestion. Both
the normal and the hypnotised subject can be influenced by it; but, as
we have suggested to the latter that he should become more responsive,
a peculiar aptitude for transforming the idea into an act has in this
way been artificially developed. In other words, every one is suggestible
and ifyou take some one and suggest to him to become more suggestible,
that is hypnotism ! Thus, suggestion not only excites the phenomena
of hypnosis, bnt also explains them. Suggestion, i.e., the mental
impression, including the preliminary suggestion to become more
suggestible, conveyed from the operator to the subject, is the only
essential factor in the equation, and the condition of the patient,
physical or mental, is absolutely unimportant.
This theory contains five distinct statements, none of which can
be accepted without discussion.
I. Nothing differentiates natural and artificial sleep. Hypnotic
phenomena are analogous to many normal acts of an automatic,
involuntary and unconscious nature.
II. An idea has a tendency to generate its actuality.
III. In the hypnotic state, this tendency to accept suggestions is
somewhat increased by the action of suggestion itself. Such increased
suggestibility, one of degree, not of kind, alone marks any difference
between the hypnotic and normal state,
IV. The result of suggestion in hypnosis is analogous to the result
of suggestion in the normal state.
218 Dr. J. Milne Brarawell.
V. In the four preceding propositions is to be found a complete
explanation of hypnosis and its phenomena.
In discussing the above propositions, I will, for convenience' sake,
somewhat change their order.
/.—Explanation of Hypnosis by means of a supposed General Analogy
between it and the Normal State.
My chief objections to this are :—
(1.) That an analogy, however successfully established between two
sets of phenomena, by no means explains either of them.
(2.) That the automatic, involuntary and unconscious acts, in which
Bernheim seeks to find his analogy, rarely, if ever, occur in hypnosis,
and are certainly by no means characteristic of it.
Putting aside the question of automatism, which I shall discuss
later in conjunction with suggested crimes, we find that Bernheim
believes that a complete analogy exists between the therapeutic action
of hypnosis in his hospital and the miracle cures at Lourdes. How far
these and similar phenomena resemble each other can, however, be
better dealt with under the head of suggestion.
Braid considered that marked differences existed between hypnosis
on the one hand, and natural somnambulism and the normal sleeping
and waking states on the other. A detailed account of these, which,
he thought, consisted mainly in the increased mental and physical
powers of the hypnotised subject, is to be found in the article on
Braid in Part XXX. of the Proceedings of this Society (p. 127).
III.—In Hypnosis the Tendency to accept Suggestions is somewhat
increased by the Action of Suggestion itself; this alone
distinguishes the Hypnotic from the Normal Stale.
Granting for the moment that the normal and hypnotic states are
identical ; that both are characterised by susceptibility to suggestion,
how far are we justified in concluding that increased suggestibility is
alone possessed by the hypnotic subject and affords the only difference
which distinguishes him from the normal one? Let us consider the means
by which the supposed change has been brought about. The phrase, "You
are to become more suggestible," is stated to have artificially created
it. Now, if we admit that this formula is sufficient to change a normal
into a hypnotic subject and to account for his increased suggestibility,
we must be prepared to show, in order to maintain the distinction
between the two, that the individual who is still regarded as normal,
i.e., less suggestible, has escaped similar influences. Suggestions in
normal life, however, are frequently associated with those of increased
suggestibility. A beggar, in appealing for alms, not only asks that
they should be given him, but also suggests in various ways, directly or
What is Hypnotism ? 219
indirectly, according to his skill and ingenuity, that the object of his
petition should become more responsive to his prayer, i.e., more sugges
tible. There is an important difference between the two. In hypnosis
.we attempt to gain increased power by quietly repeating some recog
nised formula once or twice, while in normal life we attempt to obtain
it in a much more forcible and varied manner. We must conclude,
then, that, if the hypnotic and normal states are identical and sugges
tion a factor common to both, suggestibility, as the result of the
methods employed to develop it, ought to be more markedly character
istic of the normal than of the hypnotic condition.
IV.—The Result of Suggestion in Hypnosis is analogous to the Result
of Suggestion in the Normal State.
If we confine ourselves to cases in which suggestion in the normal
subject has been employed in the same manner as it is used in hypnosis,
the analogy is at once seen to be an extremely imperfect one. The cold
blooded results of the action of the mind upon the body, as Mr. Myers
calls them, are extremely rare and generally unimportant. On the
other hand, if we turn to the effects of violent emotional states, we find
many phenomena have been produced by them which more or less closely
resemble the phenomena of hypnosis. Similarity of result, however,
does not necessarily imply identity of cause, and an attempted analogy,
which is based solely on the former and ignores the latter, must ever be
an imperfect one. Fear, hope, faith, or intense religious excitement is
almost invariably present in cases which are cited as analogous to
hypnotic ones. Not only are these conditions unnecessary for the
induction of hypnosis, but some of them absolutely preclude its pro
duction. Thus, hypnosis can be evoked in the absence of all those
conditions that are essential for the production of analogous phenomena
in the normal state ; and, further, the presence of some of these
conditions, instead of favouring hypnosis, hinders or prevents it.
Putting aside this important objection—the difference between the
conditions associated with the development of the phenomena—there
still remain certain points of contrast between the phenomena them
selves, which I shall now enumerate.
Suggestion in Hypnosis.
1. Once hypnosis has been induced, a wide range of phenomena,
both mental and physical, can be evoked at any time, and, with the
consent of the subject, by any one. A considerable number of
phenomena can be simultaneously produced in the same subject.
2. One phenomenon can be immediately changed into its opposite,
e.g., muscular rigidity into paralysis, anaesthesia into hyperesthesia, etc.
3. Hypnotic phenomena can be terminated at will.
220 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
4. The date of the appearance of the phenomenon can be delayed,
e.g., it can be suggested during hypnosis that it shall not appear till
twelve months afterwards.
5. The suggestion will invariably be responded to, subject to two
important limitations, i.e., that it contains nothing in opposition to the
patient's moral sense and is not beyond the range of his hypnotic
powers.
6. Under the conditions just mentioned, the exact nature of the
response can be predicted, i.e., similar stimuli produce identical results.
7. Hypnotic suggestion tends to gain strength by repetition.
8. Patients who readily respond to suggestions when hypnotised
are frequently the very subjects who have for years resisted suggestion
in the normal condition, even when this has been associated with
emotional states. For example, a patient who had long suffered from
dipsomania received many and varied suggestions in the normal state.
The grief of his friends and relatives and their repeated remonstrances
were powerful suggestions. So, too, were the loss of fortune and self-
respect, and the physical sufferings, associated with keen remorse, which
followed his drinking bouts. Twelve months passed in a home for
inebriates must also have been full of suggestion of many kinds. All
these, however, produced no result ; and yet, after a few weeks' hypnotic
treatment, the patient abandoned the alcoholic habit and still, after
the lapse of six years, remains an abstainer.
Suggestion by Means of Emotional States.
1. The resultant phenomena are usually isolated ones or, at all
events, much more limited in number than those which can simul
taneously be evoked in the hypnotised subject.
2. One phenomenon cannot be immediately changed into its
opposite, without an alteration in the emotional state which had
produced it.
3. Emotional phenomena cannot be terminated at will.
4. The date of the appearance of the phenomena can rarely be
delayed and fixed.
5 The phenomena are evoked with less certainty than in hypnosis.
An emotional state which will produce a physical effect in one subject
will produce nothing in another.
6. The result of identical emotional states is not similar physical
phenomena. On the contrary, opposite conditions are frequently
produced in different subjects by identical emotions : e.g., fear will
paralyse one, and excite violent muscular movements in another.
7. An emotional suggestion frequently loses strength by repetition,
e.g., a subject may rapidly come to disregard former fears.
What is Hypnotism ? 221
77.—-An Idea has a Tendency to Generate its Actuality.
According to Bernheim, the suggestive phenomena of hypnosis
depend upon the fact that, in the normal subject, an idea has a
tendency to generate its actuality. This power, as we have seen, was
supposed, and erroneously so, to be artificially increased by suggestion
in the hypnotised subject alone.
Now, if we confined our attention to the hypnotic state and
considered how frequently a suggested idea, unattended by emotional
conditions, produced a rapid and definite response, we should be
inclined to admit that in hypnosis an idea had not only a tendency to
generate its actuality, but almost invariably did so.
A similar statement, however, in reference to normal life cannot be
accepted without question. If an extended statistical inquiry were
made as to the results of suggestion we should find that these would
fall under three classes.
1. Where the suggested idea had produced no result.
2. Where the result was opposite, or, at all events, different from
that intended.
3. Where the suggestion had been responded to with more or less
exactitude.
1. Where the Suggested Idea produced no Result.
A very casual glance at the events of everyday life would compel
us to conclude that this class is the commonest of the three. This is
evident, if we think of the numberless things ineffectually suggested in
the family circle, to domestics, workmen, tradespeople, friends and
acquaintances, county councillors, vestrymen, Members of Parliament,
and even to the Prime Minister himself !
2. Where the Result produced was Opposite, or, at all events, Different
from that intended.
In point of numbers this class possibly comes second, but, in regard
to the annoyance associated with it, it might be considered to stand first.
Numerous examples can easily be cited. Thus, if a thief snatches my
watch from me, and I suggest to him to stop, he, on the contrary, runs
the faster. If a street arab is making a noise under my window and I
tell him to cease and go away, he not only persists, but incites others
to join him. If I suggest to a Liberal friend to become a Home Ruler,
he rejects the idea and joins the opposite party. If a servant asks for
a rise in wages, this frequently results in his dismissal.
3. Where the Suggestion has been Responded to with more or less
Exactitude.
When we compare the results of this class with those obtained in
the others they must, I am afraid, sink into insignificance. For one
222 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
suggestion which has generated its actuality, we must count at least a
hundred which have produced nothing, and possibly ten where the result
has been an unexpected or disagreeable one. I would therefore restate
the proposition as follows :—
1. A suggested idea has generally a tendency to generate nothing.
2. A suggested idea has frequently a tendency to generate its
opposite.
3. A suggested idea rarely tends to generate its actuality.
V.—In the four preceding Propositions is to be found a complete
Explanation of Hypnosis and its Phenomena.
So far we have been occupied in discussing the facts upon which
Bemheim's theoretical explanation of hypnosis is founded. To these
exception has been taken on every point, viz :—
I. To the supposed analogy between the phenomena of hypnosis
and automatic, involuntary and unconscious acts of normal life.
III. To the statement that suggestion increases suggestibility in the
hypnotised subject alone.
IV. To the general analogy between the result of suggestion in the
normal state and in hypnosis.
II. To the general principle that, in normal life, an idea has a
tendency to generate its actuality.
Of all these statements there is only one I am prepared to accept,
namely, that suggestion plays an important part in evoking hypnotic
phenomena. There remains for our consideration the question how far
suggestion explains the phenomena of hypnosis.
I wish first, however, to refer to Braid's views regarding suggestion.
"While Braid held that hypnotic phenomena resulted from dominant
ideas in the mind of the subject, he, at the same time, stated that it
was a matter of indifference whether these had existed previously, or
were afterwards audibly suggested by the operator, or indirectly
created by the sensory impressions resulting from his manipulations.
Self-suggestion,
Braid cites many instances in which hypnosis and its phenomena
were entirely the result of self-suggestion, although they were supposed
to be due to other causes.
Passes and other Manipulations.
According to Braid, everything which produces a new impression
is capable of modifying existing functions, whether the impression be
of a mental or physical nature. Hence he thought it possible that
passes might have a physical effect through mechanical agitation of the
What is Hypnotism ? 223
air, by touch, or by producing some change in the temperature or
electrical states. In support of this, he drew attention to the fact
that physical impressions, too slight to arouse consciousness, might yet
produce potent results ; for example, although a person did not notice
he was sitting in a draught, this might cause rheumatism. He con
sidered that physical methods acted most powerfully, however, when
they directly excited mental action, either by fixing the attention on
one part or function of the body and withdrawing it from others,
or by arousing ideas previously associated with the physical impression.
In reference to the latter point, he says, this is simply an inversion of
the ordinary sequence between mental and muscular excitation.
Under ordinary circumstances the mental impression precedes and
excites the physical one, but here the order of events is reversed.
The touch calls into play the muscles constituting the " anatomy of
expression " of any given passion or emotion, idea or train of thought ;
and, secondly, this physical expression suggests to the mind of the
subject the corresponding idea with which it has been previously
associated in the waking condition. Though Braid explained the
action of passes in this way, he also drew attention to the fact that
their effects might be neutralised or even reversed by direct suggestion.
Thus, he said, suppose the operator, while making the passes, spoke
aloud and predicted what would happen, the verbal suggestion might
be so strong as to cause the predicted manifestation to be realised
instead of what otherwise would have been the case ; and thus, from
this time forward, through the action of the hypnotic memory, a similar
impression on that part or organ of sense would recall the previously
associated idea and manifestation. Though Braid at first employed
passes, dec., he almost entirely discarded these methods when he began
to regard hypnotic phenomena from a psychical standpoint. He then
stated distinctly that the value of mechanical means was purely
suggestive and that direct verbal suggestion was best for exciting the
phenomena of hypnosis, whether experimental or therapeutic. His
usual method was as follows : after hypnotising his patients, he stated
in a confident manner the results he wished to obtain and, in certain
subjects, found that these could be varied by a simple change in the
voice. Thus, if he made a patient see an imaginary sheep, and then
asked him in a cheerful manner what colour it was, this tone usually
elicited the reply "White," or some light colour. If he then asked,
"What colour is it now?" giving a sad intonation to the word now,
the reply would usually be " Black."
The difference between Braid and the Nancy School, with regard to
suggestion, is entirely one of theory, not of practice. Braid employed
verbal suggestion in hypnosis just as constantly and just as intelligently
as any member of the Nancy School, This fact is denied by Bernheim,
Q
224 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
who states that Braid did not dream of using verbal suggestion in
therapeutics ; but his statement has its sole origin in ignorance of
Braid's later work and writings. Braid, however, while agreeing with
Bernheim as to the practical use of suggestion, differs entirely from him
in his theoretical conception of it. He did not consider suggestion as
explanatory of hypnotic phenomena, but, like Mr. Myers at a later
date, regarded it simply as an artifice used in order to excite them.
He considered that the mental phenomena were only rendered possible
by previous physical changes and, as the result of these, the operator
was enabled to act like an engineer and, by means of suggestion, to
excite and direct the forces which existed in the subject's own body.
Before discussing the general question of how far suggestion
explains hypnotic phenomena, I wish to draw attention to the
difference between the views of Braid and of Forel as regards passes.
While Braid believed that the mental effect resulting from the indirect
physical action of mechanical means could be checked or reversed by
stronger and more direct verbal suggestion, he still held, and I think
justly so, that the physical impression was capable of producing both
physical and mental results. Forel, on the other hand, denies the
physical influence of mechanical processes, on the ground that
suggestion is capable of altering their supposed action. He says,
" blowing on the face no longer awakens my subjects, because I have
suggested that this would remove pain instead of arousing them."
From this he concludes that the act of blowing produces no result, and
considers this a powerful argument against the somatic school. Would
it not be equally logical to contend that the prick of a pin produced
no physical effect, because the patient, rendered insensible to pain by
suggestion, had been taught to regard the pin prick as the signal to
evoke some other condition t
Does Suggestion explain Hypnosis and its Phenomena 1
The answer to this question must, I think, be a distinctly negative
one. The success of suggestion depends, not on the suggestion itself, but
on conditions inherent in the subject. These are (1) willingness to accept
and carry out the suggestion, and (2) the power to do so. In the hyp
notised subject, except in reference to criminal or improper suggestions,
the first condition is generally present. The second varies according
to the depth of the hypnosis and the personality of the patient. For
instance, I might suggest analgesia, in precisely similar terms, to three
subjects and yet obtain quite different results. One might become
profoundly analgesic, the second slightly so, and the third not at all.
Just in the same way, if three jockeys attempt to make their horses
gallop a certain distance in a given time, the suggestions conveyed by
voice, spur and whip may be similar, and yet the results quite different.
What is Hypnotism ? 225
One horse, in response to suggestion, may easily cover the required
distance in the allotted time. It was both able and willing to perform
the feat The second, in response to somewhat increased suggestion,
may nearly do so. It was willing, but had not sufficient staying
power. The third, able but unwilling, not only refuses to begin the
race, but bolts off in the contrary direction. "With this horse, we have
the exact opposite of the result obtained in the first instance ; and yet
possibly the amount of suggestion it received largely exceeded that
administered to the others. As Mr. Myers has pointed out, the
operator directs the condition upon which hypnotic phenomena depend,
but does not create it. " Professor Bernheim's command, ' Feel pain
no more,' is no more a scientific instruction how not to feel pain,
than the prophet's ' Wash in Jordan and be clean ' was a pharmacopoeal
prescription for leprosy." In hypnosis, the essential condition is not the
means used to excite the phenomena, but the peculiar state which
enables them to be evoked. Suggestion no more explains the phenomena
of hypnotism than the crack of a pistol explains a boat race. Both are
simply signals, mere points of departure, and nothing more. In
Bernheim's hands, the word ''■ suggestion" has acquired an entirely new
signification, and differs only in name from the odyllic force of the
mesmerists. It has become mysterious and all-powerful, and is supposed
to be capable, not only of evoking and explaining all the phenomena of
hypnotism, but also of originating, nay even of being, the condition
itself. According to his view, suggestion not only starts the race, but
also creates the rowers and builds the boat !
Attention in Hypnosis.
While Braid and Bernheim differ as to the physical changes which
precede or accompany hypnosis, they both attach much importance to
the question of attention in reference to the induction of hypnosis
and of its phenomena.
Attention in the Induction of Hypnosis.
According to Braid, the induction of hypnosis was facilitated either
by :—(1) The concentration of the attention on some external object.
(2) Concentration of the attention on some idea connected with
hypnotism.
Liébeault and Bernheim consider that ordinary and hypnotic sleep
both owe their origin to the fixation of the attention and of the nervous
force upon the idea of sleep. The individual who desires to go to sleep
chooses a quiet place, meditates and keeps still. His nervous force is
concentrated upon a single idea and deserts the nerves of sensation,
emotion and special sense. The conditions which induce the hypnotic
state are identical. The subject is told to concentrate his mind upon
Q 2
nit
226 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
the idea of sleep and, to aid him in doing so, is directed to look fixedly
at some object. From this results bodily repose, the senses become
less acute, more and more isolated from the external world and, finally,
thought is arrested.
A connection undoubtedly exists between the subject's powers of
attention and the facility with which hypnosis can be induced. For
example, idiots, who possess little spontaneous and no voluntary
attention, cannot be hypnotised at all, and others, such as those suffer
ing from mania, hysteria, <fec., whose attention is actively turned into
other channels, are extremely difficult to influence.
In reference to the connection between the attention and the
induction of hypnosis, the following points seem worthy of notice.
1. It is not necessary that the attention should be concentrated on
the idea of sleep. Braid, as we have seen, easily induced hypnosis
when the patient gazed steadily at an external object and concentrated
the attention on the idea of that object. The primary hypnosis also
need not resemble sleep, and the subject may at once pass into the alert
state with the eyes open.
2. Primary hypnosis has sometimes been induced in cases where it
would be difficult to prove that any concentration of attention had
existed, either upon some external object or upon the idea of sleep.
In these cases, the subject, after having given his consent to the
experiment, has rested quietly and voluntarily reduced his mental
activity. He has, as nearly as possible, emptied his mind of all
thought and produced, not a condition of concentration, but its
opposite,—abstraction.
3. Again, as Gurney points out, the phenomena of natural
somnambulism, which, in respect to the absorption of the mind in
one direction, present the closest analogy to those of hypnotism,
demand no previous concentration of attention at all.
4. Once hypnosis has been induced, the condition can be evoked at
any time, and practically instantaneously, in response to a previously
arranged signal. Here, though the attention of the subject has
been momentarily directed to the signal, prolonged concentration of
attention has been absent.
Does Concentration of Attention cause Hypnosis ?
Gurney says :—" But, even if we confine ourselves to cases where
attention is actually present during the production of the state, what
ground is there for describing it as the cause of that state ? . . .
The general effects of a one-sided strain of mind or body are pretty well
known and ' tonic cramp of the attention ' may be a very satisfactory
description of the one-sided absorption in a particular direction which
What is Hypnotism? 227
characterises many isolated stages of hypnotic trance. But what
tendency should the cramp of an attention, which is directed to a
button held in the hand, have to produce, or to facilitate, a fresh
cramp or series of cramps, when the attention is diverted to quite fresh
objects ? . . . I have again and again found the complete change
to a new genus of ideas to be absolutely effortless and instantaneous—■
found, that is, that the attention, which has been as usual fixed
during the process of hypnotisation, became quite abnormally mobile
afterwards. . . . If I am told that a particular mental attitude,—
that of fixed or one-sided attention—is the cause of certain mental
phenomena which are new to me, I am surely justified in demanding
that the order of events shall present some perceptible coherence—shall
at least not run directly counter to what my general experience would
have led me to expect." (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II., pp. 271-3.)
Again, taking the case where the attention was concentrated
during the production of the state, how does this explain the fact
that when the patient is left to himself in hypnosis, his condition is
usually one of abstraction 1 Here, as a supposed result of a previous
concentration of attention, we have the spontaneous development of
its opposite.
Preliminary fixation of attention cannot be accepted as an explana
tion of subsequent mobility. All that we can concede so far is :—(1)
That fixation of the attention frequently precedes and usually
facilitates the induction of hypnosis. (2) That the attention in
hypnosis can easily be rendered excessively mobile.
Further Conditions favourable for the Induction of Hypnotic
Phenomena.
Rapport and attention.
The following is Liebeault's view : —"It is observed," he says,
" that nearly all artificial somnainbules are in relation by their senses
with those who put them to sleep, but only with them. The subject
hears everything the operator says to him, but hears him only, provided
the sleep is sufficiently deep. He only hears the operator when he is
addressed directly by him and not when a third person is spoken to.
This rapport extends to the other senses." According to Liebeault,
the subject remains en rapport with the hypnotiser because he goes to
sleep in thinking of him, and this does not differ from what sometimes
happens in ordinary sleep. A mother who goes to sleep close to the
cradle of her child, does not cease to watch over him during her sleep,
but while she hears his slightest cry, is insensible to other louder
sounds. The concentration of the subject's attention upon the
operator, and his mental retention of the idea of the one who put him
to sleep is the cause of rapport.
228 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
In rapport Bernheim finds his solitary point of difference between
normal and hypnotic sleep. He says, " In ordinary sleep, as soon as
consciousness is lost, the subject is only in relationship with himself ;
in induced sleep his mind retains the memory of the person who has
put him to sleep ; hence the hypnotiser's power of playing upon his
imagination, of suggesting dreams, and of directing the acts which are
no longer controlled by the weakened or absent will."
The following is Braid's view of the condition of the attention in
hypnosis : —
The principal difference between hypnotic and normal sleep is to be
found in the mental condition. "When falling into ordinary sleep, the
mind passes from one idea to another indifferently, and the subject is
unable to fix his attention on any regular train of thought, or to
perform any act requiring much voluntary effort. As the result of
this, audible suggestions and sensory impressions received by the
sleeper, if not intense enough to entirely awaken him, seldom do more
than arouse dreams, in which ideas pass through his mind without
exciting definite physical acts. On the other hand, the concentration
of attention, which is the result of the means employed for inducing
hypnosis, is continued into the state itself, and verbal suggestions or
sensory impressions excite definite trains of thought or physical
movements, instead of dreams.
Certain points of difference and resemblance are to be noticed
between these views.
According to Braid, the condition of the attention in hypnosis
favoured response to external suggestion, but not to suggestion
conveyed by any particular person, such as the hypnotiser. It was
possible by suggestion to create an artificial state in which the subject
was apparently only en rapport with the operator, but this condition
was only an apparent, not a real one. The subjects really heard the
suggestions of others, though special artifices might be necessary in
order to make them respond to them. Braid relates a case in which he
made a somnambule respond to his indirect suggestions, conveyed in
the form of confident predictions of what was going to happen, though
the subject was asleep when he entered the room and apparently was
only en rapport with the original operator. Carpenter drew attention
to the fact that rapport was unknown to Mesmer and his immediate
disciples and was not discovered until long after the practice of
mesmerism had come into vogue. The phenomena of rapport only
acquired constancy and fixity in proportion as its laws were
announced and received. Mesmerists, ignorant of it, produced a
great variety of remarkable phenomena without discovering rapport,
until the idea had been put into their minds and thence transferred
to their subjects.
What is Hypnotism ? 229
Bernheim and Liébeault believe that a real rapport exists between
the subject and the operator and that this follows as a natural con
sequence from the methods employed in inducing hypnosis. According
to Bernheim, not only does it exist, but the operator's power of evoking
hypnotic phenomena depends on it. While Bernheim and Liebeault
agree on this point, they differ on another. Thus, Bernheim finds in
rapport the sole difference between hypnotic and ordinary sleep, while
Liebeault, on the contrary, tries by means of it to establish an analogy
between them.
My own observations in reference to rapport have led me to
conclusions similar to those of Braid, viz. :—1. That rapport does not
appear unless it has been directly or indirectly suggested. 2. That the
condition is always an apparent and never a real one. It could always
be experimentally proved that the subjects actually had been cognisant
of what had been said and done by others who had not been placed en
rapport with them. In those who did not know what was expected of
them, and to whom neither direct nor indirect suggestions of rapport
were made, this condition did not appear. On the contrary, they
heard and obeyed any one who might address them.
Moll, in Der Rapport in der Hypnose, published in 1892, comes
practically to the same conclusion as Braid in regard to rapport, viz. : —
that it is caused by direct or indirect suggestions of the operator, or by
self-suggestions which result from the subject's conception of the nature
of the hypnotic state.
It is true, as Liebeault has pointed out, that rapport frequently
exists between the sleeping mother and her child and that she will hear
its slightest cry and yet be unconscious of louder sounds. This, how
ever, has no analogy in the hypnotic state. The untrained somnambule
responds with equal readiness to the voice of any one and, if he has
been taught to respond only to one voice, he still hears others. Again,
the difference between hypnotic and normal sleep is not, as Bernheim
says, that rapport exists only in the former. On the contrary, we
might with justice establish a distinction between hypnotic and normal
sleep on the ground that rapport is absent from the former and is a
frequently occurring phenomenon in the latter.
Alterations in Volition. The so-called Automatism.
Suggested Crimes.
According to Braid's conception of hypnosis, the state was
characterised by mental and physical phenomena which were not to
be found in other conditions. The hypnotised subject had acquired
new and varied powers, but had not at the same time lost his volition
or moral sense. He asserted that he had proved that no one could be
affected by hypnotism, at any stage of the process, unless by voluntary
230 Dr. J. Milne Bramivell.
compliance. The subjects were docile and obliging ; but, despite this,
they refused all criminal suggestions and even developed a higher
sense of propriety than characterised their normal condition.
Totally different views are held by Bernheim and certain other
members of the Nancy School. They believe that the subject's
volition is weakened or destroyed, and consider this condition to be
one of automatism. To both these points I wish to draw your
attention.
The hypnotic state is described as one of cerebral automatism, and,
according to Bernheim, its phenomena find their analogy in various
automatic movements of normal life, such as walking. Suggested crimes,
which, I think, differ essentially from acts like these, are described as
illustrating automatism in its highest form. It is with the latter
that I desire to deal at present. Let us take a typical case. It is
suggested to a high-principled girl in the somnambulic state that
she shall take a piece of sugar from the basin and put it into her
mother's tea-cup, after having been informed that this is really a
lump of arsenic certain to cause death. Apart from the question
whether, in carrying out this suggestion, she has committed what
she believes to be a real crime, or knows that she has merely carried
out an experiment, let us attempt to understand the supposed
mental condition with regard to consciousness and volition, and then
compare it with the usual scientific conception of automatism. It
is, I think, generally conceded by the Nancy School that hypnotic
acts are conscious ones, and that, if amnesia follows on waking,
the lost memory can be restored in subsequent hypnoses. Indeed,
Professor Bernheim, in discussing the Salpetriere experiments, insists
upon the fact that the hypnotised subject is conscious in all stages.
The alleged criminal act was, then, a conscious act. Again, we are told
that somnambules, before accepting criminal suggestions, frequently
struggle against them. This would indicate that, in some instances at
all events, they are carried out in opposition to volition as it exists in
hypnosis. Further, it must be conceded that a criminal act would not
be performed voluntarily by a virtuous person in the normal state. The
suggested act, then, is one which would have been opposed by volition
in the waking state. Now, let us turn to automatism, as defined by
Professor Waller, the well-known physiologist. " The word," he says,
" has received two diametrically opposed meanings, viz. (1) self-moving,
self-arising, spontaneous, (2) automaton-like, that is to say, like a
mechanism that appears to be self-moving, but that we know to be
moved by secret springs and hidden keys." The second sense is the
one in which he employs it, and is also, I think, the one now generally
adopted by science. As the supposed essential characteristic of the
suggested crime is the fact that it arose, not spontaneously, but in
What is Hypnotism ? 231
response to the desires of the operator, it is obvious that if it be automatic
at all, it must accord with the second conception of automatism. Now,
let us follow Dr. Waller in his further definition of the second condition
and then see how this agrees with the so-called hypnotic automatism.
According to him, the automatic action is essentially a reflex action, and
differs from it only in that it is, as a rule, the habitual or serial effect
of habitual or serial stimuli. An automatic act is the repeated or
rhythmic motor response to a repeated or continuous excitation.
Usually it is carried on unconsciously. Automatic actions are
distinguishable into two sub-groups : (1) Primary or inherited, of
which the act of sucking is an example. (2) Secondary or acquired,
of which walking is an example. In this discussion I think we may
disregard primary or inherited automatic acts. Obviously, to kill one's
mother cannot be regarded as an inherited automatism, and, if
such a crime be automatic at all, it must fall under the group of
secondary ones. Of this form of automatic act, the winding of
one's watch may be taken as a typical example. This is first performed
consciously and voluntarily. After a time consciousness ceases to
participate in the action. On attempting to wind your watch, many of
you must have occasionally found that you had already done so,
although quite incapable of recalling it. Now, this automatic act is
simply a voluntary one performed inattentively or unconsciously ; one
that has previously been frequently performed and possesses well-worn
nerve channels. It has commenced as a conscious, voluntary one. It
has become unconscious by repetition, but still remains voluntary in the
sense that it is an act which the consciousness would approve of did it
happen to participate in it. Let us consider the so-called automatic
crime of the hypnotised subject and see how it agrees with this concep
tion of automatism. (1) The crime has not been an habitual one. In
the present instance the very nature of the act renders this impossible.
Obviously the subject could not have habitually killed her mother.
The alleged automatic act must, then, in this instance, have been
performed for the first time. Now the essential character of the
secondary or acquired automatic act is that it has previously been
frequently, consciously and voluntarily performed and possesses in con
sequence well-worn nerve tracts, which offer no obstacle to its fulfilment.
(2) The hypnotic act is performed consciously, and the attention,
instead of being directed into other channels, as in genuine automatism,
is supposed to be intensely concentrated on the operator or on the
signal given by him, and this latter may be so faint that the subject is
only enabled to recognise it by means of the hypera;sthesia of his special
senses. (3) The hypnotic crime is sometimes supposed to be performed
in opposition to volition as it exists in hypnosis, and is always supposed
to be in opposition to the normal volition. The genuine automatic
232 Dr. J. Milne Bramwett.
act, on the other hand, has only been enabled to become automatic
owing to the fact that it has previously been frequently performed as a
voluntary act ; and now, when performed unconsciously, it still remains
such an act as the volition, as a general rule, would approve of. The
so-called automatic crime of the hypnotised subject not only differs,
then, from the general scientific conception of automatism, but is its
exact opposite in every detail.
While holding, and holding strongly, that the hypnotic crimes
which we are discussing cannot in any sense be termed automatic, I
do not deny that the hypnotic subject can be trained to perform
automatic acts. If I suggest some simple movement to a subject,
which his volition does not disapprove of, doubtless after a time it may
be performed automatically, i.e., after having been frequently, volun
tarily, and consciously performed, it may at length be executed
unconsciously as a genuine automatic act in response to the habitual
stimulus which has excited it.
Putting aside all question of the correct conception of the word
automatism, or, perhaps better still, characterising the described
condition as one of obedience, I now desire to see how far the
phenomenon so-called can be taken as the essential characteristic of the
hypnotic state. The writings of the Nancy School indicate a belief
that the hypnotic state is essentially characterised by the obedience
of the subject to the operator. Some years ago most stress was laid
upon complete obedience, and Liébeault said, " We may postulate, as
a first principle, that a subject during the state of magnetic sleep, is
at the mercy of the hypnotiser." Now, possibly as the result of the
influence of the late Professor Delboeuf, a greater power of resistance
is conceded. In a recent article Dr. Liébeault admits that he has only
encountered four to five per cent, of hypnotised subjects to whom one
could, with absolute certainty, suggest crime. This admission is an
important one, but despite it, the so-called automatism is still regarded
as the essential characteristic of the hypnotic state. If only four or
five out of a hundred subjects evince the so-called automatism, surely
one is not justified in describing this as the essential characteristic of
the whole group. If five out of a hundred unhypnotised individuals
presented certain phenomena which were absent in the remainder, one
would surely not choose these rarely occurring phenomena as the
descriptive characteristics of the class, and those upon which the
belief in other and more frequently observed phenomena should
depend. Yet, strange as it may seem, this is the position assumed by
Durand le Gros, who assured Delboeuf that if he succeeded in proving
that the suggested crimes of the Nancy school were recognised by the
subject as experimental ones, he would destroy hypnotism entirely.
The existence, then, of many undisputed phenomena, which are common
What is Hypnotism ? 233
to all hypnotic subjects, is to depend upon the acceptance of others
which it is alleged occur in four or five per cent, alone out of the same
number.
Putting aside in its turn the question of the average number of
subjects in whom it is alleged crime can be successfully suggested, I
desire first to refer to some of my own experiments in this direction
and afterwards to consider them in conjunction with the so-called
suggested crimes of Bernheim and others, in order to gain, or at all
events to strive after, a clearer conception of the mental states
involved.
When I commenced hypnotic work some seven years ago, I, like
Delboeuf, believed that the hypnotic subject was entirely at the mercy
of the operator. 1 was soon aroused from this dream, however, not by
the result of experiments made to test the condition, but from the
constantly recurring facts which spontaneously arose in opposition to my
preconceived theories. In the paper printed above, under the heading
" So-called hypnotic automatism," I cited a number of cases in which
suggestions had been refused by hypnotic subjects. I also mentioned
two subjects who had rejected certain suggestions and accepted others.
Miss F., for example, recited a poem, but would not help herself to a
glass of water from my sideboard, while Mr. G. would play one part,
but not others, and committed an imaginary crime.
These subjects accepted suggestions which were apparently in
opposition to their normal character. For instance, Miss F., who was
extremely nervous and shy about singing or reading aloud, not only
before strangers, but also before certain members of her own family,
recited a poem in the waking state which I had read to her during
hypnosis. Her mother told me that, under ordinary circumstances,
she would rather have died than have done so. While Mr. G., who
refused the r61es of dissenting minister and hawker, accepted that of
showman. He also, without the least hesitation, promptly put a piece
of sugar in a friend's tea-cup, after having been assured it was arsenic.
When asked why he had poisoned his friend, he replied, laughing, " Oh,
that's all right, he has lived long enough ! " I made no attempt to
ascertain G.'s mental condition in reference to the supposed crime, but
I think one can, without much difficulty, imagine it. G. was a
respectable tradesman and a somewhat devout Dissenter, and it is not
unnatural to suppose he refused the part of fish-hawker as this was
not in keeping with his social position, and that of minister as it
offended his religious susceptibilities, and accepted that of showman
because it contained nothing objectionable to him. Would it be
reasonable to suppose that he should at the same time be capable of
weighing fine distinctions between the suggested alterations in person
ality and unable to understand the experimental nature of the crime ?
234 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
He, by the way, affords the only instance in which an imaginary crime
has been carried out by one of my own patients. All others, without
exception, have absolutely refused such suggestions.
Why should Miss F. have recited the poem and refused to take a
glass of water from my sideboard 1 The answer to the first question is
obvious. She was extremely anxious to get rid of the nervous embar
rassment from which she suffered and thus the suggestion contained
nothing opposed to her volition. She herself explained the second ;
after leaving my house, her mother rehypnotised her and asked why she
had refused my suggestion, whereupon she replied, " I do not know Dr.
Bramwell well enough to help myself unasked to a glass of water."
In the cases above recorded, although a certain amount of evidence
was obtained from the patients themselves in reference to their mental
condition, no systematic attempt was made to investigate this. I am
well aware that this admission is a startling one. I can only say in
self-excuse that this all-important point has apparently been equally
neglected by others. I have recently attempted to repair my mistake,
and with interesting results. Some of these have been given in my former
paper, and are to be found in the description of the mental condition
of somnambules as revealed by the answers obtained to questions asked
during hypnosis. One of them, the subject of the time experiments,
said she would not put a piece of sugar in any one's tea if she were told
it was arsenic. At a later date, when Mr. Myers was present, she
gave a different answer. She said, " I would not take a watch, even if
I knew the suggestion was made as an experiment, because this would
be pretending to commit a crime. I would, however, put a piece of
sugar in a friend's tea-cup, if I were sure it was sugar, even though
some one said it was arsenic, because then I should not be the one who
was pretending to commit a crime." So subtle a distinction would not,
I think, have occurred to the subject in the waking condition.
In most of the cases referred to, the patients refused to carry out
suggestions in hypnosis which they would have rejected in the waking
state. Sometimes, however, they refused in hypnosis things they would
readily have done, or submitted to, when awake. For example, Dr.
Allden, when Resident Physician at the Brompton Hospital, hypnotised
a girl suffering from chronic pulmonary disease. She was naturally
docile and obedient and rapidly became a good somnambule. On one
occasion, after hypnotising her, the nurse reminded him that it was his
day for examining the patient's chest, but, to his astonishment, she
refused to allow it to be bared. She had previously been examined
dozens of times by himself and others and had never made the slightest
objection. He insisted upon her submitting, but was unable to over
come her resistance. He asked her why she objected now, when she
What is Hypnotism ? 235
had never done so previously. She replied, " You never tried before
to examine my chest when I was asleep." On awaking, she remembered
nothing of what had occurred and he said nothing to her about it.
Afterwards the nurse told her, whereupon she was greatly distressed
and wondered how she could possibly have been so rude to the doctor.
These, and many similar facts, have forced me to abandon all belief
in so-called automatism or helpless obedience ; still, I must refer to
some of the arguments in support of it, before attempting to analyse
further the mental condition in hypnosis.
(1) When subjects successfully resist suggestion, it is usual to
explain this by assuming that they have not been so deeply hypnotised
as those in whom no resistance has manifested itself. I cannot admit
the correctness of this in my cases. During the last seven years, I
have had frequent opportunities of examining hypnotic subjects, at
home and abroad, and have nowhere observed more profound somnam-
bules than amongst my own patients, rarely, in fact, seeing cases to
equal them. All to whom I have referred not only exhibited the
phenomena of profoundest somnambulism, but nearly all had been
subjects of painless operations in the hypnotic state.
(2) The personality of the operator, and his method of training his
subjects, is supposed to play an important part in the acceptance or
rejection of suggestions. Granting that this be true, it does not
explain the resistance which I encountered. I commenced by believing
that the subjects were entirely at my mercy and did my best to develop
their supposed obedience.
(3) The existence of one class of phenomena is considered as
necessarily implying the existence of another and totally differing class.
Durand le Gros asks :—"Is it possible that suggestion should have the
power of producing extraordinary physical changes and yet be without
this particular effect upon the moral state?" The facts I have already
cited answer this question in the affirmative. Putting these aside, the
assumption that the physical phenomena necessarily imply certain
moral ones is unreasonable. What inevitable connection exists, for
example, between an alteration in the pulse rate and the murder of
one's mother 1 Should I not be equally justified logically in assuming
that the subject in the normal state who, in response to suggestion,
would play the violin or paint a picture would be equally willing to rob
a church 1
(4) Evidence in favour of obedience afforded by cases in which the
subjects are alleged to have accepted criminal and analogous sugges
tions. These are important. The fact that the phenomenon of helpless
obedience was invariably absent in my patients does not justify me in
concluding that it did not sometimes occur in those of others. These
cases of so-called automatism fall into two classes : (a) where an
236 Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
imaginary crime has been suggested ; (b) where a real act has been
performed, which it is assumed the patient would not have submitted
to in the normal state.
(a) First, as regards imaginary crime ; here, as Professor Delboeuf
has pointed out, it is supposed that the patient is passing through
a mental state similar to that of the operator. Assumption without
experimental proof is a frail and unsatisfactory basis on which to
erect a theory. Let us first examine the facts. A somnambule
puts a piece of sugar into her mother's teacup, while her medical
man makes various absurd and untruthful assertions as to its
composition. Bernheim and Liébeault assert that the subject accepted
these absurd statements as true because, being hypnotised, she was
unable to distinguish between truth and falsehood, while Delboeuf claims
that she had sufficient sense left to know exactly what she was doing.
To neither does it seem to have occurred to ask the subject during
hypnosis what she thought about the matter herself. If they had
done so, she would promptly have solved the difficulty and told them
that while they were gravely discussing probabilities, she was quietly
laughing in her sleeve at the grotesque absurdity of the whole per
formance. It may be noticed in passing that, while Bernheim considers
the Salpetriere subjects so abnormally acute that they can catch the
slightest indication of the thoughts of the operator and so destroy the
supposed value of the phenomena alleged to be induced by metals,
magnets, drugs in sealed tubes, &c., he, on the other hand, supposes
the Nancy subjects to be so abnormally devoid of all intelligence as
to be unable to understand when a palpable farce is played before them.
(6) Where a real act has been performed, which it is assumed the
patient would not have submitted to in the normal state. Of this
Bernheim cites an example. He states that he uncovered a young
woman, presumably a hospital patient, in the presence of his assistants
and that she appeared perfectly calm and indifferent. Bernheim also
quotes a case in which he entirely failed in persuading another young
woman, also a good somnambule, to allow him to uncover her, or to
commit an imaginary crime, despite the fact that he varied the
suggestion in every conceivable way. Let us take the case of supposed
helpless obedience. The mere fact that a woman permitted herself to
be uncovered does not necessarily imply that she was incapable of
resisting. Before this can be used as an argument in favour of the
helpless obedience of the hypnotised subject, one is justified in demand
ing that it should be clearly proved that, under similar circumstances,
the patient would have objected to being uncovered in the waking
condition. Medical men are frequently obliged to uncover their female
patients for examination and rarely encounter resistance. The
first time that I visited Professor Bernheim's wards I was struck by
What is Hypnotism ? 237
the fact that, in order to show some hysterical muscular movements in
the abdomen of a non-hypnotised subject, he threw off the bedclothes,
drew the patient's nightgown up to her neck and left her in that
condition while we examined other cases. Though such treatment is
opposed to the practice of English hospitals, I do not propose to
criticise it. I only desire to draw attention to the fact that a patient
was stripped in the waking state—from my point of view unnecessarily
so—and that she and every one else apparently regarded this as devoid
of importance. The hypnotised subject did not object to be stripped.
Why should she? She must have been accustomed to see other patients
examined, and there is no special reason given why she should have
objected to the ordinary routine. Cases such as these appear to me
absolutely valueless, while the reasons for the patient's supposed
obedience remain so easily accounted for in other ways. To render
such a case worthy of serious consideration it would be absolutely
necessary to eliminate many important factors such as :—1. The fact
that the subject was ill. 2. That she was in a hospital where patients
were stripped as part of the ordinary routine. 3. That the examination
was made by a medical man.
Strangely enough, the most marked case of resistance to suggestion
that I have observed was shown by Liébeault's celebrated somnam-
bule, Camille. To this I have already referred, but I wish to emphasise
the fact that the classic hypnotic automaton, the one who was supposed
to carry out a suggestion with the fatality of a falling stone, refused
one, not on moral grounds, but apparently from pure caprice.
The difference between the hypnotised and the normal subject, as
it appears to me from a long series of observed facts, is not so much in
conduct as in increased mental and physical powers. Any changes
in the moral sense, I have noticed, have invariably been for the
better, the hypnotised subject evincing superior refinement. As
regards obedience to suggestion, there is apparently little to choose
between the two. A hypnotised subject, who has acquired the power
of manifesting various physical and mental phenomena, will do so in
response to suggestion, for much the same reasons as one in the normal
condition. In the normal state we are usually pleased to show off our
various gifts and attainments, more especially if we think they are
superior to those of others, and in this respect the hypnotised subject
does not differ from the normal. Both will refuse what is disagreeable ;
in both this refusal may be modified or overcome by appeals to the
reason, or to the usual motives which influence conduct. When the act
demanded is contrary to the moral sense, it is usually refused by the
normal subject, and invariably by the hypnotised one. I have never
observed any decrease of intelligence in hypnosis. In the alert state it
is often conspicuously increased, while in the lethargic it is only
238 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
apparently, not really, suspended. Forel's warders, who could sleep
by the bedside of suicidal maniacs and wake immediately at a given
signal, or who could inhibit their own hearing of the purposeless noises
of the insane and acutely hear everything which demanded their
attention, did not in so doing show any real loss of intelligence. The
power of concentration in the normal state, with its accompanying
inhibition of undesirable impressions, is a well-known and somewhat
analogous condition, but one which is not usually regarded as indicative
of mental degeneration.
When one turns to the later works of Braid and sees how clearly
he experimentally proved that the hypnotised subject not only had the
power of choosing between suggestions, but invariably refused those
repugnant to his moral nature, one cannot help feeling surprised at the
revival of theories, in reference to so-called automatism or obedience,
identical with the views of the mesmerists. More especially so when
one considers that Bernheim, who holds these views, also boldly asserts
that there is nothing in hypnotism but the name, that it does not
create a new condition and that hypnotic acts are only exaggerated
normal ones. According to Bernheim, however, the moral state in
hypnosis differs widely from the normal, and this is in obvious
contradiction to his own conception of hypnotism. One can under
stand, for example, how a prolonged muscular rigidity may be a
hypnotic exaggeration of a somewhat shorter normal one, but it
is difficult to comprehend how the murder of one's mother when
hypnotised can be an exaggeration of the refusal to hurt a fly
when awake. Bernheim's view of the moral state does not follow
logically from the supposed resemblance between the hypnotic and
normal condition, but apparently has its origin in an erroneous estimate
of the nature and power of suggestion. On the one hand, he tells us
that the hypnotic and normal conditions are practically identical, their
only distinction being a slight difference in suggestibility. On the other
hand, we are informed that a virtuous individual will commit crime in
response to hypnotic suggestion. If this were correct, we should be
justified in describing the origin of hypnotic crimes thus :—
(a) A virtuous girl in the normal state has a natural tendency to
accept the suggestion that she should murder her mother.
(6) In hypnosis suggestibility is slightly increased and so, when it is
suggested to her to murder her mother, she does so.
Suggested Crimes—Summary.
1. I have never seen a suggestion accepted in hypnosis which would
have been refused in the normal state.
2. I have observed that suggestions could be resisted as easily in
the lethargic as in the alert stage.
What is Hypnotism ? 239
3. I have frequently noticed increased refinement in hypnosis ;
subjects have refused suggestions which they would have accepted in
the normal condition.
4. I saw Camille refuse a suggestion from mere caprice.
5. Examination of the mental condition in hypnosis revealed the
fact that it was unimpaired.
6. The arguments of Bernheim cannot be considered conclusive, as
they are founded solely on two classes of facts, (as) Where a simple
and harmless act has been assumed to be thought criminal by the
subject, because the operator has stated it to be so. (5) Where the
subject has permitted something in hypnosis, which he would probably
have submitted to in the normal state.
The Influence of the Operator in inducing the so-called Automatism.
In the estimation of the part played by the operator, Braid differs
from certain members of the Nancy School. According to the former,
the operator merely acts as an engineer who directs the forces in the
subject's own body, but the phenomena of hypnosis can also be evoked
by ideas previously existing in the subject's mind. The latter regard
the operator's role as a much more important one ; not only are his
suggestions a mighty force in themselves, but their power is increased
by constant undermining of the volition.
Moll says, the suggested idea cannot be supplanted by a voluntary
one, because, owing to alterations in the attention which result from
the methods of the operator, the subject is unable to control the ideas
conveyed to him, or to put forward his own. External ideas dominate
his consciousness. He thus explains negative hallucinations :—the
conviction of the non-existence of an object arises from the subject's
weakened will and dependence on the operator. The fact that many
motor suggestions have already been made, which the subject has been
unable to resist, renders further suggestions easy.
Forel's explanation is somewhat similar. For the successful mani
festation of hypnotic phenomena, he considers it essential that the
subject should be under the dominion of the operator and have lost his
own power of concentration and attention. He regards the condition
as a battle between operator and subject, in which the former, after
capturing outpost after outpost, at last reigns supreme in the central
citadel itself. " The mind of a man, A, imposes itself," he says, " upon
the mind of another man, B, takes possession of it by entering through
some crevice in its armour, and finishes by reigning there more or less
as master and by employing the brain of B as its docile instrument."
According to Bernheim, the natural tendency that exists in every
one to accept suggestions is gradually and skilfully developed by the
operator.
R
240 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
In opposition to the views of Bernheim, &c, I would draw your
attention to two classes of cases.
(1) Where the operator has deliberately tried to minimise his own
importance in reference to the induction of hypnotic phenomena.
Although I soon ceased to believe that the subject's volition was
dominated by that of the operator, I still found, as the result of
sensational writings on the question, that a considerable number of my
patients objected to being hypnotised, on the ground that it would
interfere with their volition. To obviate this difficulty, I changed my
method of inducing and managing the hypnotic state. I commenced
by informing every new patient that I did not believe it possible for
the operator to dominate the volition of the subject, and that, even if
such a thing were possible, it could certainly be prevented by sugges
tion. I explained to my patients that nothing would be suggested
without their consent having been previously obtained in the normal
state. Under these circumstances, if the suggestions were successful,
this would not imply any interference with volition, seeing that their
consent had already been obtained. I pointed out that the fulfilment
of a hypnotic suggestion frequently demonstrated an increased, not
diminished, power of volition. For example, a patient who desired to
resist a morbid impulse, but was unable to do so by the exercise of his
normal volition, might gain this power by hypnotic suggestion. Thus,
the suggestion did not suspend the volition of the subject, but removed
the obstacle which prevented the wish being carried into action.
Further, as resistance was manifested despite suggested obedience, it
was reasonable to expect that this might be enormously increased by
training. I suggested, therefore, to all patients during hypnosis that
they should invariably possess this power of resistance, and also that
neither I nor any one else should ever be able to reinduce hypnosis
without their express consent. This change of method did not affect
the results. Notwithstanding the fact that the patients were con
vinced, and justly so, that they possessed complete control of the whole
condition, hypnosis was evoked as easily as formerly, and as wide a
range of phenomena was induced.
(2) Where an attempt has been made to teach the subject to evoke
hypnosis and its phenomena without the intervention of the operator.
Some six years ago I commenced to instruct patients to hypnotise
themselves. This was done by suggesting in hypnosis that they should
be able to reinduce the state at a given signal, as for example, by
counting "One, two, three." These subjects could afterwards evoke the
condition at will. I also found that the use of suggestion during
hypnosis was not necessary for the induction of its phenomena. On the
contrary, the suggestions could be made equally well beforehand in the
waking state. The subject was able to suggest to himself when
What is Hypnotism ? 241
hypnosis should appear and terminate, and also the phenomena which
he wished to obtain during and after it. This training was at first a
limited one ; the patients, for example, were instructed how to get
sleep at night, or relief from pain. They did not, however, always
confine themselves to my suggestions, but originated others, and
widely varying ones, regarding their health, comfort, or work. Some,
trained in this way six years ago, still retain the power of hypnotising
themselves.
In such cases it would be difficult, I think, to explain hypnotic
phenomena as the result of arrested or weakened volition, and of outside
interference by the operator. It might be objected, perhaps, that the
influence of the operator had not been entirely eliminated, on the
ground that he had been associated with the induction of the primary
hypnosis. The conditions, however, which are more or less frequently
associated with the origin of a particular state are by no means always
essential for its after-manifestation. For instance, the art of swimming
is usually taught either by means of a life-belt, or by attaching the
pupil to a cord which his teacher holds and guides by means of a rod.
These artificial aids, however, are not essential to the art of swimming ;
they are only useful in its acquirement. It would be illogical to
ascribe a champion's power of winning a race to the presence of a life
belt, which he discarded years before. In the same way, it would be
unjustifiable to attribute a subject's power of influencing forces within
his own body by suggestions arising in his own mind, to the influence of
the operator who had formerly instructed him how to evoke and direct
this power.
Monoideism.
Although Braid and Bernheim differ on many points, they are in
complete agreement as to the main factor in the problem. According
to both, the essential condition is one of monoideism. The mind of the
subject is concentrated on a single idea. Only one function is active
at any one time ; and intensely so, because all the attention is given to
it. Other functions are inactive, other sensations unperceived, because
the subject has no attention left to give to them. Bernheim, as we
have seen, stated that, while the attention might be directed from one
point to another, concentration remained. This was regarded as
essential and characteristic ; the existence and explanation of hypnotic
phenomena depended on it. Impressions, which under ordinary
circumstances would reach consciousness, now ceased to do so, not
only because they did not happen to be attended to, but also because
the subject had nothing left wherewith to attend to them. Thus, this
is not only a " concentration of attention " theory, but a " concentration
and limited quantity of attention " theory.
E 2
242 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
In reference to this, Gurney says, " the energy of attention is
not a fixed quantity, bound to be always in operation in one direction
or another ; nor does the human mind, any more truly than Nature,
abhor a vacuum. . . . What do we gain, then, by employing a
general term to describe such special effects 1 When once the chande
lier metaphor is abandoned—when once it is recognised that in a
multitude of cases the quantity of attention turned on in one direction
is in no way connected with the withdrawal from any other—the idea
of a common psychic factor seems out of place and misleading."
(v. Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II., pp. 276 and 277.)
This theoretical objection is in accordance with observed facts.
Doubtless certain hypnotic states exist in which all the attention, so
far as it is called into action, is concentrated upon one idea. In order
to prove, however, that directing the attention upon a fresh point
necessarily withdraws it entirely from another, it must be shown that
the phenomenon which resulted from the first concentration inevitably
ceased when the second one arose. A cutaneous analgesia of the arm
might, with some show of reason, be said to result from attention
directed to the muscles during suggested catalepsy, on the ground that
no attention was left wherewith to attend to painful sensations. But,
while the catalepsy still exists, how—on this theory—can one explain,
for example, a cutaneous tactile hyperesthesia of the same limb, by
means of which the subject can distinguish the points of the compass at
half the normal distance? If the subject is unconscious of painful
sensations because his attention is entirely concentrated on his
muscular condition, this same lack of attention to the skin ought not
only to have prevented abnormal distinctness of tactile impressions, but
also to have inhibited the usual ones. The experiment can be still
further complicated, for, while still permitting the catalepsy to persist,
the cutaneous tactile hyperesthesia can be associated by suggestion with
a cutaneous analgesia over the same area. Now the subject's whole
attention cannot be directed to maintaining a condition of muscular
rigidity, if he has still enough of it left to suffice, not only for the
increased perception of certain tactile sensations, but also for the
selection and inhibition of other painful ones. Further, the opposite of
these phenomena can be simultaneously evoked on the other side of the
body : the patient's muscles be paralysed by suggestion, his tactile
sensibility abolished, and his sensibility to pain increased. The atten
tion is now directed to six different points, and could with equal ease
be simultaneously directed to many others. A psychic blindness, for
example, could be suggested on one side ; a psychic deafness on the
other ; hyperesthesia of the sense of smell and taste on one side, and
diminished or abolished sensibility on the other, etc., etc. But this is
not all, for while the attention is presumably turned in all these
What is Hypnotism ? 243
different directions, the subject may be engaged in the attempted
solution of some intellectual problem. A still further complication is
possible. Let us suppose that a fortnight before, in a previous hypnosis,
a suggestion to record the time at the expiration of 20,213 minutes had
been made ; this will be carried out, despite the existence of the various
muscular and sensorial conditions already referred to, and the fact that
at the moment of its fulfilment, the patient is engaged in some other
mental effort.
This picture of the hypnotic state is neither fanciful, nor dependent
solely on my own personal observation. The fact that numerous and
varied hypnotic phenomena can be simultaneously evoked in the same
subject has been repeatedly observed and recorded by others, and,
strange to say, even by those who attempt to explain hypnosis by the
concentration of the attention upon a single point. It is solely the
importance of these facts with regard to this particular theory, which
has hitherto been so largely overlooked.
Granting that hypnotic phenomena are the result of changes in the
attention, one is forced to conclude that these are the exact reverse of
those stated by Bernheim as explanatory of the hypnotic state. The
simultaneous presence of many phenomena clearly show that hypnosis
cannot be explained by the concentration of the attention on any one
given point. Again, the fact that the multiple phenomena are some
times similar in character to the isolated ones, indicates that the
explanation of hypnotic phenomena by means of the amount of
attention concentrated is also fallacious. If all the attention is
requisite for the production of one phenomenon, and, while it still lasts,
many other hypnotic phenomena are simultaneously induced, whence
do the secondary ones derive that excessive amount of attention which
is said to be necessary for the induction of the primary one 1 The
hypnotic condition differs then from the normal, not because only one
phenomenon can be manifested in it at once, but because it may present
simultaneously many and more varied phenomena than can be evoked
in the normal state at any one time. In one word, hypnosis is a state
of poly-ideism, not of mono-ideism.
The Subliminal Consciousness Theory.
Within recent times another theory has arisen. This, instead of
attempting to explain hypnotism by the arrested action of some of the
brain centres which subserve normal life, would do so through the
arousing of certain powers over which we normally have little or no
control. This theory appears under various names—" Double Con
sciousness," "Das Doppel Ich," etc.—and the principle on which it
depends is largely admitted by science. William James, for example,
244 Br. J. Milne Bramwell.
says, " In certain persons, at least, the total possible consciousness may
be split into parts which co-exist, but mutually ignore each other."
The clearest statement of this view is given by Mr. Myers ; he
suggests that the stream of consciousness in which we habitually live
is not our only one. Possibly our habitual consciousness may be a mere
selection from a multitude of thoughts and sensations,—some at least
equally conscious with those we empirically know. No primacy is
granted by this theory to the ordinary waking self, except that among
potential selves it appears the fittest to meet the needs of common life.
As a rule the waking life is remembered in hypnosis, and the hypnotic
life is forgotten in the waking state,—this destroys any claim of the
primary memory to be the sole memory. The self below the threshold
of ordinary consciousness, Mr. Myers terms the " subliminal conscious
ness," and the empirical self of common experience the "supraliminal."
He holds that to the subliminal consciousness and memory a far wider
range both of physiological and of psychical activity is open than to
the supraliminal. The latter is inevitably limited by the need of
concentration upon recollections useful in the struggle for existence,
while the former includes much that is too rudimentary to be retained
in the supraliminal memory of an organism so advanced as man. The
recollection of processes now performed automatically and needing no
supervision passes out of the supraliminal memory, but may be retained
in the subliminal. The subliminal or hypnotic self can exercise over
the nervous, vasomotor, and circulatory systems a degree of control
unparalleled in waking life.
He suggests that the spectrum of consciousness, as he calls it,
is indefinitely extended at both ends in the subliminal self. Below its
supraliminal physiological limit lie a vast number of complex processes
belonging to the body's nutrition and well-being. These our remote
ancestors may possibly have been able to modify at will, but to us
they seem entirely withdrawn from our sphere of volition. If we wish
to alter them we must do so by drugs and medicaments, whether the
body to be treated is our own or another's.
At the superior or psychical end the subliminal memory includes an
unknown category of impressions which the supraliminal consciousness
is incapable of receiving in any direct fashion, and which it must
cognise, if at all, in the shape of messages from the subliminal
consciousness.
Mr. Myers arranges hypnotic phenomena into three divisions.
1. The great dissociative triumph of hypnotism, namely, the
inhibition of pain under conditions of nerve and tissue with which it
is usually inevitably connected.
Here, psychologically, the whole interest lies in the question
whether pain is suppressed together with sensations of every kind, or
What is Hypnotism? 245
whether other sensations persist, pain alone being inhibited. Our
ancestors, Mr. Myers suggests, had already attained to a rough practical
knowledge of this distinction. They knew that if you stunned a man
by a blow he would not feel the pain for some time. Also, that if you
ran pins into particular parts on a witch's body, she, although perfectly
awake, and conscious of other sensations, would feel no smart.
The second of these discoveries was the more important. By
stunning your enemy, you only proved that vital functions could
continue unimpaired, notwithstanding that the brain's action was so
far disturbed that all consciousness was temporarily abolished. By
pricking the witch in her " marks "—now called hysterical analgesic
zones or patches—you proved that pain was a dissociable accident of
organic injury, that other sensations might persist and only that of pain
be in some way inhibited. The insensitiveness to pain which runs wild
in hysteria is now being directed into useful channels by " hypnotic
suggestion." Some intelligence is involved in a suppression thus
achieved ; for this is obtained, not as with narcotics by a general loss of
consciousness, but by the selection and inhibition, from among all the
percipient's possible sensations, of disagreeable ones alone. This is not
a mere anaesthetisation of some particular group of nerve-endings,—
such as cocaine produces : it involves the removal also of a number of
concomitant feelings of nausea, exhaustion, anxiety, not always directly
dependent on the principal pain, but needing, as it were, to be first
subjectively distinguished as disagreeable before they are picked out
for inhibition. This freedom from pain is obtained without either
deadening or dislocating the general nervous system; with no approach
either to coma or to hysteria. The so-called hypnotic trance is not
always necessary : sometimes the pain can be prevented by post
hypnotic suggestion destined to fulfil itself after the awakening. And
if there be trance, this is often no mere lethargy, but a state fully as
alert and vivid as ordinary waking life.
Mr. Myers argues from this that it is plain that hypnotic analgesia
thus induced is by no means a mere ordinary narcotic— a fresh specimen
of such methods as are already familiar for checking pain by arresting
all conscious cerebration. It is a new departure ; the first successful
attempt at dissociating forms of sensation which throughout the known
history of the human organism have almost invariably been found to
exist together.
2. The associative or synthetic triumphs of hypnotism, namely,
the production and control of organic processes which no effort of the
ordinary man can set going, or in any way influence.
Hypnotic analgesia, Mr. Myers says, may be classed with equal
justice as a dissociative, or as an associative act. The sensations are
severed from the main supraliminal current and thus far the act is
246 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
dissociative. The group itself, however, has to be formed and the more
complex it is, the more this involves some associative act. Inhibition
of all the pain consequent on an operation is in reality a complicated
associative process. It involves (1) the singling out and fitting together
of a great number of sensations which have only the subjective bond of
being disagreeable, and (2) the inhibition of all of them, which thus
leaves the supraliminal consciousness in perfect ease.
In further illustration of the associative powers of hypnotism, Mr.
Myers refers to alterations in the pulse, the secretions, excretions, etc.
He also cites Delboeuf's case of two symmetrical burns on the same
subject, one running the ordinary course of inflammation, the other in
which morbid action was arrested by suggestion.
3. The intellectual or moral achievements of hypnotism.
These, like the others, are based upon physiological changes, but
present problems still more profound. The removal of the craving for
alcohol and morphia, the cure of kleptomania, bad temper, excessive
indolence, etc., are cited as illustrating the moral and psychological
changes which suggestion can effect.
Volition, etc.
According to Mr. Myers, the hypnotic subject is not a maimed or
stunted normal individual, but one who, while he has gained increased
power over his own organism, has not at the same time lost his volition,
or the mental and moral qualities which formerly distinguished him.
He admits that there is some difficulty in explaining hypnotic obedience,
but holds that this will be refused when the act suggested is contrary
to the subject's moral nature. He believes that a complete comprehen
sion of the suggested act exists in the subliminal strata; and that, when
grave need arises, the subliminal self will generally avoid compliance—
not by awakening the organism into ordinary life, but by plunging it
into a hysterical access, or into a trance so deep that the unwelcome
order loses its agitating power. The moral tone of the somnambule is,
in Mr. Myers' opinion, the precise opposite of the drunken condition.
Alcohol, apparently by paralysing first the higher inhibitory centres,
makes men boastful, impure, and quarrelsome. Hypnotisation,
apparently by a tendency to paralyse lower appetitive centres, produces
the contrary effect. The increased refinement and cheerfulness of the
developed somnambule is constantly noticed.
The Possible Source or Origin of Hypnotic Control over Intimate
Organic Processes.
Mr. Myers asks whether we can find anything in our ancestry
which suggests to us these internal powers of modifying circulation,
What is Hypnotism? 247
quickening cell-proliferation, and altering trophic processes in unknown
ways. He admits that the analogies to which we can appeal are
vague and remote, yet he says we can point to the general fact
that in man and the higher animals an increase in the power of
modifying the action of the organism as a whole, has evidently
been purchased by a decrease in the power of modifying its internal
parts or constituent elements. The self-shaping powers of the amoeba,
the self-regenerating powers of the worm or crab, die gradually
away into the comparative fixity of the organism of the higher
mammalia.
It is possible, he thinks, that this fixity is more apparent than
real :—" We may regard the human organism as an aggregation of
primitive, unicellular organisms, which have divided their functions,
and complicated their union, in response to the demands of the
environment, and along such lines of evolution as were possible to the
original germ. It is possible, too, that all these processes—beginning
with the amoeboid movements of the primitive cell—were accompanied
by a capacity of retaining the impress of previous excitations, a
rudimentary memory which at first constituted all the consciousness
which our lowly ancestors possessed. And further—may we not
suggest?—as evolution went on and more complex operations were
developed, while the primitive processes of cell - change became
stereotyped by long heredity, the memory which represented these
earlier changes sank to a low psychical depth ;—became subliminal, and
could no longer be summoned by voluntary effort into the supraliminal
sequence of conscious states. How do we know that any psychical
acquisition is ever wholly lost ? Or even that a memory is the weaker
because it has sunk out of voluntary control 1 It may be possible, by
appropriate artifices, to recall primeval memories, and to set in motion
any physiological process which could at any moment of our ancestral
history have been purposively, however blindly, performed." (v. Pro
ceedings S.P.R., Vol. VII., pp. 345-6.)
Mr. Myers refers to the fact that Professor Delboeuf, although in no
way committed to the conception of a subliminal self, has been led to a
somewhat similar hypothesis.
Delboeuf, in reference particularly to his case of the two symmetrical
burns, says that experiments like those lead us to suppose that the
action of the moral on the physical may be almost, if not quite, equal
to that of the physical on the moral. Thence it follows that the idea
of physical mischief may produce mischief ; and, on the other hand,
that the idea of absence of mischief may bring about, or at least
favour, a cure. How, asks Delboeuf, are we to explain the mechanism
of this inverse action of the moral and the physical 1 We are forced
to admit that the influence of the will is more extended than we used
248 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
to suppose. It may be able to act, not only on the reflexes, but on
the vasomotor system, on the unstriped muscles, on the apparatus of
secretion, etc. If a contrary opinion has till now prevailed, this is
because observation has been exclusively directed to the normal
exercise of the will. In ordinary life, in fact, our attention is mainly
concentrated on the external world, the principal source of our
pleasures and our pains, and our will is devoted to perfecting our
means of attack and defence. The care of the vegetative life has
been handed over by the will to nervous mechanisms which have learnt
to regulate themselves, and which in general fulfil their task to per
fection. Thus, the rapid changes of external phenomena mask the
regularity of internal phenomena, which accomplish themselves habitu
ally without our knowledge. But in the hypnotic state the mind is in
part drawn aside from the life of relation, while at the same time it
preserves its activity and power. It can then, under the impulsion of
the hypnotiser, employ those powers to regulate movements which
have become irregular, or to repair injuries to the organism. In a
word, hypnotism does not depress, but exalts the will, by permitting
it to concentrate itself entirely upon the point where disorder is
threatened.
Can all the effects of hypnotic suggestion be explained, Mr. Myers
asks, by even the most complete revival of ancestral memories 1 Do
not the moral or psychological achievements represent a point beyond
that to which such analogies will carry us 1 " These changes must," he
says, " or course rest on a physiological basis ; but that basis implies a
well-developed, a human brain. The knowledge of cortical centres, which
must somewhere exist to make such changes possible, can scarcely have
been inherited from pre-human ancestors. Nothing, perhaps, in the
whole inquiry is of deeper interest than the possibilities thus dawning
upon us of disentangling from the cerebral labyrinth which represents
a man's tastes and character the special brain processes which stand
for some special temptation—say, those which represent the reaction
of his organism to alcohol. What is the hidden process that to one
patient makes brandy as nauseating as it is to a cat—that in another
patient makes the morphia-craving as impossible as it is to a rabbit 1 "
(v. Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VII., p. 347.)
Hysteria, a Disease of the Subliminal Self.
Mr. Myers does not consider the subliminal self free from dis
turbance and disease, any more than the supraliminal. He points out
that there is a marked analogy between the changes in the nervous
vasomotor and circulatory systems which are to be found in the
hypnotic state, and those which manifest themselves in hysteria. An
important difference exists between them, however ; in the former they
What is Hypnotism ? 249
are under the control of the operator or the subject himself, in the
latter they are the result of irrational self-suggestion in regions beyond
the power of the waking will. Hysterical anaesthesia or analgesia
implies a power of modifying the sensibility to touch or pain which
we cannot imitate under ordinary conditions. He does not regard
hypnotism as a morbid state, but simply as a manifestation of a group
of perfectly normal, but habitually subjacent powers. Self-suggested
troubles are a disease of the hypnotic substratum ; and hysteria falls
under the category of hypnotism, not hypnotism under hysteria.
After criticising adversely the theories of Mesmer, Heidenhain,
Charcot, Bernheim, and others, Myers says :—" It is, therefore, as it
seems to me, in a field almost clear of hypotheses that I suggest my
own ;—my view that a stream of consciousness flows on within us, at a
level beneath the threshold of ordinary waking life, and that this
consciousness embraces unknown powers of which these hypnotic
phenomena give us the first sample." (v. Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VII.,
p. 350.)
This theory presents many interesting points for consideration.
/.—The Hypnotic Powers and the Conditions more immediately
associated with them.
The special point of interest in the cases cited as illustrating the
powers of the hypnotic state is the supposed mental condition of the
subject. The immediate origin of hypnotic phenomena depends,
according to Mr. Myers, upon a voluntary alteration in the arrange
ment of ideas. The introduction of the term voluntary, and the
recognition that all the subject's attention is not requisite for the
production of a solitary hypnotic phenomenon, is one of the most
important distinctions that exists between this theory and some of
those we have already considered.
Regarding Bernheim's theory, I raised the following objections :—
1. The condition cannot be called one of monoideism, because many
phenomena can be evoked at the same time.
2. It cannot be explained by the concentration of the attention
upon a single point, because, again, many phenomena can be evoked
simultaneously.
3. It is not due to arrested or impaired volition, as we have
shown (a) that the subject can resist the suggestions of the operator,
and (b) in cases of self-hypnosis, voluntarily create the phenomena
for himself.
4. It could not be explained by suggestion, as this was merely
the artifice used to excite the phenomena.
250 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
Despite these objections, one must admit that certain phenomena
described by Mr. Myers, and others cited as illustrating the theory of
monoideism, possess one important feature in common, namely, a
change in the arrangement of ideas. If, for example, a hypnotised
subject, supposed to be under the influence of his operator, sees a
hallucinatory cat, and a self-hypnotised subject successfully suggests
one to himself, the phenomenon is practically identical in both
instances. The only difference is in the explanation of its origin.
According to Bennett, the hypnotised subject sees a hallucinatory cat
because the genesis of his ideas is not interfered with, but only their
voluntary synthesis. Thus, the operator is able to suggest the
remembrance of a cat ; but the subject, owing to the involuntary
arrest of certain mental powers, fails to understand that it is only a
remembrance, and believes in its reality. In Mr. Myers' opinion
the subject, instead of having lost the power of voluntary synthesis of
ideas, has acquired an increased power of voluntary association and
dissociation of ideas. The remembrance of the image of a cat has
received hallucinatory vividness, not because he was unable to check
it from lack of voluntary synthesis of ideas, but because he has elected
to allow it to become vivid by voluntarily inhibiting the appearance
of all the ideas which would have interfered with its clearness, while,
at the same time, he has associated with it ideas connected with the
remembrance of formerly seen cats.
Bernheim, as we have already seen, attempted to explain the
phenomena of hypnosis by the involuntary concentration of the
attention on one point. According to Mr. Myers, the mental changes
which take place are voluntary ones, and thus, if the phenomena are
due to the subject's attention, he must have acquired the power not
only of turning it upon one point, but upon several points simultane
ously. The inhibition of sensory impressions in hypnosis presents a
certain analogy to what is found in the normal state. The student at
his books who wishes to carry on his work without disturbance, may
gradually train himself to be unconscious of external sounds. He
teaches his attention to concentrate itself upon the problem before
him, and to disregard more and more the noises which might distract
him. So also, in looking into a microscope with one eye, he may train
himself to keep the other eye open, and at the same time to become
unconscious of the objects within its field of vision. Here, both the
hypnotised and non-hypnotised subject are producing voluntary
changes in their attention. Important points of difference, however,
exist between the two.
1. The student does not disregard auditory or visual impressions
the first time he tries to do so. On the contrary, prolonged training
is often necessary in order to obtain this power ; and frequently he is
What is Hypnotism ? 251
unable to acquire it. In the deeply hypnotised subject, on the other
hand, the power can be developed by a single suggestion and with
almost absolute certainty.
2. In the normal subject the inhibition of the sensory impressions
is associated with concentration of the attention upon something else.
The moment the student closes his books he becomes conscious, for
example, of the organ grinder under his window, whose presence he
was ignorant of a moment before. The instant the attention ceases to
be directed to the object under the microscope, the brain becomes con
scious of the impressions received through the other eye. With the
hypnotised subject the condition of the attention is extremely variable.
You may have absence of painful sensations at the very moment that
you direct the subject's attention to the fact that you are piercing his
flesh deeply with a needle. Again, you may have increased sensory
perceptions of the points of a compass when you have engaged his
attention in the attempted solution of a mental problem. The inhibi
tion of sensory impressions by the normal subject might perhaps be
justly regarded as an acquired automatic act, but it is an automatism
which only acts properly when the attention is voluntarily con
centrated on something else. At first the attention must have been
consciously divided between the problem contained in the book and
the process of inhibiting the sensory impressions. In the hypnotised
subject the inhibitory act, seeing that it was performed without
previous training, cannot be regarded as completely analogous to the
acquired automatic inhibitory act of the normal subject. It can also
be performed without conscious concentration of all the attention in
another direction. We must not conclude, however, that the hypnotic
act is not associated with a concentration of some of the attention,
merely because (a) the subject is attending to something else at the
same time and (6) because he is not conscious of attending to the
particular act itself. It is possible that the hypnotic act may have
been performed by means of a conscious concentration of attention
which existed in some lower hypnotic substratum of the personality.
II.—Moral and Volitional Conditions.
The views of Mr. Myers practically agree with those I have already
expressed in discussing the question of so-called automatism. I have
not, however, seen subjects try to escape objectionable commands in
the manner which he describes ; though some instances of this kind
have been recorded by Professor Beaunis and others. In one of these
cases the patient refused to awake, after a disagreeable post-hypnotic
suggestion had been given. Another, under similar circumstances,
rather than fulfil the suggestion, passed from the alert to the deep
stage of hypnosis.
252 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
III.—Hysteria.
Mr. Myers' theory that hysteria is a disease of the hypnotic sub
stratum is an extremely ingenious one, and is the only reasonable ex
planation of the resemblance between certain hypnotic and hysterical
phenomena with which I am acquainted. As we have seen, those who
believed that hypnosis and hysteria were identical stated that the
hysterical alone could be hypnotised. On the other hand, those with
wider experience have successfully demonstrated that the hysterical
are generally, if not invariably, the most difficult to influence. Of this
fact Mr. Myers' theory possibly affords an explanation. May not the
difficulty of inducing hypnosis in the hysterical—of making one's
suggestions find a resting-place in them—be due to the fact that the
hypnotic substratum of their personality is already occupied by
irrational self-suggestions which the subject's waking will cannot
control 1
IV.— What is the Evidence for the Existence of a Subliminal
Consciousness ?
Many cases of alternating consciousnesses have been observed in
the non-hypnotised subject. As a rule this has been associated with
hysteria or other morbid conditions. Sometimes the primary waking
state has been morbid, the secondary one healthy. Of this class,
Felida X., so ably described by Dr. Azam, is the familiar example.
The work and writings of Edmund Gurney, Dr. A. T. Myers, Mr.
Frederic Myers, Pierre Janet, William James, and many others have
rendered us familiar with the phenomenon of secondary or multiple
consciousness in hypnosis. It can be experimentally demonstrated not
only that the hypnotised subject possesses a secondary consciousness,
which alternates with his primary one, but also that it is possible for
the two to coexist and to manifest different phenomena simultaneously.
For example, an individual may have his attention concentrated upon
the act of reading aloud from a book with which he was previously un
acquainted; and, at the same instant, he may be writing automatically,
—as far as his primary consciousness is concerned,—the result of a
problem which was suggested to him in hypnosis the moment before
that state was terminated. The primary waking consciousness retains
no recollection of the hypnotic suggestion ; does not know that the
secondary consciousness, after the hypnotic state has been terminated,
first solves the problem and then directs the motor acts which record
it ; and is also unconscious of the motor acts themselves.
In Mr. Myers' opinion, the general alternations in memory which
occur in connection with hypnosis, afford the strongest evidence in
favour of a subliminal or secondary consciousness. As a rule, he says,
What is Hypnotism ? 253
the hypnotised subject remembers waking life, but when awake has
usually forgotten the events of the hypnotic trance. This statement
cannot be accepted unquestioned. According to Braid, amnesia
regarding the events of hypnosis only showed itself in 10 per cent, of
those whom he hypnotised, while Schrenck-Notzing's " International
Statistics " give 1 5 per cent. It is to be noted also that this amnesia
rarely occurs the first time hypnosis is induced, but, on the contrary,
frequently shows itself only after the process has been repeated many
times. Under such circumstances it is impossible to be certain that
the condition was not artificially created by training, in the same way
as analgesia, hyperesthesia, and other phenomena of hypnosis. Un
doubtedly the operator frequently suggests amnesia ; but, even when it
is carefully explained that the primary hypnosis is rarely or ever
followed by it, I almost invariably find that the idea is so deeply
rooted in the subject's mind that he suggests it to himself. Again,
this amnesia can be prevented by suggestion. This objection is,
however, of little importance. Your next-door neighbour would still
continue to possess his former characteristics, even if you broke down
the partition between your house and his, and afforded him free
facilities for passing from one to the other.
While we must admit that this general amnesia only occurs in a
small per centage of hypnotised subjects, forgetfulness in reference to
many of the details of hypnotic life is very common, and apparently
affords evidence for the existence not only of one, but of several sub
conscious states. The subject, who on awaking apparently remembers
what has happened in hypnosis, does not really recollect everything
that has occurred. He may remember that the prick of a needle
caused no pain, but may be quite unable to recall the mental
phenomena which—on Mr. Myers' theory—must have been involved in
the selection and inhibition of painful sensations. The memory of
this selective and inhibitory process is lost not only to the primary
consciousness, but apparently to the ordinary hypnotic one also ; for
questioning in hypnosis fails to revive it. Again, the patient who
wrongly calculated in hypnosis when a complicated time-suggestion
would fall due, but successfully carried the suggestion out in the
waking state (although no recollection of the original suggestion, nor
of the erroneous calculation and its subsequent correction, existed
in the normal waking consciousness), was unable to recall in hypnosis
that she had corrected the original erroneous calculation. This
forgetfulness, we see, is not only manifested in reference to acts which
might possibly be regarded as automatic ones inherited from some
ancestral type, but is also shown in regard to others of an entirely
different nature, and which could not possibly have arisen in this way.
Some of these phenomena, then, cannot be regarded as hereditary
254 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
automatic acts of the hypnotic state, nor as analogous to normal
acquired automatic ones, seeing that they had not previously been
frequently performed in the hypnotic condition. The simultaneous
appearance in hypnosis of a greater number of phenomena (regarding
them from their numerical side only) than can be manifested in
waking life, is possibly also to be explained by the existence of several
subconscious states. The normal attention apparently cannot attend
to so many things at once as the hypnotic. Now, as we have seen,
certain of these hypnotic acts, seemingly performed unconsciously,
really demand intelligent attention : not only did they require it in
the past, but, as they are neither inherited nor acquired automatic
acts, they obviously require it now.
Granting that one or more subconscious states exist in the human
personality, and that hypnotic phenomena owe their origin to the fact
that we have by some means or another succeeded in tapping them,
two questions still remain :—
Thus, let it be supposed that I possess a friend called Brown, who
is usually, physically and mentally, an ordinary individual ; from time
to time, however, he manifests an extraordinary increase of physical
power. Again, though still more rarely, he displays a range of
mental powers of which he had formerly given no indication. I ask
for an explanation and am told that Brown, as I know him best, is
indeed Brown, but that his increased physical powers are due to the
fact that when he shows them he is Jones, and his increased mental
ones to the further fact that he is then Robinson. Granting that the
phenomena afford evidence of the existence of three separate per
sonalities, I cannot accept this explanation as a solution of the problem
in its entirety. I want to know, first, how Jones and Robinson
acquired their powers, and secondly, what has been done to or by
Brown which has enabled these powers to be evoked.
1. How did Jones and Robinson gain their Powers 1
Mr. Myers' explanation,—or, at all events, part of it,—is that
these powers are a revival of those formerly possessed by some lower
ancestral type. He frankly admits, however, that the analogies to
which we can appeal are certainly vague and remote, and that to find
them we must leave the higher mammalia, and descend to the crab,
worm or amoeba.
Is it reasonable to suppose that the Hypnotic Powers, regarded as a
Whole, existed in some lower Ancestral Type 1
Granting that a limited analogy exists between lower animal types
and hypnotised subjects as to their power of influencing certain
physical conditions, it would, I think, be impossible to establish an
What is Hypnotism? 255
analogy between the mental and moral powers of the latter, and those
of the savage or lower animal. For example, one of my patients, as
we have seen, suddenly developed arithmetical powers far exceeding
those she possessed in the normal state. She is not likely to have
derived them from some savage ancestor who was unable to count
beyond five, or from some lower animal, presumably ignorant of
arithmetic. Again, the same patient spontaneously solved, in hypnosis, a
difficult problem in dressmaking. The power of correctly designing a
garment in accordance with the passing fashion of the present day can
hardly have been derived from some woad-stained ancestor, or lower
animal form. Further, the increased modesty of the hypnotised subject,
his greater power of controlling or checking morbid passions or
cravings, does not find its counterpart in the savage or ape.
Mr. Myers admits that the argument from analogy is weakest
when we consider the mental and moral powers of hypnosis. But if
it is the essential characteristic of the subliminal state that the
spectrum of consciousness is extended at both ends, surely an ex
planation of both extensions is equally necessary. A theory in itself
imperfect becomes still more so when every fact that is supposed to
establish the extension of one end of the spectrum renders the
extension of the other end still more difficult of explanation.
If we admit that Hypnotic Powers are derived from some Lowly,
Non-human type, is their Easy Recovery probable 1
I have seen cases in which all the phenomena characteristic
of deepest hypnosis could be readily evoked, absolutely without
training, within a couple of minutes of the commencement of the
process employed for the induction of the primary hypnosis. If any
of these were derived from amoeba, worm or crab, the rapidity with
which they were aroused was surely surprising.
Is it likely that the Powers should have been Lost in Development ?
The powers of the hypnotic state are said to have dropped out of
the supraliminal consciousness in the process of evolution, as their
association with it had become unnecessary in the struggle for
existence. It must be noticed, however, that many of them have not
only ceased to be employed automatically or unconsciously, but have
also sometimes apparently disappeared altogether ; and until hypnosis
was induced, no means existed by which the supraliminal consciousness
could evoke them. Now the powers which the hypnotic self possesses
are so numerous, varied, and frequently so essential for the comfort or
well-being of the individual, that one with difficulty concludes that
development is responsible for their loss. Take, for example, the power
of inhibiting pain. Granting that some lower type possessed it, a
s
256 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
fact difficult to prove, when and why has this important power been
dropped? In this hyper-civilised age, we appear to have abandoned
the powers of the subliminal self just at the very moment when
we most require them. Complaints about street-noises and the
manners of children show that in many instances, at all events, the
supraliminal self is sadly embarrassed by the fact that it cannot
perform that feat, so easy to the subliminal one, of shutting out
undesired sensations of sound ; and in consequence, can neither work
by day nor sleep by night.
Can the process which has deprived the supraliminal self of so
much that is advantageous be justly described as an evolution from a
lower to a higher type ? Should it not rather be considered as a sort
of Rake's Progress, where the hero of the story has gradually stripped
himself of all the treasured possessions of his forefathers, and has
finished by selling even the ancestral portraits from off his walls 1 '
2. What is the Connection between Hypnotic Methods and the
Production of Hypnotic Phenomena 1
To this I think no reasonable answer has been given. Personally,
I can see no logical connection between the acts of fixed gazing, or
of concentration of attention, or suggested ideas of drowsy states, and
the wide and varied phenomena of hypnosis. Hypnotic phenomena do
not appear spontaneously, and some of the methods described must
have been employed in order to induce the primary hypnosis. But I
cannot conceive the idea that the one explains the other.
Summary.
If the theory of subliminal consciousness does not satisfactorily
explain all the problems of hypnotism, we are at all events indebted
to it for a clearer conception, not only of the condition as a whole, but
also of many of its component parts.
The following points in the theory seem most worthy of notice :—
1. That the essential characteristic of the hypnotic state is the
subject's far-reaching power over his own organism.
2. That volition is increased and the moral state improved.
3. That the phenomena of hypnosis arise from, or at all events are
intimately connected with, voluntary alterations in the association and
dissociation of ideas.
4. That subliminal or subconscious states are more clearly defined
than in previous theories.
Considerable analogy exists between Mr. Myers' theory and Braid's
later one. In reference to the two first points their views are
■
What is Hypnotism ? 257
identical. Little difference exists between them as to the third.
Braid and Bennett both appreciated the important part played by
the arrangement of ideas in the production of hypnotic phenomena.
While the latter held that this was involuntary, the former recognised
that the volition was unimpaired. The existence of alternating
consciousnesses was not only recognised by Braid, but was also
regarded by him as explanatory of certain hypnotic phenomena. He
did not ascribe to it, however, the same importance as Mr. Myers
does, nor did he try to find in it a possible solution of all hypnotic
problems.
While Mr. Myers' theory may with justice be described as
such a development of Braid's as might have been expected from the
increased knowledge due to further, accumulation of facts, some of the
other theories already considered show a tendency to revert to
" mesmeric " types. The views as to the methods by which hypnotic
phenomena are evoked especially show this. The mesmerists attached
more importance to the means by which the phenomena were excited
than to the subject himself. The " odyllic " force could exercise its
power against the will of the subject and without his knowledge.
Every one was not susceptible to this influence, those who were being
termed "sensitives." The Charcot School hold that some inanimate
objects are capable of producing many phenomena practically identi
cal with the "mesmeric." Like the mesmerists, they believe that
the influence can be exerted without the subject's knowledge, and also
that every one is not susceptible to it. For the term " sensitive " they
substitute that of " hysterical." Bernheim's theory resembles that of
the mesmerists still more closely. He regards the operator, not the
subject, as the more important factor, and believes that a skilful
operator can hypnotise at least 90 per cent, of mankind. He holds
that in many instances the operator can compel the obedience of the
subject and force him to perform criminal acts. On this point he
differs from the Charcot School, and agrees with the mesmerists. The
power by which he evokes and also explains the phenomena, called, as
we have seen, by the mesmerists "odyllic force" and by Charcot
"hysteria," he terms "suggestion." Braid and Myers regard the
operator as the mere starter of the phenomena. His existence, ac
cording to Braid, is not even necessary. These observers differ from
Bernheim in reference to criminal suggestion and various other points
already noticed.
If Braid and Myers have done much towards giving us a clearer
idea of the hypnotic state, they have also added to the difficulties of
explaining it. A conception of hypnosis which limited its manifesta
tions to simple automatic movements was comparatively easy to
explain. The hypnotic subject, who, while he has not lost the
s 2
258 Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
physical and mental powers of his waking condition, has acquired new
and far-reaching ones, presents a very difficult problem. But normal
life contains many problems, both physiological and psychological,
which are yet unsolved and some— such as the causal connection
between mental and physical states,—which are apparently insoluble,
and while this is so, it would be unreasonable to expect a complete
explanation of that still more complex state— the hypnotic. Further
observation is always giving us clearer insight, if not into the central
problem itself, at all events into the phenomena which characterise
it. What increased practical advantage this may give us in curing
disease, alleviating pain, or improving moral states, time alone will
show. Meanwhile it is reasonable to hope that increased knowledge
may bring with it increased power.
Some Experiments in Crystal-Vision. 259
III.
SOME EXPERIMENTS IN CRYSTAL-VISION.
By Professor James H. Hyslop,
of Columbia College, New York.
From a series of notes taken at the time I report the following
results of experiments in crystal vision.1
In the course of my conversation with the percipient, Mrs. D ,
regarding her various experiences, she happened to mention that, when
a child, if she happened to look at the surface of a lake or body of
water reflecting sunlight, she often saw the most beautiful scenes not
in any way representing the objects about her. I at once thought of
the resemblance between this and the visions of crystal-gazing, and
resolved to try experiments in this with her. I procured a crystal and
gave it to Mrs. D , with information as to how it should be used.
After having tried the experiment and found it successful, Mrs. D
told me that when I asked her to try the crystal, she both resented such
experiments and utterly disbelieved that anything would result from
them. She therefore felt very greatly surprised when distinct visions
were produced by the crystal. When she tried it for the first time
and a scene appeared, she suspected that it was either a reflection of
some surrounding objects or an illusion produced by such a reflection.
But by changing her own position, or the position of the crystal, the
same scene would continue to appear in it. Most generally she shifted
the crystal about in various positions, but the act would not change
the vision, which remained constant in spite of alterations in position,
until some new scene presented itself with a like continuity under
various circumstances.
Another fact of considerable interest in the case is that some
times the vision appears on the surface of the crystal and sometimes
at the centre of it, and gradually develops into clearness. And again
it will sometimes originate in this way at the centre and be transferred
to the surface. But the distinction between the two kinds of vision is
very clear to Mrs. D . Sometimes when the scene appears at the
centre of the crystal, turning the glass will bring the same picture to
the surface. Mrs. I) is not sure that she can detect any difference
1 This Report was written in November, 1895.
260 Professor James H. Hyslop.
of meaning between the two kinds of vision. Indeed there has been
no reason to attach any meaning to any of them until investigation
suggested a possible significance in two or three of them ; and as no
record was kept of those which appeared at the centre of the crystal,
and of those that appeared at the surface, it is not possible at this
date to say whether any of those which investigation some months
afterward showed might be veridical were those at the centre or those
at the surface of the glass. That they are not representations of the
imagination is evident from Mrs. D 's deliberate attempt to
prevent a vision from developing when it once began to appear. She
says that in spite of both her repugnance to the experiments and
resistance to the occurrence of the visions, they came irresistibly and
represented often such absurd positions, attitudes and congeries of
facts, events, or scenes, that nothing but the dream-world resembled
them. This characteristic will be apparent in the description of them.
There are three series of them, obtained at different times and
numbered in their order. But as nothing of an apparently telepathic
nature occurred, or having any other kind of supernormal psychological
significance, the experiments were suspended and not resumed. The
following is an account of what was seen in the crystal, with the dates
when the experiments were made :—
February 18th, 1895, p.m.
1. An iceberg floating in the water.
2. A sunset view, with the observer looking over a hill upon a bank of
clouds surrounding the setting sun.
3. A human head lying on a pillow with the mouth very wide open.
4. The face of Mrs. D 's mother.
5. A woman and child lying in bed with face uncovered and bed clothes
pulled up to the neck.
6. An interesting and complicated scene, comprising a house resembling
one in which a relative had lived, and partly concealed by a ledge of cliff
rocks (not connected with the relative's house) ; one gable end of the house
seemed to have fallen out or [been] cut open, and various persons, including
children, men, and women, were coming out of this opening and returning
into it. To the left of the house were two objects like two tall posts. No
faces were recognised.
7. The entrance to a cemetery, which resembled the cemetery known by
Mrs. D at her old home in Ohio. But the appearance of it, beyond the
gate and wall with the tombstones and monuments, represented it as
different from what it was as Mrs. D had known it.
8. A person kneeling before a covered bier, and a face looking over the
bier toward the one kneeling before it.
9. Face with large nose and thin sunken lips.
March 20th, 1895.
10. Face of a Mr. D. who had been Mrs. D. 's pastor in P , Ohio,
and whom Mrs. D. had not seen for fifteen years until two or three years
from date in New York, and then had seen him frequently after this. But
Some Experiments in Crystal-Vision. 261
lie appeared as he had been known in Ohio. When the face appeared the
eyes were closed, the mouth open and the teeth gnashing. Not very clear
at first, but when it developed into distinctness Mrs. D. involuntarily
exclaimed, "Why, Mr. D." But when the crystal was turned the face
vanished quickly and other faces took its place. Before Mr. D.'s face
appeared, however, there was a very slight picture of a cemetery which
could be described only as a dream of a dream, it was so vague.
April 6th, 1895. 7—8 p.m.
11. A lady playing at a piano.
12. Lady holding an infant, and a child near by looking at the child.
13. A street with pavement and houses, and a child knocking at a white
door.
14. Lady standing at the left of an open trunk, holding up the lid with
the right hand and stooping over to take out something with the left hand.
The position was very unusual.
15. A little boy holding a baby in his arms.
16. A child lying asleep on a bed.
17. A man lying on a bed with a diamond shirt stud in his shirt bosom,
his head concealed from view by the head board. Behind the bed stood a
mirror or screen, and on the wall hung a picture.
18. A man propped up in bed with a pillow, and trying to write.
April 8th, 1895. 11.30-12 m.
19. A landscape representing a cow path entering a pair of bars into a
field, and trees, bushes, and stones on the right side of the bars.
20. One of the most interesting of the series.
A room with tiling on the floor and on one of the walls. The other wall
was in shadow, apparently caused by streaming sunlight passing through a
coloured glass window deeply set in the wall near the corner of the room.
Into this stream of light suddenly flew a dove. The scene was a very
brilliant one, and resembled that of a fine painting of a view in a mediaeval
castle or church. The tiling on the wall had cross marks in the pieces.
21. An abrupt rocky and dark cliff somewhat resembling an island with
clefts at the left hand through which the sun shone upon some water and in
the face of a man who was in the act of rising from a lying posture.
22. The head and face of a man with bushy beard and hair.
23. A bridge across a moat or canal with shipping and houses beyond,
such as are often seen in large cities.
Not having found that these images represented any known
experience in her life, or that they had any other significance, the
experiments were not continued. The visions were all very clear and
brilliant.
The problem that of course suggested itself to me was, first,
whether these visions represented the reproduction of anything once
seen or experienced by Mrs D ; second, whether there was, in
default of the first explanation, any evidence of supernormally
acquired knowledge ; and third, whether they were merely induced
hallucinations.
262 Professor James H. Hyslop.
On questioning Mrs. D about her memory of any of the scenes,
her emphatic reply was that she could not remember any of them,
except two or three faces, and the one (No. 7) resembling a cemetery
which she had known in Ohio, but which was so unlike it in other
respects that she would not assert the identity. All other pictures were
purely productions of her mind, so far as she knew. I reflected upon
the cases for several days, and it suddenly occurred to me that possibly
Mrs. D , being a very religious woman, may have often seen, and
perhaps been interested in at some time, a picture which is very common
in Bibles, or was at one time, and in other religious books, namely, a
picture of a dove flying in the beams of sunlight. I asked Mrs. D
whether she remembered ever seeing such a picture, and she replied that
she did not recall anything of the kind. But Mr. D soon remarked
that they had a Bible and had had it for a long time, on which was just
such a picture. Mrs. D then remembered the book, but could not
recall having noticed or thought of the picture. The peculiarity of the
case (No. 20), however, is that the crystal-vision resembled this picture
in no respect except that of the dove flying in the sunbeams. In all
but this it was like a reproduction of some picture in an art gallery.
I remember myself having seen one very much like Mrs. D 's
drawing in the Dresden Gallery, but Mrs. D has never been in
Dresden. I asked her whether she had ever seen such a picture in any
American gallery, store, or house, and she replied that she had not, so
far as her recollection went. It may, therefore, be a purely spontaneous
creation of the mind. But whether it be this, or the reproduction of
some forgotten visual experience, the chief interest lies in the sudden
appearance of a dove in the sunbeams, a phenomenon which seems to
show subliminal association between two totally distinct pictures.
The streaming sunlight in the picture seems, through suggestion, to
have called up the hallucination of the dove, which had probably been
seen at one time in the picture on the Bible, and was here connected
with a scene to which it had never belonged in reality.
A.t this point the matter stood without farther investigation, since
no clue to a similar interpretation of the other scenes could be obtained.
No recollection of them was possible to Mrs. D . But another
experience of hers increases the probability that the scenes are
reproduced past experiences without recognition. Mrs. D used
often to have a visual hallucination of a bright blue sky overhead, a
garden with a high walled fence, and a peculiar chain pump in the
garden situated at the back of a house. She attached no significance
to it, but took it for one of the many automatisms in her experience
which were without assignable meaning to her. But two summers ago
she had gone out west to her old home in D , Ohio, and made the
acquaintance of a lady whom she had never known before, and by
Some Experiments in Crystal-Vision. 263
chance was invited to take tea with her one evening. She went, and
after tea remarked that she would like to have a drink of water. The
lady of the house remarked : " All right, let us go out into the garden
and get a fresh drink from the well." They went, and behold here
was the identical blue sky, high fence, and chain pump which she had
so often seen in her vision. After going home in the evening, Mrs.
D told her mother of her experience, remarking how strange it
was. Her mother replied that when Mrs. D was a little girl
about two or three years old she used to visit this house very
frequently with her. Here, then, is a case of spontaneous reproduc
tion without recognition. Mrs. D has had one other similar
experience connected with the events of her early childhood.1
Perhaps one remark ought to be made on number six (No. 6) of
the visions. The form and shape of the house were very familiar to
Mrs. D , being those of a relative's. But the cliff of stone and
the opening in the gable end were no part of the house and its locality
as she knew them.
But there are two cases which are interesting as coincidences. The
first of these is the vision of the entrance to the old cemetery in Ohio
(No. 7).
This last summer, July and August, 1895, Mrs. D visited her
old home in D , Ohio. Now it must be remembered in this
i connection that all the crystal-visions occurred during the illness of
Mrs. D 's brother, who lived in Ohio, and I report below some coin
cidences occurring at the time between Mrs. D 's automatisms and
the condition of her brother. One of them was that a postal card or
letter was written by him saying that he was propped up in bed writing,
and this was somewhere near the time when her crystal-vision (No. 18)
of a man in this position occurred. But there was no recognition of
her brother's form in it. However, I lay no stress upon this incident,
except to mention that it prompted Mrs. D to make inquiries
1 Mrs. D gives the following account, written in 1893, of these experiences :—
"A few years ago I was visiting my mother. I said, 'Mother, I dreamed of being
in some place last night. It seemed so real, I want to tell it to yon.' After telling
her of the house, the queer garden, etc., mother told me I had been there, but that
I was a very small child when I made my visit.
"Through the early years of my life a place came to my mind so vividly [that] it
seemed I surely had seen it. Sometimes it came when awake, sometimes in sleep.
When about 20 years old I became acquainted with a lady friend. I was at her house
to tea. After tea I asked for water. She said ' Come on, we will get some fresh.' I
followed her and came out into the square with frame walls all around, the blue sky
above, and there was the old chain pump. I had seen the same place and pump many
times in thought, and many times had looked up at the blue sky above. I told mother
of my experience and of the former thoughts of the place. She said, ' Yes, Eva ;
you were there visiting when a little girl.' I know I was not five years old, perhaps
only three. Mother said her cousin used to live in the house."
264 Professor James H. Hyslop.
about various things to determine whether there were any coincidences
in the other cases of crystal-vision. Since her parents and sister did
not like to believe in her experiences as more than fancies, Mrs. D
did not tell them her experiments, but questioned them carefully in
regard to what occurred during her brother's illness, all in a way
merely to satisfy a sort of gossipy curiosity and without arousing
suspicion as to her motives. She found, in her own judgment,
several coincidences between the thoughts of her sister and brother and
herself at the time of the crystal-vision, one of which is interesting.
Mrs. D visited the old cemetery purposely to see how far it
resembled her crystal-vision of it. To her astonishment the resemblance
was complete. The tombstones and monuments which appeared in the
vision, and which she had never seen, or could not recall seeing, were
there with the entrance, precisely as they appeared in the vision.
They—the monuments, not the entrance—were recent additions to the
cemetery, and since the time when Mrs. D—— had seen it many years
ago. Mrs. D inquired very carefully whether her sister had had
the cemetery in mind during the brother's illness. The brother had
suffered from a relapse of typhoid fever ; all hope of his recovery had
been abandoned by his relatives, and Mrs. D was ready to respond
to a summons at any time to attend the funeral. The family burial
place was not in this particular cemetery, but in another graveyard
now in a rather dilapidated condition. As most of the family were
still living and a new lot might seem desirable, the sister said she
often thought, during her brother's illness, that they ought to purchase
a new lot in this better kept cemetery, and was ready to propose
it in case of her brother's death. In this way was established
the fact that the cemetery was often in the sister's mind, and she
knew from familiarity the exact appearance of the entrance to it.
It is possible, therefore, to account for the crystal-vision by telepathic
influences, if we accept such a fact and if we attach any value to the
coincidence.
The second case in which the coincidence may have some interest
was that of the fifth crystal-vision (No. 5). This was that of a woman
and child lying in bed. This vision occurred during the illness of
Mrs. D 's brother and during her mental anxiety about him. The
peculiarity about it is that Mrs. D thought of her sister-in-law, her
sick brother's wife, and recognised her form and appearance about
the head, but could not recognise the face. But she knew no reason to
account for the presence of a baby in bed with the sister-in-law. When
she was visiting her brother during the summer, as referred to above,
she learned from his wife that he, during the illness, was constantly
troubled with the illusion that she had given birth to a child, and
could not be divested of it. He often referred to the circumstance,
Some Experiments in Crystal-Vision. 265
and insisted in a delirious condition on seeing the child, when, as a
matter of fact, there was no reason in the case for his belief.
But strict science, before it can attach evidential value to the
coincidences, must be able to record more accurately the time of the
thoughts which are assumed to be the cause of the vision. The
absence of this feature from the case very greatly diminishes the value
of the instances for the purposes to which we might wish to put them
as evidence. But the cases are, of course, such that there was no
chance to obtain the definite kuowledge, and we are left with just
enough coincidence to make us laugh and wonder, while we entertain
a sceptical attitude in regard to their significance. In this they are
illustrations of those frequent coincidences, occurring spontaneously,
to which it is impossible to give scientific completeness, and which can
have no value until they are multiplied so numerously and under such
varying conditions as to make us doubt the influence of chance. In
these instances, however, we are certainly shut off from the kind of
evidence which strict scientific method demands, until it be otherwise
shown that telepathy does not depend upon chronological coincidences.
[Mrs. D , as Professor Hyslop mentions, has had a large number
of psychical experiences, which he had been engaged in investigating
for some time before his account of her crystal-visions was written.
They were fully reported by him in a series of letters to Dr. Hodgson,
and it will be interesting in connection with the above to give some of
the best authenticated cases. We quote here extracts from Professor
Hyslop's letters, with statements by Mr. and Mrs. D . Ed.]
(1)
Mr. D.'s Statement.
May Wh, 1893.
I was a Sophomore, or Junior, at . The Young Ladies' Institute
was at the foot of " the Hill " on one of the streets that led from the College
to the main street of the village.
One of the girls, looking from the window of her room, saw a student
passing. She knew neither his name nor his aim in life. I am not certain
that she had ever noticed him particularly. If at all, it was simply as a
student and member of the church choir. She felt that the young man was
tempted to cease studying for the ministry, and choose some other calling.
Something told her to pray for him. She did, of course. Fear kept her
from asking the other " Sem." girls who the stranger was, or what profession
he had chosen. Not many days afterwards he led a prayer meeting in the
church. After meeting she managed to pluck up courage to ask his name.
Not till later did she learn of his calling. As the young student had no
company he cared especially for, he secured an introduction to this young
lady through a mutual lady friend.
266 Professor James H. Hyslop.
I think it was during his first call that he was startled with the question,
"Were you ever tempted to give up studying for the ministry?" She
afterwards told him how he acted and what he said. He could remember
neither his actions nor his words. After several minutes' thought and
walking across the room, he returned to her side and simply asked her,
" Why do you ask that question 1 " Then she explained her impression and
her act. He then told her how a short time back he was inclined, not to
cease studying for the ministry, formally, but to study for a Greek
professorship, which would of course be a practical abandonment of the
ministry. But he assured her that he had told no human being of this
thought before that afternoon.
How did she know my mental experience 1 Were my thoughts
transferred to her ? Am inclined to think I had noticed her particularly
among the other ladies of the Institute and desired her acquaintance, but I
did not intend to tell her that which in some way she had learned.
Mrs. D.'s Account.
June 15th, 1893.
The incident mentioned by my husband to Dr. Hyslop proved so inter
esting that he has asked me to give it more in detail. First I should remark
that Mr. D. was not quite accurate in the particulars of his account, though
correct in the main incident. My own memory also can be refreshed by
reference to my journal, which I kept at that time, and had kept for a long
time before, and we have kept since. But, as I remember the experience, it
was somewhat as follows.
1 have always been of a devoutly religious turn of mind, and so accustomed
to give such incidents a religious meaning. When this occurred, I did not
know that it had any special scientific value, and remembered it only as a
very remarkable experience, and do not recall ever alluding to it to any one
except my husband. It took place a number of years ago, the exact date,
which was October 5th, 1879, being found in my journal of that time. On
that evening, before retiring for the night, I was reading my Bible, as was
my usual custom, and suddenly saw the vision of a face appear before
me. I had raised my head up from the Bible, and was looking toward the
wall. The face was that of a gentleman whom I afterwards felt that I must
have seen among the students of University, of the same place, but
having no connection with the ladies' seminary. I should also say that the
face did not appear to be an ordinary memory picture, representing a strong
impression, but was projected beyond me and externalised, so that it seemed
quite as real as any actual person would seem. At the same time, the vision
was accompanied by a voice indicating very distinctly that the gentleman
was tempted and that I should pray for him.
The voice which 1 mention here was quite as real as the vision. It said :
"He's tempted, pray for him." What the temptation was in particular did
not come to me until I was in the midst of my prayer on my knees, and then
it was that he was tempted to abandon the ministry. The voice I heard was
one that enables me to understand why the negroes and some other
enthusiasts say at times that the Lord tells them audibly certain things
they narrate for revelations,—a fact I mention in order to indicate that the
Some Experiments in Crystal -Vision. 267
voice was more than an impression in my mind. I can always distinguish
the two, such experiences being frequent. But the particular temptation
came to me as a thought, and not as a voice.
The thought seemed very irrelevant and foolish to me, and I tried to
pass it by. But it was too insistent to be thus disposed of. I therefore
obeyed the feeling that I should pray for him, though 1 had never met the
person and did not even know [his] name. Such an occurrence had no
special meaning to me other than a religious one. But I could not under
stand why his temptation to abandon his studies for the ministry, if any
person was so tempted, could or should be revealed to me in this way. But
at any rate, the impression was so vivid and my curiosity so aroused, that I
resolved to try and find the student represented by it. I was afraid to say
anything to my schoolmates about the experience, for fear they would laugh
at me for having a special interest in this person, and so I kept the whole
matter sacredly to myself, all the while improving every opportunity to try
the identification and verification of the impression. Some time afterward I
recognised the person at an entertainment, as he stepped upon the platform,
but would not say anything about it. Later I was at a prayer-meeting where
he led the exercises, and by this time I mustered up courage to ask some
one what his name was. On the same evening I found also that he was a
student for the ministry. This excited my curiosity still more, but I had no
immediate means of gratifying it. It was several months later before I met
him, and then rather by accident on my part. It was at one of the young
ladies' society entertainments. But nothing was said of my experience to
the gentleman for obvious reasons. It was not until several months
afterward that the matter was mentioned between us. In the mean time, we
frequently met each other. But when it was mentioned, it occurred in a
singular way. We were talking over a Sunday school lesson concerning
temptation together, when I happened to tell him what my experience had
been. He at once arose from his seat, and looking as pale as a sheet,
walked backward and forward for a few minutes, stepped to the window
and looked out, and then returned to his seat, when he remarked : " Well,
E., that is the strangest thing I ever heard. I guess the Lord must have
meant you for my guardian angel." He then confessed that he had, some
time before, been tempted to abandon his study for the ministry, during the
very period in the midst of which I had my experience. But by this time
he had concluded to continue his studies, and not to be tempted by a career
in a Greek professorship. My experience then had taken place while he was
in his mental struggle, and long before I had any opportunity to verify it
personally and without any knowledge of the facts which it represented,
especially as Mr. D. himself had not mentioned the fact of his temptation
to any one.
Mr. D. adds :—
June 15th, 1893.
I remember distinctly that I was interested in Mrs. D. (then Miss B.), be
fore we met, having seen her frequently among the students of the Seminary.
My interest was a strong one, and could easily have been romantic. I also
remember quite confidently that, while passing through my mental struggle,
I wondered what she would think, if 1 thought of abandoning the ministry,
2G8 Professor James H. Hydop.
and which she would prefer, a fact that may indicate the strength of my
interest in her, and for which there was no reason, except the attraction [she]
had for [me]. In regard to the temptation to abandon the study for the
ministry, I can say that it was brought on by my pleasure in the study of
Greek. It was understood that I was destined for the pulpit, and the sense
of honour I felt about it came into conflict with the desire to devote myself to
the Greek language ; and so for several months I was sorely tempted to choose
the latter. After a severe struggle I finally decided to abide by my first
resolutions, and kept the mental struggle to myself. I told no one about it,
so that there was no opportunity for Miss B. to hear of it, and even if she
had, it would have had no meaning to her, because we were entire strangers
to each other. My astonishment can then be imagined when, some months
later, she told me of her experience, revealing the fact which I had concealed
so carefully.
Professor Hyslop's Report.
Columbia College, New York, June 16th, 1893.
Mrs. D.'s present written account was taken down yesterday by myself
from her own statements, and is identical with the story she told me on the
7th instant, when I called to learn more about it than Mr. D.'s letter
indicated.
Mr. D. merely mentioned the incident, and on my request for more details,
replied that he and his wife had talked it over, and that he found several more
details of interest in it. I then made an arrangement to see them on the
afternoon of the 7th instant. In the mean time, Mrs. D. suspected that she
might have mentioned the experience in her journal which she had kept at
the time and before she was in college, and on examination found that she
had done so on the very night of its occurrence, the 5th of October, 1879.
She said nothing of the fact to her husband, and he was entirely ignorant
of the existence of the journal until she mentioned her consultation of
it to me in his presence, when he expressed his surprise. She then told
me the details of her experience, as I have given them, and I took down
the journal for the 5th of October, 1879. I emphasized the value of the
incident on the ground of the recorded evidence, and urged her to write out
a full account of it. From my account of such phenomena and the meaning
of them her curiosity was aroused, and she wondered whether her journal
said anything more about it. She referred to it again, and to her own
surprise, found all the other entries which I have appended. I give below
the various entries in the journal, indicating by dots the existence of matter
not connected with the case at all.
" October 5th, 1879.—On this eve, while sitting in my room, a face that
I have seen present at our meetings came before my vision so plain that I am
impressed that this person is, or has been, suffering temptation. It seems to
me that he has in time past felt that he should study for the ministry, and is
now tempted to give up this idea. I felt impressed that I must pray for him.
Then the thought came to me,—strange that I should have such a feeling, for
I do not even know the name, but how plainly I see his face. I have prayed,
and earnestly, although for a stranger, yes, a perfect stranger. After arising
from my knees, I soliloquised thus : I wonder who he is ; if he is studying for
the ministry. Why should these feelings come to me 1 I mean to find out."
Some Experiments in Crystal-Vision. 269
"October 18th [1879].—Several of us attended the rhetorical exercises in
Hall. Since the 5th of this month I have been endeavouring to find
out the name of the dark-eyed stranger spoken of. To-day I heard his name
spoken when called on for his recitation. I found myself becoming much
interested in this person. I pray for him daily, for I feel that he needs my
prayers "
" October 28th, [1879].—Attended prayer meeting in the B. P. Church.
The dark-eyed stranger that I am praying for led the meeting. While he
was reading, talking and praying, I sat silently praying for him. Since
October 5th, I have found out that he is studying for the ministry. I feel so
anxious to become acquainted with him, and ask him whether he has been
suffering temptation concerning his studying for the ministry. I wonder if
we will ever be permitted to meet ? . . . ."
[ This last question was prompted by the strictness of the rules which
kept the students of both institutions from meeting except on rare
occasions.]
" December 5th.—Attended the Society. I met my stranger. . . ."
[The Society here alluded to was the Philharmonic of the Seminary.]
" February 7ih, 1880.—Mr. D. called at the Sem. During the afternoon
I told him my feelings on October 5th, and he said that he had been suffering
temptation concerning studying for the ministry. . . ."
Of Mr. and Mrs. D 1 can say that they are both educated people, and
of very respectable intelligence, non-believers in Spiritualism and not super
stitious, unless a belief in special providences must be so interpreted. Mr.
D. is a Baptist minister, engaged in mission work in , and has attended
my lectures at Columbia College this school year, and I have found him
intellectually a careful and cautious man on all matters of scientific facts and
theories. Mrs. D. is equally so, though perhaps her tendency to give many
of her peculiar experiences a special meaning might be regarded as due to
mental incautiousness. But I found her without any explanation of some
of them and curious to know if psychology could account for them. In fact,
there was only one class of her impressions, of which she has had many, that
seemed to her to have a definitely religious import. I can understand how,
in the absence of a knowledge of telepathy, a religious mind might give a
serious import to many of the impressions mentioned to me, and this
without in the least being suspected of or chargeable with a weak judgment.
I found her memory for small things very good, and this in regard to
ordinary events in her life [which] have no significance whatever. Her
ordinary perceptions are evidently very vivid, and she does not fail to
remember them down to the smallest details.
She very often hears a voice, which quite uniformly is connected
with her religious life. It is nearly always a command to pray. Sometimes
it is merely a conviction or thought. She distinguishes very clearly between
them, and did so spontaneously and without any question from me. It was
a matter of curiosity to herself that there should be this peculiar difference
between the impressions, some being sensible, as it were, and others merely
intellectual. The voice in these instances is perfectly audible to herself,
though apparently less vivid than common sounds. These are the cases
which have seemed to her to have a personally religious import, simply
270 Professor James H. Hyslop.
because they happened to concur with a devotional life, and occur at times
when she feels some special need, and apparently in response to it.
(2)
Mrs. D.'s Account.
January 20th, 1894.
On the night of June 26—27, here in [N.Y.], I had a dream which
impressed me so that I noted [it] down the next day, the following being the
details of the journal.
"Tuesday, June 27th, 1893.
"Several weeks ago I felt impressed to write to aunt R., an aunt I have
not seen for eight years and have not heard from for a long time—never
received a letter myself from her nor [ever] wrote to her. She con
tinued in my mind for two days and a night. I neglected writing. Last
night I saw, in dreams, aunt A., (the aunt with whom R. lives). We were
in the cemetery [P , Ohio] ; aunt held in her arms a little child. The
ground was disturbed for some distance. It seemed that she was trying to
make room by putting the little one across the foot of the grave, as one
would place a little one across the foot of the bed. I said, ' Who is it 1—
Berdie 1 ' (a little one she had lost years ago.) Aunt was covering the earth
carefully around the little form and crying as if her heart would break.
While sitting at my sewing this morning, I thought of my dream and how
strange it was. My mind was on aunt A., when a voice said 'Aunt R. is
dead.' I will write this eve."
The letter which I wrote to my aunt that evening contained the following
extract, which was the only reference I made to my dream.
"June 27th, 1893.
"I write to you because I saw you in my dreams last night with such a
troubled face. If you do not feel like writing, let some one else write, that
I may know you are all well."
This extract I copied from the letter before sending it and placed it on
the same page with the journal of the dream.
It is of interest to remark that I have not been in correspondence with
my aunt, and have had no communication with the family for six or eight
years. The last communication from one of the members was not a very
pleasant one, and hence we had no means of following up each other's lives.
On the 10th of July I went west and arrived at D -, Ohio, about six
o'clock in the evening of the 11th of July. I was met by my sister at the
station, and asked her how all the folks were, using the expressions, '' Are
all well ? Is father well ?" She replied in regard to father, " Not very, he
is down to P , G. is dead." I had asked this question because
between the date of my dream and this time I had frequently seemed to see
my father's face and it wore such a pitiful look.
Professor Hyslop's Report.
Brooklyn, N.Y., January 20th, 1894.
There were a number of incidents in connection with the dream which
Mrs. D. did not mention in the journal. The first of these was that, as she
Some Experiments in Crystal-Vision. 271
sat at her work table the morning after the dream, she wondered if any
one was sick, and thought it was her aunt's youngest, G., but she was
uncertain in her feelings about it ; and about an hour after a clairaudient voice
seemed to say that it was aunt R. , which was all wrong. But she could not,
in her hesitation as to the person dead, feel that it was any one but G., and
yet uncertainty hovered about this.
The week before the dream her cousin N., the sister of the child who had
died, was frequently in Mrs. D.'s mind, and twice she sat down to write to
her, but failed because she finally thought that her cousin would not care to hear
from her after the long estrangement between them. (I should also say at
this point that G. had expressed a desire to be at peace with all her relatives
and to forget all the past differences that had given rise to estrangement.)
Mrs. D. said that in thinking about her cousin all this time before the dream,
she felt that she (the cousin) must be in trouble. It was only a vague feeling
without any definite contents that would convey to her what was the cause
of it. It was only after Mrs. D. 's arrival at D , some weeks later, she
learned that her cousin was very anxious at the time of the dream about a
little son, sick with the scarlet fever.
I will add that on July 15th, Mr. D., who remained behind in ,
after his wife's departure for the West, wrote me a postal card, which I still
have, and among its contents is a reference to the dream about the death of
her aunt's child and the corroboration of it. He alludes to her having made a
journal of it before going West, and before learning of the facts.
New York, February 3rd, 1894.
Mrs. D. in answer to my further inquiries, tells me that the child died of
spinal meningitis, at M , Wisconsin, whither she had gone on a visit.
Her mother did not live there, but had gone thither to nurse her daughter.
The accompanying obituary notice shows that the child had died on July 8th,
1893, [aged 16] and was buried on July 10th. This places her death at twelve
days, and her burial at fourteen days, after the dream. She was buried at
P , Ohio, and Mrs. D. informs me herself that she is not familiar with
the lot where the grave is situated.
New York, March Uth, 1894.
I wrote to Mrs. D.'s cousin in M , Wisconsin, at whose home the girl
died, and submitted the following questions to be answered, bearing upon
the possible mental anxiety of the mother at the time of Mrs. D.'s dream,
two weeks before her cousin's death. I give the answer of my correspondent
after each question.
1. "How long was Miss G. sick?" Answer. "Two weeks and from
Wednesday to Saturday."
2. " Where was her mother when she heard of the daughter's sickness i"
Answer. "At home, P , Ohio."
3. ' 1 How long before her daughter's death did the mother know that the
illness was a dangerous one ? " Answer. " From the time she came."
4. " How long was Mrs. G., the mother, with her daughter before the
latter's death ? " Answer. " Two weeks and two days."
5. "How was the mother informed of the sickness?" Answer. "By
telegram."
T
272 Professor James H. Hyslop.
To one of the questions was also added the remark that " the doctors
said she (the daughter) would not die, but Ma said she knew she would from
the first," a fact which must be remembered when reading another incident
which I have still to narrate. But it will be noted in the answer to my
question that the mother's consciousness of her daughter's danger and her
mental anxiety preceded the death long enough to coincide with the dream
of Mrs. D., and that is sufficient to take the case out of the class of
premonitions.
But now in addition to the answers from the sister I learn the following
interesting facts, volunteered by the sister, now Mrs. A., in M ,
Wisconsin. She writes me that on the Wednesday night that her sister
took sick, June 21st, the sick sister had the following experience, which I
shall narrate in Mrs. A.'s own words. We have only to remember that Miss
G., the sister, had been taken from school and sent to Wisconsin, as the
narrative indicates, on account of some threatened ill-health, and had been
absent from home since March, 1893. This explains the separation of
mother and daughter. Now for Mrs. A.'s account.
"March 9th, 1894.
"Sister G. took sick Wednesday. [June 21st.] She had not been well
since November [1892]. They took her out of school and sent her here, but
she was very much better from the time she came, in March, until she took
sick the Wednesday I spoke of. Wednesday she had not been able to sit
up all day, but we just thought it sick headache. About ten o'clock at night,
I had not retired, she was sleeping nicely. All at once she jumped out of
bed and came out in the room where I was, crying. I asked what was the
matter. She said, ' Mamma is calling me. I dreamed so plainly of hearing
her call me.' That same night about the same time, mamma was asleep [in
P , Ohio,] and she thought G. called her. She answered, ' Yes, I'll
come.' Then that woke Papa and he woke her. She said she knew
something was wrong with G. The next morning we sent the telegram for
her to come.
"Another thing was very queer, I think. The doctors said sister was not
going to die. Ma said as soon as she saw her she would not live. We sent
word home as the doctors said. Well, Wednesday before she died, [which
was on] Saturday, she was better. We sent them word to that effect and
had sent no other word. At 11 o'clock Saturday morning Papa, (he was in
P , Ohio) said to my other sister, ' G. is dying.' She said, ' Why no,
she is better.' A little while after he said 'She is dead,' and she died at
20 minutes after 11 o'clock.
(Signed) "Mrs. L. H. A."
The family of Miss G. refused to give Professor Hyslop any further
information in this case.
(3)
Mrs. D.'s Account.
January 20th, 1894.
About the first of this month, I had a dream which was connected with
my sister, the youngest daughter in our family. I dreamed that I was with
this sister attending a funeral at my mother's house. The person at whoso
Some Experiments in Crystal-Vision. 273
funeral I was present seemed to be an entire stranger to me. I seemed to
see the coffin placed with the head to the West, in the only position in which
it could be placed. The face of the corpse was round, full and plump. The
hair was dark and pushed back from the forehead. The person seemed to be
about maturity. But I could not recognise her as any one in my acquaint
ance. Only I remember that the face was an unusual one, as persons of that
age have a sort of sameness that prevents the drawing clearly the differences
between them in expression. But in this case the expression was striking
as that of a stranger, the forehead appearing intellectual. The face was pale
but not sunken as a corpse appears usually.
Two or three days afterwards I received the following letter from my
sister.
"D , Ohio, January 2nd, 1893 [94.]
"Dear E.,—It seems rather strange for me to be writing a letter at one
o'clock in the morning, but that is just what I am doing. N. Mc E. came
into our house this afternoon and took a chill, and has been very sick. She
has had La Grippe and I guess it is a kind of relapse—she was very delirious
all evening and has to have medicine every half-hour part of the night and
every hour the rest. . . .
Tour sister, P."
Unfortunately I cannot at this date remember distinctly whether my
dream occurred precisely at the time my sister was writing to me. I only
remember that when I received the letter and opened it, and before reading
it, I exclaimed, " Just night before last I dreamed of her." When I read
the letter it occurred to me that the coincidence would be of interest to Dr.
Hyslop, and I wondered if the stranger's face really looked as it appeared in
the dream.
Professor Hyslop's Report.
New York, April 2nd, 1894.
I have just received a letter from Mrs. D.'s sister, [as follows] :
" D , Ohio, March 29th, 1894.
"Dr. Hyslop,—I have just been able to learn the date of the night of
which you spoke in your letter. It was the evening of January 9th that I
wrote to Mrs. D. and I think about half-past eleven when I finished the
letter. The young lady of which you spoke has blue eyes, almost black
curly hair which was coiled on the back of her head. At some time before
midnight [I] took down her hair and braided it so that it would rest on the
pillow. The young lady has naturally a very full round face, and did not
look at all wasted at the time."
The following is a second letter in regard to the same matter as the above
—the date of the original letter.
"D , Ohio, July 17th, 1894.
"Dr. Hyslop,—I have delayed answering your letter of April 2nd, hoping
to send you the exact date of the letter in question. This I find I cannot
do—but I know that it was either the 9th of January, or one week before
the 9th, which would be the 2nd, and it was not '93 but '94. Enclosed
T 2
274 Professor James H. Hyslop.
you will find a small picture of the lady which you need not return. I
think Mrs. D. will recognise the picture, although it was taken several
years ago."
New York, September 2oth, 1894.
After receiving the above letter, I had to wait several weeks before I
could get an opportunity to see Mrs. D. and to try the experiment [of] the
identification of the picture and the person seen in her vision or dream. I
arranged with Mr. D. by note to call to-day, the distinct object of the visit
being kept secret from Mrs. D. I took with me seven photographs, besides
the one I wanted identified. I selected them in a style that would prevent
any striking contrasts with the one to be identified, which was a very plain
and simple photograph, taken in the country, representing plain dress and
none of the flourishes of modern style. I therefore selected pictures taken
from ten to eighteen years ago and representing plain faces, and simple
dress, so that none would be rejected on the a priori ground that they were
too stylish for the region from which the picture came and could not possibly
represent such a person as Miss McE.
I took them out of an envelope in which I had carried them and threw
them on the table without any arrangement, except to see that none of them
overlapped, and then mentioned the object of my errand. Mrs. D., after
recalling the incident, at once remarked that she was dubious about the
chance of recognising the lady, because in the vision the hair was brushed
back on the forehead in such a peculiar way. But picking up a piece of
paper at our suggestion she said she would try, and without a moment's
hesitation or deliberation, placed it over the forehead of the right picture,
saying that she thought this was the one, but would cover the hair to see if
Bhe could be surer. She found that her judgment was confirmed, and she
expressed herself as more strongly convinced of her impressions. Her
husband suggested that she should try the experiment on another one in
which the hair was brushed back from the forehead. But she refused,
saying promptly that this could not be the person, and no other picture
presented a temptation to her except the right one. She remarked that the
expression of the eyes and face about the eyes was that of the person she
saw in the vision, and no other face showed this. She also went on to
remark that the difficulty she knew she must meet in the case was the effect
of the different position of the hair, and of the face which was seen from a
quarter view in the vision, but with a full front in the picture. But in spite
of this, her recognition was positive and unshaken, so far as comparison with
the other photographs was concerned.
I may add that I did not believe, when I tried the experiment, that there
would be the slightest tendency to identification, much less the promptness
and assurance felt that there were notable resemblances between the
picture and the face in the vision, and that none were found in the other
pictures.
It is important to remember that Mrs. D. was not acquainted with and
had never seen the lady represented by the picture and seen in the dream.
They were absolute strangers to each other, the lady having made the
acquaintance of Mrs. D.'s sister in the Sunday school, being a pupil of hers,
I believe.
Some Experiments in Crystal-Vision. 275
(4)
Professor Hyslop's Report. ^ ^ 18g5
Most of the details of this incident were told me before the issue of the
events was known, as will appear in the story and the first impression,
confirmed by Mr. D. I received Mrs. D. 's account on March 18th and the
final knowledge of her brother's recovery, concerning whom her experience
was, was received on March 25th and April 2nd. But I can best give the
incidents as they were told me in full and then give Mrs. D.'s memorandum
of them written out afterward at my request.
Previous to the illness of her brother and before she had the slightest
knowledge of the fact, one of those impressions came that she must write to
him and his wife to know if they were well. It was accompanied with a
sort of palpitation of the heart which is an invariable sign with her that such
impressions have a probable meaning. The feeling was intense and she
could not banish her brother from her thoughts, though not accustomed to
communicate with him frequently or to feel any such concern about him as
she then felt, apparently without reason. This was during the week
previous to February 23rd or 24th, when she received a card from her father,
dated February 22nd, telling of the serious illness of her brother. Her
feelings continued after this, sometimes being very intense, and at times she
felt certain of his death or approaching death. On Saturday, March 16th, a
telegram was sent from D , Ohio, where Mrs. D.'s father lives, saying
" B. worse; we have but little hope; come if can." This indicated a
critical condition, but as it was too late to start that evening she resolved to
wait until Monday morning. In the meantime at 10.20 p.m. that night,
Saturday, while listening to Mr. D. reading a description of the disease
(typhoid fever) and with a heavy heart, all at once, like the rolling away of
a dark cloud or the lifting of a dense fog, she felt the impression and
assurance that her brother would live, and on the strength of it Mr. D.
telegraphed to her father that Mrs. D. would await further news before
going. On Monday, March 18bh, Mrs. D. went to the dentist, and about
noon, while sitting in the dentist's chair and watching the funny traits and
behaviour of a strange lady in another chair, she felt a thud at her heart and
heard a voice say "B. is dead." But strange to say there was no feeling
that it was true. On the contrary, she felt it was not true and seemed
assured, as she had been since Saturday, that he would get well. On March
25th she received a letter from her father saying her brother was much better
and that the doctor spoke very encouragingly of the case. Similar news came
on April 2nd. He has since recovered. These letters, cards and telegram I
have in my possession and have used them in compiling the above account,
so that it is not merely a matter of memory in regard to dates and facts.
Mrs. D.'s abbreviated account of the facts is as follows : "During the
week previous to receiving father's card of February 22nd, I had twice felt
the startled feeling of my heart and felt that I must write to B. and his
wife. They were much in my mind. I lived over the days I spent with
them. The following is father's postal :
' D , Ohio, February 22nd.
'Dear E.,—This is our forty-second anniversary and a rather sad one.
Ma has been quite sick, but is better and so she is about. B. is down
276 Professor James H. Hyslop.
with typhoid fever. He commenced complaining some two weeks ago
and has been under the doctor's care for a week. We feel very anxious
about him, but hope for the best.—Your father, J.B.'
The next word from home was a telegram sent on Saturday, March 16th,
and a postal card written March 15th and received March 18th, stating that
brother could hardly live. On Saturday evening I prayed that he would be
spared and while listening to Mr. D. [reading] a description of the disease,
like the rolling away of a cloud or the lifting of a dense fog, I felt assured
that B. would live. On that night I saw Mother's face in agony, consider
ably drawn and showing great anxiety. On Monday morning at the dentist's
about 12 o'clock, while interested in a very peculiar character that sat in
the other dental chair and while laughing at some queer remarks she was
making, there came a thump of my heart so strong that I felt as if I had
been hit and the words ' B. is dead.' In the afternoon Dr. Hyslop came
and left a crystal glass for crystal gazing."
Then follows a remark or two regarding the effect of experiments with
the crystal, among them being one apparition of her brother's face with a
short stubby beard upon it, just such as would grow during sickness, though
no mention of the fact had been made in the correspondence, and the idea
had not occurred to her in thinking of her brother's illness.
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 277
IV.
A CASE OP PSYCHIC AUTOMATISM, INCLUDING
"SPEAKING WITH TONGUES."
By Albert Le Baron.1
Communicated by Professor William James.
[In the early seventies I was invited to see a young woman from
the country, who had come up to Boston in the hope of finding some
learned men in that city who might be able to determine the unknown
language which her lips were irresistibly impelled to utter. I cannot
now recall her account of the way in which this phenomenon in her
had originated, but it was a curious thing to hear. ■ When she gave
herself permission, her vocal organs would articulate nonsense-syllables
with the greatest volubility and animation of expression and with no
apparent fatigue, and then again stop at the behest of her will. The
young woman and the friends with whom she stayed seemed sincere
in their belief that this must be a religious miracle identical with the
" speaking with tongues " so common among the earliest Christians,
and which St. Paul seems himself to have possessed, judging from
I. Corinthians, Chap. XIV. It is hardly needful to say that at
the time when I saw her, this young woman's speech had not been
recognised by any linguistic expert in Boston or Cambridge, and that
(she herself knowing no foreign tongue) all its phonetic elements were
palpably English.
I never heard of the later history of her case, and have never since
met with this phenomenon of automatism until I became acquainted
last year with Mr. Le Baron, as I will call the gentleman whose
narrative follows. I had, a couple of years previously, corresponded
with him about a small and abstruse work on metaphysics which he
had published ; a year later, the lady whom he calls Evangel in
his narrative wrote to me that he had become the subject of remark
able personal powers which I ought to witness f and correspondence
1 Author's Rights reserved.
2 T^8 k the letter =~ " November 26th, 1894.
" My Dear Pbofessob James,—Among those who came to [us] this summer was
Mr. [Le Baron.] He was so much impressed with what he thought the ideal state of
things which he found that he returned again and again for a day at a time to get an
278 Albert Le Baron.
finally brought about a meeting with him and an exhibition of his
vocal automatism, of which, at his request, Dr. Hodgson and I
presently had phonograms taken, which are now at the Society's office
in Boston.
Mr. Le Baron, who is a literary man, aged 39, was at that time
(February, 1895) much impressed by his various experiences, and by
no means willing to abandon the idea that his unintelligible vocal
performances were involuntary reproductions of some ancient or remote
tongue. His earnestness and energy in seeking to gain corroboration
for this view is the best possible proof that the vocal movements
carried with them for him, as he made them, no subjective feeling of
being due to his personal will. This, too, in spite of the fact that his
will could both start and arrest them, make them go fast or slow, and
sing instead of speaking them. The phonetic elements in his case again
seemed English ; and I tried to make him believe (but all in vain) that
the whole thing was a decidedly rudimentary form of motor automa
tism analogous to the scrawls and scribbles of an " undeveloped "
automatically-writing hand. He spent hours poring over grammars
and vocabularies of African and Asiatic tongues. First it was Coptic,
then Rommany, then something Dravidian. I corresponded with
uplift, as he said. On one of these occasions while calling at our house (he was in a
room which was always my mother's afternoon room), he had a strange psychical
experience. He began talking in a way that he could not control. Later he spoke to
me in a voice so like my mother's that her St. Bernard dog, which hitherto had not
noticed him, got up and went over to him and smelt his face in seeming recognition.
As he seemed unable to help himself, I became alarmed and called help. Since then
he has had many strange experiences, speaking in various tongues and writing down
the sounds phonetically and then writing translations. One of them ' Hymn to
Egypt,' I mail herewith. He is conscious of all he does now, and can permit the
utterance or not at will. He is very desirous of confirming the tongues if possible.
. . . Some one versed in Oriental languages could quickly tell whether what
comes to him is of value.—Respectfully yours,
"(Signed) ."
A later letter from the same lady reads as follows :—
"April 26th, 1895.
"Mr Dear Professor James,— . . . Mr. [Le Baron] came to [our camp]
last summer, to write-up for the a short account of [our] work. He had
been a great lover of the Kantian philosophy, but he had lapsed into agnosticism,
and almost pessimism. The work at [Shelter Island] interested him so much that he
remained over night. During the night he had a vision concerning it which seemed
to him so far from realisation that he spent the night in tears, and went away feeling
that our work was an ideal one, but that there was no place for it in this busy,
bustling nineteenth century. Nevertheless, it lured him back again, and one evening
while sitting in our reception room at our own house, and talking with me concerning
the work and my mother's life, he had a very startling experience. He was suddenly
psychologised in some way, and, though conscious, began saying words which he felt
did not originate in his own mind. His whole manner of speaking and his tones
changed so much that the large St. Bernard dog, which had been a special pet of my
mother, rose up from the rug and went over to him and began lapping his hands all
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 279
various philologists in his behalf, sending them specimens, phoneti
cally written out, of his discourse. But no light came, and finally he
grew convinced, by the mere progress of the phenomenon, that it was
less important than it pretended to be.
At last, yielding to urgent importunity on my part (for the case
seemed to me too rare and too valuable from the intellectual character
of the subject to be lost), Mr. Le Baron has written out the autobio
graphic narrative which follows of his experience. The names are
changed to prevent identification, and the actual geographical scope
of country disguised; but the facts related I believe to be substantially
true, and the relative distances of the journeys taken are correct. Of
the sincerity of the writer I have myself no doubt.
William James.]
Albert Le Baron's Experience.
In the summer of 1894 I had occasion, for the sake of a certain
literary project, to visit a portion of our coast. At a place to which I
will give the name of Shelter Island I found a group of mystics
summering. I drifted into the esoteric camp with a copy of Kant's
over. The tone in which Mr. [Le Baron] spoke was very like my mother's, and the
words said purported to be inspired by her. When I saw how much he was affected,
I became alarmed and called assistance. After a time he resumed his normal
condition, and said that he had been conscious through it all, knew that he was
talking, but could not help himself. This, as I understand, was the beginning of
many strange experiences which came to him later, at home surrounded by his
family, and also when away from home on journeys.
" Of the strange tongues with which he speaks I can say but little. I have no
knowledge of them, and the translations that purport to be given are largely of an
ethical nature. He has kept a very accurate account of these communications, but I
have not yet had the leisure and opportunity to examine them.
" This speaking in strange tongues is not a new thing to me. Once in this city
I heard an old man, a Catholic, speak in a tongue which was very musical, and
purported to be an old form of the Latin language. He was entirely an uneducated
man, and later on what he said was translated by Mrs. Cora L. V. Richmond, of whom
you have probably heard. What was given purported to be from a priest of the
Romish Church who was a missionary to California several hundred years ago, and
in this communication he claimed that what he said could all be verified by documents
now in the Vatican at Rome. These communications were taken down by Mrs.
Richmond's husband in shorthand, and if you desire, I have no doubt you can verify
what I have said.
"Concerning Mr. [Le Baron] there is little more to be said except this: that
the experiences which have come to him have altered his whole course of thinking.
Where he was formerly despondent, he is now optimistic, and at peace with himself.
This in itself is a great joy to his family and to me. If I could see you, I could tell
you much more which at present it is impossible for me to write.
" I feel that Mr. [Le Barou] has a work before him for which these experiences
are in some degree, perhaps, preparing him. Of this I feel sure : that he is earnest,
sincere, and absolutely to be relied upon.—Very truly yours,
280 Albert Le Baron.
" Critique " in my valise, by way of a little light summer reading.
The leader of the Shelter Island mystics, Evangel, was a spiritist
of the loftiest type, a believer in re-incarnation, whose psycho-
automatic " control " was her dead mother. Of practical genuine
spiritualism I knew nothing. To theosophy I was an utter stranger.
I found the atmosphere of the camp pregnant with a new type
of the old style of millenial optimism. The World's Congress of
Religions had re-awakened the hope of a new chemistry of civilisation.
The pious heart of Evangel was solacing itself with the holy hope
of doing something to effect a union of the occidental and oriental
religions on the purest conceivable basis of Gnostic-Platonism.
Occasionally, seances were secretly held, far into the midnight, for
the purpose of procuring information from " invisible brethren " to
carry on the work. At one of these seances I met with my first
experience. We were seated under a pine tree. Clairvoyants were
present. " Wheels " of light and other phenomena were said to be
seen by them. I sat listening to the affirmations.
Suddenly an entirely new and strange psycho-automatic force shook
through me like a gust of fierce wind through a tree. I willed myself
into a state of passivity in order to observe the phenomena. I went
into no trance however. The force became intelligent in action. It
drew back my neck. Additional motor violence was displayed in my
limbs. I was brought, from my sitting posture, down on the flat of
my back. The force produced a motor disturbance of my head and
jaws. My mouth made automatic movements ; till, in a few seconds,
I was distinctly conscious of another's voice—unearthly, awful, loud,
and weird—bursting through the woodland from my own lips, with
the despairing words : " Oh ! My People ! " Mutterings of semi-
purposive prophecy followed. One of the clairvoyants added additional
weirdness to the experience by positively affirming that phantasms of
ancient Egyptian sages stood over me.
I was so dazed and " rattled " by the experience and the motor
disturbances, that, at the close of the seance, I had to be assisted to my
feet, and was walked for some time to and fro in the night air to
recover my equilibrium.
The witnesses of the foregoing experience are alive at this hour.
The names can be secured—if desired—by any one. Either Professor
James or Dr. Hodgson could secure them and furnish them, for the
names of some of them are already known to the S.P.R. officers.
During my short stay in the camp I enjoyed the hospitality of
Evangel. Later, I was reclining on the sofa her mother had lain
on during her last sickness. Again, the psycho-automatism struggled
to manifest itself. I shaded my eyes with my hand to shut off dis
tracting objects, and to assist my thought to a dead stand-still. This
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 281
time, a woman's voice came through my lips. Evangel positively
claimed that it was the voice of her dead mother.
On hearing the voice of the woman escape my lips, her dead
mother's old dog " Barry " staggered painfully across the room to where
I was lying, and began smelling my face.
" He smells her ! " whispered Evangel. The old dog lay down
by my side. In a few minutes the voice of the psycho-automatism
changed. A man's deep voice succeeded that of the dead woman's.
" It's father ! " again whispered Evangel.
Statements of a semi-prophetic character were again indulged in by
the psycho-automatism, and the words : " he shall be a leader of the
hosts of the Lord ! " exploded with loud emphasis. The seance came
to a close. The effect of all this new experience on my emotional
nature was powerful. I trod in holy awe about the rooms of the house
of Evangel, as, ever and anon, vibrations of the psycho-automatism
with which I was en rapport trembled through my nerves, evoking
strange and holy modes of the most exquisite consciousness.
Those feelings were the most wonderful I have ever enjoyed.
One night I slept in the bed where the dead father of Evangel
slept during the last years of his life. The next morning I awoke
lame. I limped about painfully for hours. The father of Evangel
was a lame man.1 As a sensitive somnambule I had taken on his lame
condition. On the general principle that all startling and unusual
phenomena are interpreted as having some personal bearing, particu
larly when we are distinctly informed that they have, I construed the
vibrations of the psycho-automatism, whenever they occurred, as
evidence of the presence of the " spirit " of Evangel's mother.
" Has mother been here 1 " asked Evangel on one occasion, dis
covering me in a flood of tears. I answered her in an affirmative sob,
and a tone of pious awe ; for my assent to the spiritistic interpreta
tion of the phenomena had induced a permanent and deep exaltation
of religious sentiment. I would lie in bed on my back, peering
wistfully into the night darkness at the shadowy and vapoury outlines
of what I supposed to be "invisible brethren." I could hear distinct
raps on the head-board. Small globules of golden light would, after
travelling about the room in the blackness, come and melt away over
my eyes. In the dense darkness, a group of arithmetical figures once
shone from near the ceiling of the room.
Evangel was the possessor of a finger ring, considered to possess
occult powers. She had been told by a clairvoyant that she was to
receive this talisman, some months previous to her reception of it. The
1 In answer to enquiries, Mr. Le Baron writes: "I did not know beforehand
that her father was lame. I was informed so when seen limping."—Ed.
282 Albert Le Baron.
gem came in a roundabout way from Egypt, having been purchased
from an Arab by a certain American gentleman whilst on a trip to
the Orient.
The mysterious advent of this ring, and the profound belief of
Evangel in the genuineness of the communications from the spirit of her
saintly mother, were the two—as she considered them—impregnable
facts, by the means of which she substantiated the accuracy of her
call to her work. As proof of the occult spiritual power of the ring,
Evangel told of a young man, a sceptic, who, on placing the ring on
his finger, was thrown down on the floor of a room in a convulsive
condition.
I heard the story and asked for the ring to be placed on my finger.
An attempt at spontaneous chirography was suggested. My hand
flew in wide jerky spasmodic movements over the table. Nothing
intelligible came. I laughed in incredulity. Evangel gently rebuked
me : " You must not laugh at them." "They are glad to meet you ! "
ejaculated another lady in the room, explaining the violence of the
motor disturbances.
But the ice was broken. It was only a question of development. It
was also explained that I was difficult to control, and that it would take
a little time for " them " to be able to write through me. Subsequently
the psycho-physical spontaneity controlled the right arm and hand,
and wrote intelligible verbiage. Prom subsequent experiences, I
believe the automatism capable of modifying the ordinary presentations
of at least four out of the five senses. As the interpretation of life
by me now was solely from the angle of mystical cognition, rather
than from the theorems of pure reason, I became a most devoutly
earnest religionist. My love of the sublime was nurtured by the dream
of Evangel as to the possibility of the union of the occidental and
oriental religious worlds, and my converse with the " spirits " of the
dead upon that vast subject. I secretly avoided the living to talk with
the " spirits " in the depths of the pine woods, or on the hill-tops,
with my head bared to the heavens. Following out the same principle,
I took delight in roaming through private burying grounds. I invari
able " sensed " the presence of the spontaneity in grave-yards ; and
this " sensing " of the psycho-spontaneity was always interpreted by
me to be an indication of the presence of the " invisible brotherhood."
I became ascetic, and avoided animal food. I quoted the oracles of
Zoroaster, and laid aside Kant's " Critique." I became exquisitely
morbid on the subject of my own spiritual and moral unworthiness,
and could not reconcile humility with the splendid confidence of
Evangel.
The first message of importance given to me on leaving Shelter
Island was at Riverhead, September 6th and 8th, 1894. The first
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 283
message was to be sent to Evangel as purporting to be an address
to her from her mother. In the second address, the psycho-spontaneity
or automatism, assuming to be the " true mother " of my " soul," said,
among other things : " I am going to guide you into the way of truth.
You must be at the door of the church near the old house
in the town of Stowe, which is in the state Vermont, by the time the
sun rises on next Tuesday. You will then see the reason why I told
you to go." On September 9th, at my residence, having returned to
New York City, I asked for more explicit instructions. Among other
things, the psycho-automatism, still assuming to be the dead mother
of Evangel, said : " I think you are now to be the one that shall
hear the voice of the One .that shall be the truth. . . . You will
know that it is He by the voice of the Holy One." As (in my opinion,
though perhaps obscurely stated) the reverence accompanying the deific
rhetoric of civilisations varies in the ratio that the special education of
a people leads them to insert their own concrete value into any given
method of rhetoric, I did not deem it unlikely that the psycho-
automatism would assume that deific rhetorical style likely to be the
most revered by me. I did not know that such a village as Stowe
existed. But Evangel did, as I subsequently learned. A map
showed the village located some distance from Bolton. On Sunday
night I left New York for Bolton, Vermont. I hired a carriage at the
hotel at Bolton, and drove to Stowe. At Stowe I ordered the carriage
ready by sunrise. The next morning about 5 o'clock I was in the porch
of the church. The building was old, weather-beaten, and the flooring
of the porch in a decayed condition. The porch faced the east, and the
edifice was on a hill overlooking the village. An old house stood near
it. I uncovered my head and stood in the porch and faced the east.
The night had been a drizzling one. The sky was black with the
remnants of the rain clouds. Slowly golden streaks of dawn appeared.
The black clouds rolled away. The sun arose. I noticed a grave-yard
across a field. The psycho-automatism indicated an ejection of verbiage.
The verbiage assumed a deific style, and was as follows :—
I shall be glorified in the work of the people, for thou hast proved
thyself to be the man whose voice is the voice of Him who sent thee.
Thou has obeyed the command of the Holy One, and the valleys shall
rejoice in the hope and the joy of the Lord. I shall be in thy heart, and
thou shalt answer to my voice.
Such a style of verbiage proved to me that the cause of the psycho-
automatism knew that my emotional nature would be influenced by it
when I recognised its deific modes of composition. I have no adequate
idea of any deific object answering to such a communicating style, but
simply state the facts, irrespective of the deific, or any other mere
rhetorical form.
284 Albert Le Baron.
On returning to Bolton I concluded to remain there till I had
finished a certain small piece of literary work. On Wednesday night,
September 12th, I retired to my room at the inn somewhat early, to be
alone with the " invisible brotherhood ";—perchance they had something
to communicate. Again the psycho-automatism assumed the grave
deific style known to the occidental English-speaking world. Viva
voce it gave utterance to the following chain of historic conceptions :—
I will tell thee of the days of thy sojourning in the land of the people
of the Jumba, where the land is the joy and the light is the joy of the
people. The land is the country of the ancient Egyptians, and thy glory
and thy power was the pride of the people. Thy name was Rameses, and
thy glory was the end of the triumph of the people. Thou didst throw
down the people, for their joy was the truth of the truth. Thou didst
exalt thyself to the end, and the hope of the truth was in thy keeping, and
thy victory was the fall of the truth. Thy way was not the way of the
Lord, and the Lord hath sent thee through the fire.
The point I subsequently made on the foregoing speech, was, that
granting the composition to be a chain of lies from beginning to end,
it certainly takes some degree of intelligence to be able to lie so
artistically, and that the cause of the psycho-automatism must have
known something of the truth about the matter, to be able to lie
about it.
I deem it a vital necessity for future psychical illustration to give
a somewhat full and adequate illustration of the various rhetorical
forms of the deific verbiage employed by my psycho-automatism.
Heretofore, experimental inductions of such psycho-automatic pro
cesses have not scientifically reached the analytical stage of the
mystico-deific-modes.
A somewhat poetic form of the deific style given to me viva voce in
a hotel of Woodstock, Vermont, is a case in point. There are some
eighty-nine words in the passage.
When the song of the day is the song of the night, and the truth is the
joy, and the triumph of the peace is the song of the redeemed, then the
hope of all flesh shall be the truth, and the deliverance from the truth
which now is the truth of the day but the darkness of the light ! The
flash of the truth is the truth of the day, and the flash of the fire of the
truth shall soon be the light of the night.
That a high excitement of the mind inspiring confidence and hope
of success is an essential to the induction of such phenomena goes
without saying. On any lower plane than ecstasy or transport of soul
I was in a constantly distressed condition.
From this arose the temptation to yield—at odd moments—a
facility of credulous assent to the re-incarnating and other assertions of
the psycho-automatism. If, however, I accepted the mystic conceptions
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 285
as bond fide, then I was thrown into violent antagonism to my own
common sense, and that of the world. On the other hand, if I withdrew
my assent to the holier utterances of the psycho-automatism, then my
" spiritual " nature and love of the sublime violently rebelled. Thus I
vibrated like a pendulum between the new world of psychic phenomena
on the one hand, and the old world of physical phenomena on the
other. To my cognition of the foregoing alternative was presented the
following perplexing dilemma. If both of these worlds of experience
simply implied relations of my consciousness to two totally distinct
worlds of phenomena, and my consciousness was in any way related
to the deific " thing-in-itself " ; then, from what unknown source
emanated these two distinct worlds of phenomena to which the laws
of this deific consciousness related ? This crux criticorum still
remains the puzzle of my life.
But other startling experiences were before me.
On Monday morning, September 17th, came another message viva
voce to go to St. Louis. To a house on the street " which is called the
street of the the number is one, two, three."
This I construed to mean 123, Street. The object of my
going was explained. I would meet some one there who would give
me information. In this message given in my home in the suburbs of
New York City to go to St. Louis, a tendency to the antithetical deific
style appeared more fully. The principle by which conceptions were
purposely set in opposition to each other, revealed itself in the following
seventy-five words :—
I have seen thee in glory, and I have seen thee in shame !
I have seen thee in light, and I have seen thee in darkness !
I have seen thee in peace, and I have seen thee in terror !
I have seen thee in joy, and I have seen thee in sorrow !
I have seen thee exalted, and I have seen thee debased !
Tuesday, September 18th, I secured railway transportation, New
York to St. Louis, return ; and whilst on the train, conversed by
means of a pencil and pad with the psycho-automatism. The perpetual
question with me was : Can I via psycho-automatism, ascend into the
uncreated essence of thought—to the Mind of Minds—and perchance
snatch down some new metaphysical conception helpful to the lower
world ? Utter self-surrender and self-abandonment were insisted on
by the psycho-automatism. 123, Street, I found to be a
business block. The number had been given, as I thought, simply as a
test. Other tests were given the next day. I began to rebel. In the
directory I found the name of an artist whom I knew. I explained
myself. Prom my artist friend I learned that the most occult man in
the west lived on Chonteau Avenue, and that he considered his life
controlled by a princely priest of the house of Rameses the great ! I
286 Albert Le Baron.
called on the gentleman and saw a picture of this Egyptian prince-
priest on the wall of his room. The occultist was ascetic in appearance,
pale, with large dreamy eyes. I explained my mission ; and later,
whilst in an apparently semi-trance condition, he made a lengthy
foreign speech which purported to come from the princely priest of the
house of the Egyptian King. A stenographer who was present took
down the subsequent translation. Both the gentleman and his
stenographer knew Evangel.
The following sentences may shew the trend of the verbiage and
the conceptions :—
Oh ! Son of Ram ! For the first time have I the privilege of speaking
to you face to face since I last held your hands chilling with physical death
on the banks of the Nile. ... I congratulate you that you have laid
aside the tempestuous feeling of arrogance which, in the ancient days,
controlled you for your overpowering — which have brought to you in
the times past much of discipline, much of sorrow, much of anguish, before
you had entered the present body. . . . Having fulfilled obligations to
the utmost, having reached the point to which you were sent and directed
through the devious ways which you have travelled to reach and attain.
We know you well enough to understand that the life which comes will be
devoted to such degree as possible, under the circumstances of the environ
ment, to the new thought—the understanding and comprehension of the
real, and to the awakening to that which you become to see is the unreality.
Out of the darkness shall come the Light, the Light that is the joy and the
hope of the nations ! Etc.
The speech of this gentleman simply added fuel to my psychic fire,
and I have every reason to believe that the gentleman believed that he
was uttering a genuine foreign tongue.
Was this psycho-automatism " fooling " this man, as well as myself?
If not, what as yet undiscovered law governed the phenomena 1 That
this psycho-automatism could reach a style of deific assumption even
majestic in its utterance, is further illustrated by the following
composition, which came through my hand automatically, far into the
dead of night, as I lay in a passion of self-abasement on my bed in
the hotel.
The love of the past hath been darkness, the love of the future shall be
light ! The power of all flesh is love, and the light of all flesh is love !
My love shall cover the great mountains ! My love shall rule the seas
as with a rod of power ! My love shall be the strength of the Day,
and my love shall be the curtain of the Darkness ! My love shall inhabit
the earth, and my love shall save all flesh ! My love shall be thy father
and thy mother, and my love shall be thy love ! My love is the sun in its
strength, and the flowers breathe my love ! The stars rejoice in my love,
and my love shall fill all things with my glory ! I love the man whose heart
is broken, and I love the woman whose sorrow is the cup of her peace !
I love the man who is poor, and the man who is filled with the joys
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 287
of life ! I love the man who shall not love me, and I love the man
who loves me ! I love the darkness, for the darkness shall be light !
I love the terror, for I love the peace ! I love the beauty of man, and I
love the sadness of man ! I love the unrest of man, and I love the
peace of man ! I love the peace, and I love the sorrow ! I love the joy,
and I love the terror ! I love the praise, and I love the curse ! I love the
man whose ways are dark, and I love the man whose ways are light !
I love the love of hope, and I love the love of love ! I love the day of
mourning, and I love the day of joy ! I love the love of pleasure, and I
love the love of pain ! I love the man who steals, and I love him from
whom he hath stolen ! I love the man who kills, and I love the man
who is slain ! I love the world, for the world is mine, and the truth of all
things is love !
To substantiate the fact that the psycho-automatism can give—
viva voce as well as by automatic chirography—expression to concep
tions embodying the same antithetic principle of reiterative deific
personification, I append the following seventy-five words :—
I have heard the roar of cities ! I have heard the music of the
woodlands ! I have heard the tears of the nations as they fell ! I have
heard the songs of the nations as they rose ! I have heard the roar of the
death of the man who was slain in battle ! I have heard the shout of
the victor ! I have heard the new word, and I have heard the old word !
It is for the reader to decide whether or no the above phrases can
be construed as being in any way explanatory of the transcendental
basis of the world as a sum of phenomena. They are beyond my
comprehension. Whether or no they proceed telepathically from the
living or dead ; or whether they proceed from some transcendental
subject, which is a sort of deific representation of that which con
tains the grounds of cosmical phenomena according to unknown and
transcendental laws, I cannot make deposition to. I do not know.
Whilst on my return trip to New York City, my first experience in
clairaudience was given. I was sleeping, and suddenly awakened by
a voice shouting in my ear the words : " The enthusiasm shall fill
the hearts of the multitude in the place of the hours of the day ! "
In subsequent dreams came such sentences as : " It shall take two
birds to carry thee, my son." " Blessed are they who always obey
themselves." The latter sentence I saw in my dream, in English
characters, among a number of ideographs on an Egyptian slab of
stone.
From the foregoing it is evident that, in its incipiency, the pheno
menon differed from that of a de'doublement de la personnalitS, in that
it did not appear to be a case of " subliminal consciousness " on the
one hand, or a supra-normal intellectual faculty on the other, but
distinctly that of a purely extraneous psycho-physical spontaneity or
V
288 Albert Le Baron.
automatism. It was psychic, for it presented conceptions ; it was
physical, for it presented sense intuitions ; it was spontaneous and
automatic, for it acted independently of the usual trend of motor
phenomena on the one hand, and of the wilful intelligence as used
in ordinary experience on the other. This it automatically continued
to do until later on in my experience, when I believed myself to be
so completely en rapport with it that I considered the spontaneity
practically identical with and in perfect accord with the actions of
my own will. From this point on, there was a gradual diminution
in the character of the manifestations.
Just so long as I assented to its absolute objectivity, my emotions
and feelings were all dramatically influenced to joy or grief by the
appearance of its conceptions. It was unquestionably true that if
interests could be predicated of the cause of the psycho-automatism,
those interests were always in an inverse ratio to physical pleasure on
a low plane. How my suffering could be in any sense an advantage
to the cause of this psycho-automatism, save as a means of getting me
into a more sensitive condition, I do not know. And yet my experi
ence repeatedly taught me that a complete self-surrender to the psycho-
automatism, as a deific telepathic ideal, resulted in the communication
of a loftier flow of verbiage. And, as a distinct mode of consciousness,
the psycho-mystic mode now ranked, in my own experience, as the
causa sine qua non of a definite form of religion.
The automatism repeatedly urged me to take long journeys, which,
judging from my past experience in obeying it, I have no doubt would
have resulted in gifts of deific verbiage, and other phenomena, if I had
obeyed. It told me to be in on the 30th of December, 1894, and
I should receive a reward, but I did not go. It told me to go and see
the Emperor of China, but I did not go. It told me to go to Seville,
Spain, but I did not go. The only reason I could account for its
perpetual desire for me to take such journeys was that it seemed to
know that my nervous system transmitted better when I was in a
" worked-up " condition when coming and going. Expectation or
disappointment threw me into the more sensitive condition essential to
its manifestation.
Speaking in Unknown Tongues.
It is hardly necessary to observe that a deific style of verbiage is
necessarily relative, and that—as mere sound—the neighing of a pony
is more musical to my ear than for a man to utter deific conceptions to
me in a language I know nothing about. On Sunday morning,
September 30th, 1894, I had my first experience in " speaking in
unknown tongues," at my residence in the suburbs of New York City.
I had been conversing with the psycho-automatism the night previous,
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 289
and up to that time had received sufficient deific verbiage, one way and
the other, to make a small book. Suddenly, whilst conversing with it
in my bedroom on Sunday morning, it changed abruptly off from
English into unintelligible sounds resembling a foreign tongue, and
which, had I not been, as I think, pretty level-headed at the time, I
should have construed as a mental state pathognomic of mania. And
yet I was not sufficiently "at myself " to immediately seize pencil and
pad and write down the sounds. When I subsequently asked of the
psycho-automatism for a translation, among others I received the two
following :—
The Darkness to Egypt.
I have seen all thy ways, O son of the Nile ! I have heard all thy songs,
0 son of the Nile ! I have listened to all thy woes, O son of the Nile ! I
have been with thee, O son of the Nile ! I have been near thee when thy
days were full of glory. I have been near thee when thy days were covered
in sadness. I have heard thy voice, O son of Egypt ! I have counted thy
tears, O son of Egypt ! I have heard thy voice of wailing, O son of Egypt !
1 have watched thee when thy men of might have flown ; I have watched
thee when thy glory has faded ; I have watched thee when thy sun has set ;
I have watched thee, O son of the Nile ! Thy tears have been my tears ; thy
joys have been my joys ; thy woes have been my woes. O son of the Nile,
I love thee ! O son of the Nile, I love thee ! My heart yearns for the days
of thy glory. My heart opens to thy heart. O son of the Nile, how I love
thee ! Thy sands are now the way of the stranger ; thy plains are now the
path of the poor ; thy fields are now the wastes of the day. Thy hope is
gone ; thy day has fled ; thy years are gone. O son of Egypt, I have loved,
loved, loved, loved thee ! Thy day shall rise again. Thy hope shall dawn,
thy sun shall shine, thy love shall be mine, thy tears shall flow, thy hope
shall dawn, thy flowers shall bloom again. Thy palaces shall rise again, thy
dream shall live again. Thy years shall be years of joy, thy triumph shall be
the triumph of peace, thy walks shall ring with new songs, thy hopes shall
dawn with new stars, thy rivers shall flow with new life ; thy heavens shall
blaze with new light. Thy hope is my hope, thy coming is my coming. I
am he who loved thee ; I am he who kissed thy lips ; I am he who in thy
great hour was thine. I love thee, I love thee, I love thee ; O son of Egypt,
I love thee ! When thy day shall rise again, I will be thy guide ; when thy
hour shall dawn again, I will be thy love ; when thy morn shall rise again, I
will be thy sun ; when thy life shall flow, I will be thy heart ; when thy love
shall beat, I will be thy breast ; when thy womb shall bear thy young, I will
be thy guide ; when thy life shall ebb again, I will be thy life ; when thy
star shall go to rest, I will be thy night ; when thy love shall be thy day, I
will be thy love. O son of Egypt, I have loved thee ! Thy way has been
long ; thy path has been dark ; thy woes have been many ; thy tears have
been as the sand. I love thee ! I love thee ! I love thee !
The other translation embodied, among other things, the following
relatively intelligible sentences, which, as I wrote them down, according
v 2
290 Albert Le Baron.
to the sounds, are as enigmatical to me as the purported foreign
tongue from which they assumed to be a translation :—
Son of Peru—of Gerro—of Terro—of Tichaperu—Terra—Terra—of
Pesuro—of Tepecutu—of Teruto—Zeereelu—Instopan—of Zeecorila—
Sceucru. Greeting : I have come through these of mine—I have come—I
have come ! Eros, Eros, Eros.
The intelligibility of the first translation, at least, the a priori
cognitive content of the translated sentences assured me that the
unintelligible sounds were not necessarily pathognomic of mania, but
like the repeated requests to take journeys, were another stratagem to
keep me in a " worked-up " condition of expectation or disappointment
essential to its manifestations. If, caeteris paribus, such was its
object, it succeeded admirably, and here, again, arose the temptation
to yield a facility of credulous assent to the opinion that I was
speaking a language known to me previously, on the hypothesis of the
pre-existence of the soul. This for a time I believed. In my
attempt to demonstrate this I exerted an immense amount of philo
logical energy, as Professor William James and Dr. Hodgson can
testify. On Monday, October 1st, 1894, I left my home in the
suburbs of New York City for the town of Levanna, N.Y. In room
12 of the hotel and on Monday night, came the following messages
in " unknown tongues " together with the interpretations :—
The Unknown Tongue.—Te rumete tau. Ilee lete leele luto scele.
Impe re scele lee luto. Onko keere scete tere lute. Ombo te scele
te bere te kure. Sinte te lute sinte Kuru. Orumo imbo impe rute
scelete. Singe, singe, singe, eru. Imba, Imba, Imba.
The Translation. —The old word ! I love the old word of the heavens !
The love of the heavens is emperor ! The love of the darkness is slavery !
The heavens are wise, the heavens are true, the heavens are sure. The love
of the earth is past ! The King now rules in the heavens !
Unknown Tongue.—Etce ce Tera. Lute te turo scente. Inke runo
tere. Scete inte telee turo. Oru imbe impe iste. Simpe, Simpe,
Simpe.
Translation.—Love now has been sent ! The light of the earth ! The
joy of the day ! The light of all the world !
Unknown Tongue.—Puree otee Sincalee. Sintee teef eenotef
teeotsepo. Teeoseeton guopeson. Oto te pere te ture, te tere, te
stere, te tinke, te lutetum. Ombo, Ombo, Ombo.
Translation.—The light of the day has now come ! The darkness has
gone ! The love of earth, of air, of darkness, of night is no more !
Unknown Tongue.—Egypto.—Mome su u Ra. Ere mete su onko
inte. Ama tu telee. Oumbe te senete su u Ra. Inter pelee te tete.
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 291
Ombo O sceuntri. Inteneo duru sinte. Mome su u Ra. Sene tu
te skule. Ombo telute tene turo inko. Impe telute omko sinke tinke
devuda. Ombededo dene sinte lepo. Olumono teme setre comto.
Mome su u Ra. Entenke tele mete tura obde sinte tulepe. Onite tete
leste dinke itelete. Mome su u Ra. Indude dinke lutesin, Amen
Ra, Amen Ra, Amen Ra.
Translation.—O son of Ra ! I have come to thee ! The truth has come !
I have come, O son of Ra ! See the truth in me ! The truth is not of
darkness, 0 son of Ra ! I will teach thee ! I will tell thee of the light !
The light is all that I will teach thee ! The truth shall lead thee ! It shall
be all that shall lead thee, O son of Ra ! The truth has long been hidden
from thee ! The light has been small ! Darkness has been thine, O son of
Ra ! In the truth the love is known ! The pure sun !
Unknown Tongue.—Intelete te intelute. Bule te skuru te sinte
omkoton. Stinte te lete ode tinka ong. Lepe lute impe sute compo
intope. Lute su empri. Lute lu lelee inkapon. Instute te binka-
long te pelee te obde de pere. Bolotele te sinte. Inde tere somte
compo. Peme tu stimele inkepe. Surume tome lete skuru. Istepe
tompo dere ombo luto lutoston. Amen Ra, Amen Ra, Amen Ra.
Translation. —The book of the past is not the book of the love ! It is
the song of the sadness ! The great light has come to help the darkness !
Love is emperor ! Love is the light of the darkness ! The home of the
poor is the palace of love ! All the light is love ! All the earth shall be
light ! All the darkness shall be light ! All the light shall be darkness !
The love of all things shall be the light of all things ! Pure light !
Unknown Tongue.—De Bedeouins. Scele ce ompo. Ilee te tere
simpee. Orumee tereme scele. Orumeto te scelo te rume. Rene
mene te scele. Ire scelete sceluto. Keputuro sceletis. Simerete te
scele. Intemete te colope. Erete esimpe sonte. Samarata et te
lute. Eru de lute de sumbos. Indodede scele erumo. Orumoro
impe iste. Scele poloto arimo. Imba, Imba, Imba.
Translation.—Light is omnipotent ! To love the darkness is simple ! I
have brought the light ! I have lighted the heavens ! The Darkness of the
Heavens shall pass ! I adore the great heavens ! The Darkness has gone !
The light is simple ! The Glory has come ! The one has ruled ! I love the
Sarah of old ! I love the day of the symbols ! The heavens are now aflame !
The morning has come ! The night is polluted !
Unknown Tongue. —Esteru Combo. Esteelee te teme te skomo te
turo impe. Impe ikke te turo teto. Repe tete inke. De gurumbo
de tete. Itru re simpe te compo. Inte te polote. Erim de stere te
tau. Repe tete institi. De bulo de ruro de dere. Instipiti te com.
Oinboro de pemeste. Rume debe. Ororde de sumpto. Interule de
combo. Inke rule ruletee. Simbaletee te tokan. Tinke te rulee
tete. Ikombo de sceninkee. Sere te combo de elee. Indo, Indo,
Indo.
292 Albert Le Baron.
Translation.—I have heard ! I see ! I understand ! Understand, and
see, and hear ! I see ! See the end ! The Darkness doth see ! The Light
doth see ! He hath finished the Darkness ! I see the pollution ! The only
light has come ! I see it all ! The book, the truth, the word ! The truth
has come ! The Day has dawned ! Darkness flies ! The way is Great !
The thought has come and the Day ! The symbol has passed ! The fact is
here ! I have come to see you ! I have come to love you !
Unknown Tongue.—Ingruputo Cepetuotef. Sentefopleson leme
teme tome. Intersperopston stefoeton. Ilu, Ilu, Ilu.
Translation.—The light has been sent to me ! The light shall come to
you !
Unknown Tongue.—Bode lute compokon su me tote se bute
lomele. Ilu impte tutete compete. Sere muto tompe. Boomo tepe
iste olo tene. Istrune te poto lotete. Bete ponko tseste letelo. Bute
pinkete ofsto sute lute. Lute compte luteson. Pileto sintere luteto.
Bule tule linke ompto dicele. Inste luton crito pomero. Interstele
tele produmo lute mute sinkeru ompto. Sinketeru lute tete picketu
simpetu. Sitituti, Sitituti, Sitituti.
Translation.—I have now brought you the word of light ! The love is
the love of the Day ! The Day is of the Love ! The coming of all things
are near ! The instrument is of the word-man. The power is with the
word-man! The joy is of the love! The great love of the Love Man !
The love of the Great-Love-Man. The book will tell you of all the Love
Greatness ! The Light of the Power is the Love of all things ! The Love
is produced by the great light of all things ! All the Light must come from
the Great Light !
In the attempt subsequently to explain the foregoing " foreign
tongues " I arranged nine different theories from which the reader
may take his choice.
First Theory.—The sentences are all the work of a powerful
unconscious imagination and the sentences do not possess the natural
consonantal and vowel elements of a language at all.
Second Theory.—They are brand new ideas in old and foreign
verbal husks, the forms of which were latent in the man's sub
consciousness at birth.
Third Theory.—The consonantal and vowel combinations are but
the articulate shells of very ancient ideas latent in this man's sub
consciousness at birth, but out of the shells of which the meanings
have been eaten up or metamorphosed by some at present unknown
law of mental evolution, but are not now to be considered as ideas
at all.
Fourth Theory.—They are none of the foregoing, but are new and
actual presentations of real and new ideas in a foreign tongue.
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 293
Fifth Theory.—They are none of the foregoing, but a ludicrous and
silly mistake of the man's imagination allied to some species of
humorous hallucination and are not to be considered seriously, or they
are a perjury, or a ghastly jest, or a very profound mental trick, or the
loose jargon of a maniac.
Sixth Theory.—They are none of the foregoing, but are a species of
scientific telepathy, and the consonantal and vowel combinations come
from some morally indifferent, sublimely good, or awfully naughty
source, and which is subject to the will of the man.
Seventh Theory.—Notwithstanding he says he never knew or heard
these consonantal and vowel combinations before he uttered them, he
may be in some very mysterious way deceiving himself.
Eighth Theory.—That it may not be beyond human belief that he
is unconsciously in possession of a similar principle of intuitive
linguistic power said to be possessed at this day by the higher adepts
of India, or the Grand Lama of Thibet, or the Rosicrucians, by the
means of which an unknown language is spoken by purely intuitive
processes unknown to the analysis of western mental philosophy.
Ninth Theory.—That these consonantal and vowel combinations
and their intuitive vocal adjustments may be startling scientific hints
of mental forces latent in everybody, and which if studied, generalised,
verified, systematised, and seriously investigated by philosophers might
prove of incalculable benefit to the human race, but which could find
no encouragement for expression in the nineteenth century because of
the fierce and mocking intolerance of the conservative dogmas of the
age.
My instinct of self-preservation urges me to publish these theories
simply to assure those who have new ones that my larder is full for the
present, and I don't need them.
The foregoing " foreign" paragraphs are not all that were given by
any means, but I have given enough to indicate to the reader the
phonetic principle employed by the psycho-automatism in keeping me
in touch with itself, and in the " worked-up " condition essential to its
manifestation. When it ceased giving me prose, it gave poetry in
" unknown tongues." As the foreign verbiage came viva voce, I
pencilled it down, mostly in an archaic mono-phonetic form, and the
subsequent) blending into diphonetic and other forms was governed by
the principle of conjectural euphony. In the poems the number
of feet in a line was grasped by the recurring of the sound synonyms.
In a large number of cases where the letter c had the sound of s, I
used the letter s. In the foregoing paragraphs I occasionally used two
ee's to convey the long sound of a single e. In my later writing
down of the verbiage the sound of hard c was shown by the letter k.
294 Albert Le Baron.
As an illustration of the kind of poetry given viva voce by the
psycho-automatism, I append the following poem with its translation :—
Ede pelute kondo nedode
Igla tepete kompto pele
Impe odode inguru lalele
Omdo resene okoro pododo
Igme odkondo nefulu kelala
Nene pokonto sefo lodelu
Impe telala feme olele
Igde pekondo raog japate
Rele pooddo ogsene lu mano.
I have been looking, looking for daylight.
Ages have flown and the years have grown dark ;
Over the hilltops the sun is now shining,
Far from the sky comes the song of the lark.
Beauty is dawning, the darkness is passing,
Far up the vales fly the songs of the light.
Into the cities the joy will be spreading,
Into the by-ways the light will be spread ;
Glory has come to the lost son of man !
For me to quote the entire poem with the " foreign tongue "
precedent, would occupy no less than 272 lines. As a further
illustration, however, of the phonetic principle employed by the psycho-
automatism to keep me in a " worked up " state, I append a list of
foreign words from a note-book containing talks in " unknown
tongues " beginning the first weeks in October, 1894, and closing the
last week in April, 1895.
A very large per cent, of the words I subsequently traced in a
vocabulary of primitive Dravidian, or British Indian, non-Aryan
languages.
Aru, aar, ama, arde, adaba, asode, asopan, arirao, angora, barabu, bado,
bede, bete, beme, bere, belu, befo, belo, beja, beod, bepo, bela, bil'e,
butebon, bings, bode, bote, bola, bodo, bomo, bondo, boda, bobo, bolo,
bono, bood, brote, bume, boid, bute, bule, bulo, bubo, bubu, bulu,
blublu, buto, baba, beto, botu ; ce, cele, condo, comtin, compe, coere,
combo, crito, confebo, confo, cimbale ; dape, dara, de, debo, dede, defu,
defood, dako, dekon, dikeado, dekan, dege, debe, dole, dela, delu, dera,
depin, depe, deso, deme, delulu, delo, delu, delule, delute, demo, deog, depu,
derne, dinke, dinbe, dode, doig, dobo, doja, do'ine, domo, dolu, dope, dolo,
do'se, doog, dongo, dorure, dote, do'le, do're, do'ong, du, dudo, dudu,
dudedu, du'de, dububo, du'ing, dubudu, du'le, dubu, ducelu, duru, dubuing,
dutitu ; EE, EEE, erne, ede, ege, edu, elu, ese, ene, ele, ete, eis, eru, edko,
efrn, este, egle, egpe, eglu, erim, ebede, eklou, edda, edebo, edede, edebe,
edebu, emete, etepe, etutu, egotes, egtore, egsuro, egypto, esimpe, ecemete,
edelude, edelute, edeputo, ebedebede ; fara, fatu, fadumba, fapeme, falu,
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 295
fala, fano, fajo, fao, fape, fado, faton, fapa, fako, fakon, facre, faja, fale,
falute, falale, faidme, fase, faod, fare, faig, feme, feja, fele, fedon, fepo, felo,
fejo, feto, feno, felu, fekura, fetan, fekan, fela, feoglo, fekondo, feredo,
fiule, fole, foid, fola, fodo, folo, fote, fose, fode, fobo, fota, foja, fojs, fofu,
folo, foko, fopo, foso, foto, fope, foka, fomo, fondo, fore, food, fokon, fosan,
foigre, foloda, folecon, fosonko, fonoto, Male, fula, fuka, futu, fute, fuja,
fule, fupe, fulalo, fulela, fukodo, fulo, fure, fuma, futing, fupon, fukolo,
furo.
As the tracing out of the phonetic forms through the entire
alphabet would be a bore to any one but a linguist, the foregoing
may suffice for illustrative purposes. I visited other towns, and
received viva voce enough additional verbiage at the hotels I stopped
at to make several chapters. I abandoned my experiments about
the end of April, 1895. This was due to the fact, primarily, that I
could not, and did not substantiate the verbiage as an actual
language, although I could trace out a very large number of words
in actual use among the non-Aryan tribes of British India. Balfour's
" Cyclopaedia of British India " put me on the track of a number of
words, also Hunter's vocabulary of the non-Aryan tribes. That
there are some laws in mystic psychology not yet understood goes
without saying. That there exists some mental source, defined as a
psycho-automatism, with which man is capable under certain con
ditions of putting himself en rapport, has been abundantly proven by
the praiseworthy efforts of the Society for Psychical Research ; and
if my desperate plunge at the problem ended in a seeming negation,
it was not due to any lack of persistency on my part.
[At the General Meeting of the S.P.R. on April 24th, 1896, when
the above paper was read, Mr. P. W. H. Myers made the following
remarks upon the case, which, at Mr. Le Baron's request, are here
reprinted.—Ed.]
Mr. Le Baron's experiences are of especial interest as filling a gap
that had remained for some time open in the symmetrical series of
cases which show the progress of each class of automatic verbalisation
from insane incoherence to supernormal instructiveness. In each of
the other forms of verbalisation the series is already pretty complete.
In word-seeing we start from the meaningless and terrifying words or
sentences sometimes seen by the insane, as though written in 6re,
without them or within ; we pass through the stage of words seen in
the crystal with nothing to point to an origin external to the seer's
mind ; and we arrive at the supernormal phenomenon of the sight of
words in the crystal which convey facts previously unknown to the seer.
Similarly in word-hearing we start from the delusions of madness,
296 A Case of Psychic Automatism
when persecuting voices and the like are so often heard; we go on
to interna] auditions of a monitory kind, which may well proceed from
the auditor's own subliminal self ; and finally we come to those
" clairaudient " premonitions which imply the possession of a wider
purview than the automatist himself had ever—to his own supraliminal
knowledge—attained. For the third form of verbalisation,—word-
writing,—the continuous series from insanity to inspiration is by this
time still more familiar to readers of our Proceedings. In each case the
gradual development from phenomena below into phenomena above the
normal standard of personality seems to show that in these special
directions the personality is most easily modifiable ; and that subliminal
disturbances, whether dissolutive or evolutive, are apt to come to the
surface by these as their readiest paths. It is therefore only by a study
in each case of the actual messages given that we can rightly rank the
automatist, either as insane, or as merely a person in whom subliminal
uprushes are unusually facile, or as a man in some sense inspired with
fuller knowledge than other men, either by his own hidden spirit, or by
spirits without him.
In the fourth form of verbalisation,—word-utterance,—we have
until now mainly found examples of the lowest and the highest classes.
The ceaseless vociferation of mania is familiar to all ; and wonder is
often expressed at the vigour and persistency of the maniac's utterance,
—far surpassing the achievements of practised public speakers. Then
at the other end of the scale we have the utterances which come
through Mrs. Piper, in which (as fresh evidence makes increasingly
probable) intelligences other than Mrs. Piper's own are habitually
concerned.
But for intermediate examples,—for utterance neither insane nor in
any true sense inspired,—we have thus far had to fall back mainly on
old records. Chief of these have been the accounts of the Irvingite
speaking with tongues. Next, perhaps, comes a little-known work,
" Strange Sermons of Rachel Baker," which contains two cases of
sermonising utterance during apparently quite genuine sleep. I need
not say that " trance addresses " are quite a common feature in spiritist
reunions. In the very few cases where I have heard these public
addresses under supposed inspiration, I have felt sure that the speaker
was in full possession of his or her ordinary consciousness. But I think
it very probable that speeches may sometimes be genuinely made in a
trance state ;—which would, of course, be no more wonderful than it is
when a hypnotised boy at an entertainment lectures on temperance
and so forth, and remembers nothing about it when he awakes. The
trance may be a mere self-hypnotisation ; —and such, in the absence
from the speech of any facts unknown to the speaker, we are bound to
consider it.
A Case of Psychic Automatism. 297
But among all these strictly automatic vocalisations, neither insane
nor inspired, Mr. Le Baron's case is the fullest and most instructive. I
know no stronger example of the subjective sense of genius, or rather
of positive inspiration, accompanying a subliminal uprush of absolutely
meaningless matter. Some of this matter, indeed, was meaningless
even to incoherence,—consisting of " unknown tongues," which are
pretty certainly destined to remain unknown. One cannot but note,
with satisfaction at our present progress, yet with deep regret at the
sad story of the past, the different way in which these so-called tongues
were treated in Irving's time and in our own. Several, at least, of the
speakers with tongues in Irving's congregation were, I have no doubt,
perfectly sincere ; and Irving himself was, as all know, a man of
probity and elevation. Yet his ignorance—his unavoidable ignorance
—of the phenomena of automatism landed him and his flock first in
natural mistake, but at last in obstinate credulity, and spoilt the close
of a . noble and high career. In Mr. Le Baron's case, on the other
hand, the automatist himself had the courage and candour to estimate
his utterances in the calm light of science, in spite of strong subjective
inducement to continue to assign to them a value which they did not
possess. He had the good fortune, I need hardly add, to meet with a
wise and gentle adviser, and the phenomenon which, if differently
treated, might have led on to the delusion of many, and perhaps to the
insanity of one, became to the one a harmless experience, and to the
world an acquisition of interesting psychological truth. If our Society
shall continue thus to tend to convert enthusiasm into science and peril
into instruction, it will not have existed in vain.
F. W. H. Myers.
298 Professor Henry Sidgwiclc. [Supplement.
SUPPLEMENT.
i.
INVOLUNTARY WHISPERING CONSIDERED IN RELATION
TO EXPERIMENTS IN THOUGHT-TRANSFERENCE.
By Professor Henry Sidgwick.
In a pamphlet of 60 pages, published in Wundt's Philosophische Studien,
(Vol. XL, Part 4), Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen, of Copenhagen, give
the results of a series of experiments in what they call—the term seems
to me not quite exact—"involuntary whispering"; and on the basis of
these results, they endeavour to show that the apparent success of two
series of experiments in thought-transference of numbers, recorded in
these Proceedings (Vol. VI., pp. 128—170, and Vol. VIII., pp. 536—552),
may be explained by supposing the agent, Mr. G. A. Smith, to have un
consciously whispered the numbers. This explanation is in no way novel ;
in fact, attention was expressly called to it in the record of our first series
of these experiments, Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 164-6. We there speak of
it in the following terms :—
"It is necessary to examine the experiments dealt with in this paper
with anxious care, in order to see whether there was any possible channel
of sense through which the agent's impression could have reached the
percipients." We show briefly that "we are reduced to the sense of
hearing." Then we say, "There seem to be only two ways in which the
impression could have reached the percipient through his ears—either by
means of faint unconscious whispering of the number by Mr. Smith in the
effort of concentrating his attention on it, or by means of faint unconscious
counting of the number by breathing, or some other rhythmical movement
producing sound. ... Of the two suppositions, unconscious whisper
ing seems the less improbable, because the concentration of the mind on a
written or printed number, with a view to having as intense an impression
of it as possible, is found to cause a certain tendency to say the number
mentally, but no tendency to count it."
We had then in view "faint unconscious whispering" as the least
improbable explanation of our results, supposing that there was no genuine
thought-transference.
At the same time I fully admit that the experiments of Messrs. Lehmann
and Hansen have placed this probability in a new light.
That is, they have certainly proved experimentally—what, in our
discussion we could only surmise as possible— that a number of two digits
may be communicated from agent to percipient, by faint whispering with
closed lips, so that a bystander in a slightly less favourable position for
hearing than the percipient would hear no sound and probably observe no
external signs of movement of the organs of speech. I say "probably"
because so far as I have myself been able to imitate these experiments, I
Supplement.] 299
Involuntary Whispering.
should say that if the observer directed his attention to the neck and throat
instead of the lips, he could hardly fail to detect such signs ; but unless he
had the possibility of whispering with closed lips clearly in his mind, he
would probably consider it enough to watch the lips, and give no special
attention to the neck and throat.
I will briefly describe the experiments of Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen.
They placed two concave spherical mirrors opposite each other, the distance
between the two foci being two metres ; so that when the head of the agent
was in one focus and the head of the percipient in the other, the concentra
tion of the sound by the mirrors might be a substitute for the hyperaesthesia
which they supposed to exist in the hypnotised subjects of our experiments.
Under these conditions Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen attained a consider
able degree of success in hearing each other's (so-called) "involuntary"
whispering. It appears to me that "semi-voluntary" would be a better
term than "involuntary," because the experimenters were conscious of
giving way partially, but only partially, to the impulse to innervate the
vocal muscles which they found to accompany the concentration of thought
on a definite number. (I lay stress on this, because my own experience is
that I cannot consciously make an audible whisper which is in any degree
involuntary). In any case the mouth of the agent was firmly closed ; and
we are told that " no movements of the lips were visible, and a bystander
could not hear any sounds." The experimenters do not, however, give
any record of systematic observations by a bystander, or state where
he was placed ; they merely say generally that "all this was confirmed by
Herr Buch, an assistant of the laboratory, who was once (!) present at the
experiments." Accordingly, in performing a series of experiments in imita
tion of those of Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen—but omitting the apparatus
of mirrors—I paid special attention to this point. I found that it was quite
possible for an observer, fixing his gaze on the agent's mouth, neither to
hear or see any sign of a whisper at a distance of two feet from the agent, while
the percipient, at a distance which varied, but was ultimately extended to
18 inches—measured from the agent's mouth to the percipient's ear—heard
with sufficient distinctness to attain a considerable amount of success in
guessing. The whisperer in my experiments was sometimes my wife, and
sometimes Miss Johnson ; but I ought to say that in both cases—as also in
my own case when I made the attempt—the whispering was completely
voluntary ; we could none of us detect in ourselves the slightest tendency to
the semi-voluntary whispering described by Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen.
At the same time, with their experience before us, I must admit it to be
possible that Mr. Smith may have whispered unconsciously in such a manner
that—assuming hyperaesthesia in the hypnotised percipient—he might in
some cases have been heard by the percipient without being observed by his
fellow-investigators. I ought, however, to say that—as stated in Proceedings,
Vol.VI., p. 165—we found nothing to suggest that the percipients were ever
hyperaesthetic, though we were on the look-out for evidence of this. I must
say further that I see no reason for regarding it as at all probable that Mr.
Smith whispered unconsciously, since (1) his attention had been called to the
danger of doing so, and (2) his effort was concentrated on the visualisation
of the number ; and both these conditions must, it would seem, tend to
300 Professor Henry Sidgwick. [Supplement.
prevent involuntary whispering. Again, the experience of Messrs. Lehmann
and Hansen gives no ground for the supposition that unconscious whispering
is likely to be unperceived by the observers. On the contrary, Dr. Hansen
expressly says that "at first there was a tendency to whisper too loud,"
which had to be " half-consciously " checked; and, certainly, the process
of whispering with closed lips—which they ultimately adopted for the
experiments—is, according to our experience, a markedly artificial one,
which it requires some practice to carry out successfully. I may add that I
have lately made further experiments in thought-transference of numbers
with Mr. Smith without giving him any hint of my special aim in so doing ;
in which, besides listening close and attentively, I have concentrated my
visual observation on possible signs of movement in the submaxillary region,
where my other experiments had taught me to look for them ; and have been
unable to detect the slightest sign of a whisper. Nor was any sound of
whispering detected by Mrs. Verrall, who acted as percipient, and who had
practised herself in hearing the whispers of my wife and Miss Johnson.
Still, in spite of all this, unconscious whispering and hyperaesthesia
combined give a possible explanation of the results of our experiments, so far
as they were performed with agent and percipient in the same room : and
accordingly this, on our principles, would have to be accepted as the most
probable explanation, if experiments of this kind constituted the only
evidence for thought-transference. This I fully admit.
The contention of the Danish investigators, however, goes considerably
further than this. They endeavour, by an elaborate comparison of the
unsuccessful guesses in their experiments and ours respectively, to show
strong positive reasons for concluding that the same mode of communication
was operative in both cases.
This part of their argument appears to me quite inconclusive.
They made altogether 500 experiments, taking the parts of agent and
percipient alternately, so that each made 250 guesses. The experiments,
like ours, were made with numbers of two digits. The results are given in a
tabulated form in their paper, and we have reproduced their table at the end
of this paper as Table A. The results of our experiments, which they
compare with their own, were given in a similar table in Proceedings S.P.R.,
Vol. VI., p. 168.1 We reproduce the essential part of this table as Table B.
It shows how often each numeral (the two digits being counted separately)
was drawn, and all the guesses that were made for it. Comparing the two
sets of results, they endeavour to show that the same wrong guesses of one
numeral for another—which we will speak of as " substitutions "—occur in
both Tables, to an extent that renders it a probable inference that the same
cause—whispering—was operative in both cases. For this purpose, they
compare the four substitutions made most frequently for each numeral in
the two cases. The result2 shows that out of the two sets of 40 substitutions
thus compared, 28 are common to the two sets. (We will speak of these as
"correspondences.") This is, no doubt, an amount of agreement decidedly
in excess of what would most probably occur by mere chance. But a glance
at Tables A. and B. will show that the agreement is exaggerated. The four
1 They are reproduced in Dr. Lehmann's paper as Table V., p. 486.
2 This result is given in Dr. Lehmann's paper aa Table VI., p. 487.
supplement.] Involuntary Whispering. 301
substitutions most frequently made for each numeral are not determinate ;
as there are a good many cases in each Table in which two or more numerals
are guessed with equal frequency for another. In such cases of equality Dr.
Lehmann has uniformly made the selection most favourable to the conclusion
which he wishes to prove ; and I find that if the selection had been made on
the opposite principle, his total of correspondences would have been reduced
from 28 to 221. This much diminishes the impressiveness of his comparison ;
and its effect will, I think, be altogether destroyed by a simple empirical test
which our own experiments have enabled me to make.
Adopting Dr. Lehmann's plan of comparison, I have compared the
thought-transference experiments of Table B. with a series of experiments
in which we may assume that the guesses made were pure guesses and had
no relation whatever, other than accidental, with the numbers drawn. The
series thus used is the set of distant experiments with Miss B. mentioned in
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VIII., p. 547, which we have tabulated below in
Table C. In these, the agent and percipient were either in different build
ings or divided from one another by at least two closed doors and a passage.
The number of experiments tried under these conditions was 383 (that is,
766 digits guessed) and the successful guesses (about 11 per cent.) were
clearly due to mere chance. This series, compared with the thought-
transference series (Table B.) in regard to the substitutions made for each
numeral, gives a maximum number of 27 correspondences and a minimum
number of 25. If the maximum here is not quite so much above the average
as in the comparison of the series of Tables A. and B., the minimum is
more so, so that it cannot be said that the second comparison shows a less
close agreement between the two series compared than the first. Yet, as in
the series of pure guesses there was no transfer at all, the cause of the agree
ment cannot be that an identical mode of transfer operated in both series.2
So far, I have followed Dr. Lehmann in comparing the four substitutions
for each numeral which occur most frequently in the unsuccessful guesses
in the two sets of results. But I do not think the plan of comparison a
particularly good one ; because it requires us, in some cases, to include
substitutions which occur hardly oftener—or even in some cases less often —
than the average number of times ; and it does not seem reasonable to try to
infer a law governing the substitutions from those which do not occur
decidedly oftener than the average. Let us turn then, to enquire whether
1 1 observe that Dr. Lehmann himself— when comparing these experiments
with a set of numbers arrived at through imperfectly apprehended visual impressions
—treats 22 correspondences as a number which might not improbably occurby chance.
2 I need not go into the more elaborate estimate of probabilities given by Dr.
Lehmann on pp. 491—2, because the method used is fallacious. The improbability of
the fortuitous occurrence of a particular number and arrangement of the correspond
ences in question, is not in itself a measure of the probability that the cause was the
determination of the two series compared by a common mode of transfer. This can
be seen at once by taking an extreme case. It might happen that there were no
correspondences at all. The probability of this is, of course, extremely small, viz.,
(T|T)10. °r> using Dr. Lehmann's notation, i_ W210, but it would be obviously
absurd to say that therefore the same phonetic laws must have operated in determining
the two series compared.
302 Professor Henry Sidgwick. [S upplement
anything can be inferred from a comparison for each numeral of the one
most frequent substitution. The following table shows these substitutions :—
For
0
Substitutions in Whispered"!
series (A) /
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
5 3 5 5 7 5 5 3 4 5
Substitutions in Thought-\
transference series (B) .../ 5 3 2 3 6 7 2 3 3 3
Substitutions in series of\
mere guesses (C) /
3 5 4 3 6 5 2 5 3 3
Dr. Lehmann lays great stress (p. 490) on the fact that the most frequent
substitution is in five cases common to the thought-transference series and
the whispered series, namely 5 for 1, 3 for 2, 6 for 5, 7 for 6, and 3 for 8.
Two of these are, it will be observed, ambiguous, 6 and 7 being guessed with
equal frequency for 5, and 7 and 5 for 6 in the whispered series. Still,
without these there are three agreements. The apparent significance of this
is, however, neutralised when we observe that there are five similar
correspondences between the thought-transference series and the series of
mere guesses.
Another way of comparing would be to take, say, the ten substitutions
most often made in the whole of each series. These are as follows :—
Whispering (A) Thought ti.ansference (B) Mere guessing (C)
7guessed for 6, 20 times 3 guessed for 8, 26 times 6{juessed for 5, 18 times
S „ 6, 20 >» 2 SS ?> 3, 24 „ 4 is ss 3, 17 „
6 » „ 17 S> 5 S■ „ 1. 22 „ 3 SS SS 4, 17 „
5 ss „ 7, 15 S> 3 „ 4, 22 „ 3 ss ss 1, 16 „
3 Ss ,, 2, 13 3S 3 SS >S 2, 21 „ 5 ss ss 2, 16 „
5 ss „ 1, 12 » 1 Ss .. *, 21 „ 2 ss ss 7, 16 „
3 SS „ 8, 12 »» 2 SS ss Is 21 „ 1 ss ss 5, 15 „
8 SS „ 2, 11 a 3 SS „ 1, 20 „■ 5 ss ss 7, 15 „
4 SS 7, 11 SS 6 ss ss 6, 19 „ 5 ss ss s, 15 „
3 ■s „ 6, 10 SS 2 SS , 1, ]8 „ 6 ss ss 4, 141 „
1 Five other substitutions occur in this series 14 times. The one selected is that
which, taking into consideration both its line and its column, seems relatively the
most frequent. One of the remaining five, namely, 5 for 1, is common to both the
otherseries, and would therefore have made five correspondences between the thought-
transference series and the series of mere guesses.
supplement.] Involuntary Whispering. 303
Here we have four correspondences between the thought-transference
series and the series of mere guesses, and only three between the thought-
transference and whispering ; that is, again a larger number of correspond
ences with the series of guesses. It is clear, therefore, from all these
various ways of considering the matter, that the correspondence between
the substitutions made in the thought-transference series of Table B. and
the series of mere guesses is at least as close as that between the thought-
transference and the whispered series.1
Here I may be asked, " Have you no positive explanation of the amount
of correspondence found in the three series compared 1 " In answer, I
would suggest that it is due to a certain amount of agreement in the
"number-habits" of the percipients, i.e., their unconscious bias in favour
of particular numbers. In the three series that we have been discussing,
the prevalence among the erroneous guesses of certain numbers is marked.
In Table B, the numerals 3, 2, 5, 4, 6 are the five most frequently guessed
erroneously. In our series of mere guesses (C), the same numbers, in the
order, 5, 2, 3, 6, 4, are the favourites ; while in the whispered series of
Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen (A), 5, 3, 7, 4, are guessed above the mean
number of times, 2 coming next in frequency. Now, in the series of mere
guesses, this result can only be due to some subjective tendency in the
guesser to select by preference the favoured numbers ; and if so, we may
reasonably suppose that the same cause operated in the other two series.
And this is confirmed by an examination of the distribution of the erroneous
guesses. We find (e.g.) that 5—the numeral most frequently guessed
erroneously in the Danish table—is the most frequent erroneous guess for
1, 3, 4, 6 (ambiguously), 7, and 0. It is surely unreasonable to suppose that
the preference for 5 in all these cases is due to its peculiar phonetic affinities
with all the six numerals for which it is preferentially substituted ; we must
therefore attribute its frequency largely to "number-habit."2
1A similar comparison of Dr. Lehmann's and Dr. Hansen's guesses with each other
gives between the four most frequent substitutions for each numeral a maximum of
23 and a minimum of 1G correspondences ; between themost frequent substitutions for
each numeral in each series, three correspondences ; between the ten most frequent
substitutions in each series two correspondences and one ambiguous one ; so that the
agreement of these two series, which are arrived at by the same process, is not very
close.
2 Tendencies to guess particular numerals show various peculiarities. They are
different, for instance, with the same percipient for the two digits, and that obviously
independently of indications by hearing or otherwise. We have three different series
with Miss B., described in our Proceedings, Vol. VIII. ; one, a series of experiments
with agent and percipient in the same room, which was very successful ; the second,
the series with agent and percipient in different rooms, which is shown in a tabulated
form in Table D at the end of this paper, and which was moderately successful ;
the third was the series C, of which we have been speaking, in which there was no
success at all. Omitting in all cases the successes, we find that in each series Miss B.
named 1, 2, 3, and 5 above the mean number of times as a first digit (tens), and 3, 4,
6, and 8 above the mean number of times as a second digit (units). (They were not
always in the same order.) Eight never occurs above the mean number of times as
a first digit, nor 1 as a second, nor 0 or 9 as either. Our other percipients, P. and T.,
who were the percipients most concerned with the experiments of Table B. exhibit
considerable agreement. Both of them name 2, 3, and 4, above the mean number of
X
304 Professor Henry Sidgwick. [Supplement.
Further confirmation is given by my own experiments in whispering in
imitation of those of Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen.
For when we consider the favourite numerals in the unsuccessful guesses
in both sets of experiments, we find, at first sight, a certain amount of
agreement.
As the favourite numerals in my series are 5, 2, 3, 6—in this order,
while, as we have seen,
The favourite numerals in the Danish series are 5, 3, 7, 4 (2 coming
next).
But when we examine the exact substitutions in both cases, we find that
the agreement vanishes.
For in the Danish experiments, taken together,
5 is erroneously guessed most often for 6 (20 times out of 93)
and with next degree of frequency for 4 (17 times),
but for 3 only 8 times.
Whereas, in ray experiments,
5 is erroneously guessed most often for 3 (21 times out of 92),
next for 7 (20 times).
While it is only guessed 4 times for 6,
and only once (!) for 4.
This analysis seems to me to demonstrate clearly that the preference for
5 in both sets of experiments must be attributed mainly to "number-habit,"
and not to the similar operation of phonetic laws of substitution in the two
ets of experiments.
The only way in which such laws can be reasonably supposed to have
operated is in causing 5 to be guessed erroneously for 7.
This occurs, as was said, 20 times in my experiments,
and also 17 times in the Danish experiments (7 being next
in frequency to 6 and 4).
I find that in my experiments this tendency to guess 5 for 7 is found
entirely in the case of the first digit—50 is remarkably often guessed for 70,
but not 5 for 7.
I may observe that in my experiments 70 appears by far the hardest
sound to catch. It is only guessed correctly 8 times out of 49, while 50 is
substituted for it 15 times and 30 twelve times ; 7 is also a difficult sound :
it is only guessed right 11 times out of 40 ; but there is no preference for 5
as a substitute for it.
Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen have, of course, an entirely different
explanation of the agreement between the whispered series and the thought-
transference series. Dr. Hansen has made a very careful examination of the
numbers incorrectly guessed in the Danish experiments ; and he thinks that
in the majority of cases he can trace the error to some regularly operating
phonetic law, leading to that particular mishearing. It is, no doubt, a priori
probable that the incorrect guessing in the whispered series would be partly
traceable to such laws. At the same time—since the table appears to show
that almost any number was liable to be taken for any other, and since Dr.
times as first digits (tens) and 3, 5, and 7 as second digits (units). Drs. Lehmann and
Hansen seem to agree less well. Dr. Lehmann's greatest favourites are 5 and 3, and
Dr. Hansen's 5 and 7. We have no means of comparing their first and second digits.
Supplement.] Involuntary Whispering. 305
Lehmann and Dr. Hansen exhibited marked differences in the relative
frequency with which they made particular substitutions1—I cannot think
that the data are sufficient to establish empirically the large number of
phonetic laws which Dr. Hansen lays down.
It is, of course, easy for Dr. Hansen to show that in certain cases the
incorrect guesses in our thought-transference experiments are in accordance
with one or other of his numerous phonetic laws ; and, as he does not
attempt more than this, I think that—after the proof that I have given of
the failure of Dr. Lehmann's attempt to establish the general probability
that unconscious whispering operated in our experiments, —I need not enter
into a detailed discussion of Dr. Hansen's laws. But I may observe that his
whole treatment of our results appears to ignore the part that chance un
doubtedly played in producing them. The cause of the transfer of numbers,
—whether telepathy or whispering, or something different from either,—was
not always operative ; there were whole days when we had no success beyond
chance. It is of no use looking for laws of deviation when there is no normal
to deviate from, and on these completely unsuccessful days we must assume
that no impression of the real number reached the percipient, through his
ear or otherwise, and that, therefore, he could not mishear it. It is, there
fore, certain that those of our percipients' impressions which occurred on
these days were determined by chance. But it can, I think, be shown that
others were so too. Let us suppose that in a series of experiments, the
numbers of which both digits are guessed right are by some means—tele
pathic or other—transferred, but that no others are, the others being merely
chance guesses. Then, after taking out the complete successes, so far as they
exceed what chance would be likely to give, the remaining guesses would be
distributed by chance. There would be no half-successes, (i e., successful
guesses of one digit only, in its right place) beyond what chance would
produce. And that is what we actually find to be the case in our percipient
T.'s guesses of first digits, i.e., digits in the units' place.2 If the first and
second digits (tens and units) in T.'s experiments are tabulated separately,
we find that in second digits there are 51 successes in 246 guesses. But
30 of these successes belong to complete successes, leaving only 21 for
half-successes. By chance we should have expected about three complete
successes. If wo take out the other 27, we have 219 guesses, with 24
1 Apart from successes, there were only 458 single numerals to distribute
over 90 places, of which only 7 were left blank. The most numerous substitu
tions were 5 and 7 for 6, each of which occurred 20 times ; but whereas 7 for 6
was a substitution frequently made by Dr. Hansen, it was rarely made by Dr.
Lehmann —who, on the other hand, favoured the substitution of 5 for 6 considerably
more than Dr. Hansen did.
2 Dr. Hansen complains (p. 526) that we have adopted the coarse method of
tabulating first and second digits together instead of separately, bo that Dr. Lehmann
was obliged to do the same, and thus some substitutions are, in his view, less easily
explained than they might otherwise have been. I think the complaint somewhat
unreasonable. We have given a complete list of every number drawn and the
corresponding guess, so that Drs. Lehmann and Hansen could have tabulated them
in any manner convenient for their investigation. I am not surprised that they did
not think it worth while to do so. I only point out that they had the material there,
—which is more than we have as regards their experiments.
x 2
306 Professor Henry Sidgwiclc. [Supplement.
successes, and the most probable number of successes is -^L= 22. Apart,
therefore, from complete successes, there is really no indication of any
transfer in T.'s second digits. They appear to have been merely chance
guesses.1
A careful perusal of our paper in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VI., will
reveal other cases in which the percipient's impression was certainly deter
mined by causes entirely independent of the number drawn. It is, therefore,
certain that in a large proportion of the incorrect guesses of our Table B., it is
perfectly idle to search for exemplifications of phonetic laws.
To return : I hold, for the reasons above given, that Messrs. Lehmann
and Hansen have failed to furnish any positive evidence of the operation of
unconscious whispering in our experiments. I have, however, admitted
that their explanation of our results would still be the most probable one, if
our successful experiments in thought-transference had been confined to the
transfer of numbers with agent and percipient in the same room. But, as
our readers know, this is by no means the case. A strong reason for thinking
that unconscious whispering was not the cause of success in these experiments
lies in the success in the series described by Mrs. Sidgwick and Miss Johnson
in Proceedings S.P.B., Vol. VIII., pp. 536—596, in which the agent and
percipient (Miss B.) were in different rooms, separated by a considerable
distance and a closed door. The conditions are, we can assure Dr. Lehmann,
accurately described, and, as he admits (p. 493), it follows that if whispering
is the explanation of the success attained, the percipient on the one hand
must have had an almost fabulous hyperaesthesia of hearing and the agent
on the other must have whispered so loud that it is inconceivable that the
persons present should not have remarked it. He can only suggest that, as
sounds are differently audible at different points of a room, and sometimes
more audible at some point more distant from the source than at a nearer
one, it may have happened that the relative positions of agent and percipient
were favourable for hearing, while the relative positions of the agent and the
person with him were not. I think that this hypothesis is in any case
extravagant, considering the closed door, but it is rendered still more inad
missible by the fact that the percipient's position within the room was
intentionally often varied, and that the relative positions of the agent and the
person with him were varied also. And it will be remembered also that the
experiments succeeded in two different sets of apartments. I believe it to be
impossible that unconscious whispering can have been the mode of transfer
in these experiments.2
1 P. was about equally successful with both digits during the series of experiments
here discussed. Miss B. in the experiments in separate rooms (see Table D) had,
like T., practically no half-successes beyond chance in second digits, but was very
successful in first digits.
2 It may interest the reader,—though, after what we have said, it will be under
stood that we attach no particular importance to the fact,—to observe that a com
parison of the four most frequent substitutions for each numeral in this thought-
transference series with Miss B. (Table D.) gives, when compared with the series of
mere guesses (Table C), a maximum of 25 correspondences and a minimum of 24 ;
compared with the thought-transference series of Table B., a maximum of 25 and a
minimum of 22, and compared with the whispered series of Table A , a maximum of
24 and a minimum of 20. If we take the one most frequent substitution for each
supplement.] Involuntary Whispering. 307
Before leaving the subject of whispering, I will reply to one or two of
Dr. Hansen's remarks about our experiments. At p. 526, he complains that
we did not, in discussing the possibility of mishearing, distinguish between
first and second digits, and attributes this to our probably having formed the
conclusion beforehand that the appearance, and not the sound, of the number
was the important matter. Drs. Lehmann and Hansen quite mistake our
views about visual impressions,—but to that I will return later. In lumping
together in the Table the first and second digits, we were influenced by two
considerations. The first is that, if there was unconscious whispering, it is
impossible to know whether it took the form of whispering the whole
number as a number of two digits, or of whispering each digit separately.
The second method would naturally be suggested by the independent way in
which the two digits seemed generally to strike the percipients ; and it must
be remembered that Mr. Smith was consciously concentrating his efforts on
a vivid visualisation of the two digits ; in fact, he used to say sometimes that
he concentrated his mind first on one digit and then on the other. The
second consideration that led to our printing only one table was that, even
so, the number of experiments was too small in our opinion to enable us to
draw any very certain inferences as to the causes that may contribute to the
particular distribution, apart from the successes. The numbers are dis
tributed among 90 places, besides those occupied by successful guesses, and
we know that the distribution is at least in great part accidental, so that
there is not much margin left to work upon.
As Dr. Hansen points out, in thus combining first and second digits, we
have ignored the resemblance of "teen" and "ty" and the difference
between "three" and "thirty." The interchangeability of "teen" and
" ty " he regards as of great importance. If the first and second digits of our
experiments (complete lists of them are given in the paper in Proceedings
S.P.R., Vol. VI.) be tabulated separately on the same plan as the other
tables we have been using, the substitutions of "ty"for "teen "will be
shown by the first line of the table of first digits (tens). If specially liable to
happen, this substitution will lead to 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 being in the
aggregate often guessed for 1, and to a small number of correct guesses of 1.
On the other hand, the substitutions of " teen " for " ty " are shown by the
first column of the table, and, if specially liable to happen, will make the
substitutions of 1 for 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 in the aggregate relatively
frequent. It will be found that none of these things occur. One is not a
numeral which our percipients were specially successful in guessing correctly,
but it was about as often right as a first digit as it was as a second.1 If
numeral, we find that series D. has in common with each of the above series, taken in
the same order, two correspondences and one ambiguous one, four and one ambiguous
one, and one and one ambiguous one, respectively. The ten most frequent substitu
tions for each series have in common two, four, and one, respectively. By none of these
methods of comparison, therefore, is any marked agreement shown between series
D. and the whispered series.
1 In the experiments with Miss B. and the agent in different rooms (Table D.),
27 of the successful guesses of 1 occurred with first digits (tens), and only 16 with
second digits. "Teen" was guessed as "ty " only 11 times, which is much below
the average ; and *" ty " was turned into "teen " also below the average number of
times.
308 [Supplement.
Professor Henry Sidgwiclc.
therefore Dr. Hansen is right in thinking that interchanges of " teen " and
" ty " would be specially liable to occur when unconscious whispering is the
mode of communication, the argument, as far as it goes, is against the
hypothesis that whispering occurred in our experiments.
The special interest of the numeral 3 depends on its having been rather
often substituted for 8 in our experiments. As Dr. Hansen points out in
a foot-note, the resemblance in sound between "thirty" and "eighty" is
much greater than between "three" and "eight." But if our experiments
be examined, it will be found that the prevalence of 3 for 8 is, in the first
place, entirely due to one percipient, P. ; and in the second, that he makes
this substitution 1 1 times in the case of first digits (tens), and 10 times in
the case of second digits (units). In the case of both digits, it is the most
frequent substitution he makes, but its pre-eminence, compared to other
substitutions, is more marked in the case of the second digits. It does not
appear, therefore, that there is any force in Dr. Hansen's arguments to show
that, by tabulating together the first and second digits, we have obscured
the phonetic nature of the substitutions.
As I have said, I do not propose to discuss Dr. Hansen's explanations of
some individual experiments of our series ; since every numeral is sub
stituted more or less frequently for every other, it is clear that, whatever
the laws of phonetic interchanges may be, some apparent examples of them
must be found among our experiments. I will only point out that one
at least of his hypothetical explanations—twice repeated—is not tenable.
He suggests that the guessing of 0 for 7 is due to the resemblance of the
words " seven " and " zero." But the name of the numeral 0 is not "zero "
in English ; it is always spoken of as " nought " or "ought, " and there is no
resemblance between these sounds and "seven."
We have now to discuss from the point of view of visual impressions the
mistakes that were made. Dr. Lehmann attributes to us the opinion that the
thought of the agent called up directly visual images1 in the brain of the per
cipient by means of an at present unknown form of energy. Dr. Lehmann
has misapprehended our meaning. We did not intend to put forward any
theory as to the process of thought-transference : we were solely concerned
with establishing the fact that communications may pass from one mind to
another otherwise than through the recognised channels of sense.
The passage from which Drs. Lehmann and Hansen infer our theory is
the following2 :—" Eight mistakes were made twenty times or more. These
were : 1 guessed as 3 and as 5, 2 guessed as 3, 3 guessed as 2, 4 guessed as 1
and as 3, 7 guessed as 2 and 8 guessed as 3. Of these eight, only three
could possibly be explained by unconscious counting, viz., 3 for 2, 2 for 3, and
3 for 4. But of these, the two first might equally well be explained as results
of the kind of imperfect vision of the number so often complained of by the
percipients, and this is also the explanation suggested by the most prevalent
mistake of all, namely, 8 guessed as 3. And that this is the true explanation
1 Lehmann, p. 487. " Die genannten Autoren nehmen, wie wir gesehen haben,
an, dass die Gedanken des Absenders, vermittelat einer noch unbekaunten Form der
Energie im Gehirn des Empfangers direct Gesichtsbilder hervorgerufen haben."
(See also p. 479.)
^ Proceedings S.P."R., Vol. VI., pp. 169-170.
supplement.] Involuntary Whispering. 309
is further suggested by the fact that 3 is very seldom guessed as 8. For
though an 8 half rubbed out might resemble a 3, a 3 could not so easily be
converted into a badly seen 8, whereas with 2 and 3 the possibility of
mistake would be reciprocal ; an imperfect 2 might be mistaken for a 3 as
easily as a 3 for a 2. On the whole, therefore, we think that an examination
of the facts affords no support worth considering for the supposition—in
itself, as we have said, extremely improbable—of unconscious counting
hypenesthetically heard."
The suggestion here is that the errors, so far as they go, point rather to
defective externalisation than to defective transmission by counting. This
in no way implies the direct transference of a visual impression, though it is
not inconsistent with it. Our percipients in this series of experiments
almost always became conscious of the idea through what, in a broad use of
the term, may be called a visual hallucination. It was certainly more than
a mere mental image, and we only hesitate about calling it a hallucination
because the percipients generally had their eyes closed, so that we cannot
judge to what extent their number visions would have competed with the
visual sensations derived from external objects. But whatever name be
given to the species of their impression,—and this is discussed at some length
in the paper referred to, pp. 158-163,—there is no doubt, we think, that they
first saw the number and then thought of it, not that they first thought of it
and then saw it . They were not conscious of it until they saw it. This was,
as we state, probably due to our own suggestion. In later experiments
(Proceedings S.P.R. Vol. VIII.), the ideas were similarly caused to reach the
consciousness of the percipients through auditory hallucinations, through
automatic writing and through table tilting. But in none of these cases did
we suppose that the mode in which the percipient became conscious of the
idea threw any light on the question how it originally reached his mind. We
believed ourselves to have stated this clearly in our paper. It is almost
certain that the ideas sometimes reached the percipient through the ear, as
when P. and T. imitated each other's guesses ;—though, so far as we could
ascertain, they could not consciously hear each other, owing to being
hypnotised and not put en rapport with each other. " We must
therefore suppose " to quote our previous words (see Proceedings, Vol. VI.,
p. 164), " that sounds which fell unconsciously on the ear yet produced an
impression on the mind, of which the percipient became aware solely
through its reproduction in a visual form—a supposition which is, of course,
entirely in accordance with observations made by others." At other times,
as we have seen, the impressions seem to have been the result of pure
guess-work, or,—what is for practical purposes the same,—produced by a
variety of unrelated causes acting in opposition to one another. It is clear
that the impressions sometimes came from Mr. Smith's mind,—how trans
mitted, whether through the senses or telepathically, is the question at issue.
If telepathically, it may have been the name or the visual impression, i.e.,
the form, that was transmitted. But that there was direct transmission from
visual organs to visual organs is rendered improbable by the fact that the
process of perception by the percipient was identical, so far as we could
judge, whether the idea reached him from Mr. Smith, or orally from his
co-percipient, or was the result of his own invention.
310 Professor Henry Sidgivick. [Supplement
Our point was that, in the transmission of an idea to the percipient's
conscious intelligence, error may occur in two ways ; either through the idea
being imperfectly transferred (whether through the senses or telepathically),
so far as the process of transference takes place outside the percipient's
ordinary consciousness, or through being imperfectly externalised as a halluci
nation, which hallucination is then wrongly interpreted by the percipient's
conscious mind. Of such misinterpretations of hallucinations we have definite
instances, —instances where the idea that was intended to be communicated
to the hypnotised person was known, his description of the hallucination that
was produced by it heard, and also his conscious interpretation of that hallu
cination. Compare, for instance, P.'s post-hypnotic hallucinations of a vague
rhinocero-s when told to see a hippopotamus, of a figure which he called
" Buffalo Bill" when he was told to see Robinson Crusoe, and of what he
took for the Mayor when he was told to see Macbeth, and other similar
instances, both with P. and T. as percipients, in Mr. Myers' experiments
{Proceedings, S.P.R., Vol. VIII., pp. 459-462). Compare also P.'s appar
ently telepathically suggested hallucination of a choir-boy interpreted as a
ghost ( Proceedings, Vol. VIII., p. 565) and Miss. B.'s hallucination of a
sailing-boat, of which the sails at first suggested chalk cliffs (Proceedings,
Vol. VIII, p. 561). For a spontaneous case of a somewhat similar process,
—a memory picture called up by association, but only afterwards recognised,
—see Proceedings, Vol. X., pp. 143-4. Of course, the indistinctness of a
hallucination might be due either to indistinctness in the underlying idea,
as in the hippopotamus case above, or to imperfect reproduction of it in the
hallucination, as in one of Mr. Myers' experiments referred to above, when
T. saw horses with little things on their backs, but failed to recognise the
little things as monkeys. Whatever the cause, there is no doubt that the
hallucinations of numbers often were indistinct.
Drs. Lehmann and Hansen attempted to verify or disprove the
hypothesis that this indistinctness may have been the immediate cause of the
misnaming of the numbers, by experiments in which they read numbers
flashed rapidly before their eyes. The results are of some interest, but we
do not think the method affords any useful comparison with the kind of
misreading we have suggested, because the indistinct vision complained of by
our percipients was seldom that due to a momentary sight of the object looked
at, but rather that due to distance or want of definite outline, or partial
blotting out of the object (hallucination) itself. The hallucination usually
persisted long enough to be seen as well as it was capable of being seen.
We have discussed this subject of misinterpreted visual hallucinations at
some length, because what we said before seems to have been completely
misunderstood by Drs. Lehmann and Hansen. But though it is quite true
(in our opinion at least) that more evidence is afforded by our experimental
series for errors of this kind than for errors arising from the misinterpre
tation of unconscious whispering or counting, the evidence does not amount
to much, and it is not increased or supported by our later experiments.
A few words, before we conclude, about the observations of Drs. Lehmann
and Hansen on thought-transference experiments, conducted by means of
drawings. Certainly their own experiments, a certain superficial plausibility
notwithstanding, were not very successful. They made fifteen attempts in
Supplement.] Involuntary Whispering. 311
which the agent— Dr. Hansen—looked at a double number, and the
percipient, Dr. Lehmann, drew the picture of it which arose in his mind.
Of the results, six, comprising images of eleven separate numerals, at first
seemed to them successful ; but afterwards they concluded that the resem
blance was illusory. This second opinion I have no inclination to question :
undoubtedly there is a curious vagueness about Dr. Lehmann's figures
suggesting deliberate ambiguity on the part of his subliminal consciousness ;
and the moral drawn by him as to the need of caution in interpreting results
of this kind is undeniably sound, and useful to beginners.
But when Dr. Lehmann tries to apply the moral to the experiments in
thought-transference by means of drawings or diagrams recorded in our
Proceedings, he makes it evident that he has only given them a very partial
and superficial consideration. Thus (1) he selects Professor Richet's experi
ments in clairvoyance for comment when the subject under discussion is
thought-transference ; (2) he asserts sweepingly that the percipients were
most frequently hypnotised or hysterical : this being true of Professor
Richet's percipients, but not true in the case of the thought-transference
experiments with drawings described in our Proceedings. In these, none of the
percipients were hypnotised, and there is no reason to think that any of them,
except some of those who assisted Dr. von Schrenck-Notzing, were hysterical.
In view of these palpable inaccuracies, his assertion that the agreement
between original and reproduction in our experiments with drawings is
"usually" not better than in Professor Richet's experiments, may be fairly
set down to ignorance ; it is evident that he has never seen those given in
Vols. I. and II.—Mr. Guthrie's experiments,—or those in which Mr. Smith
was percipient and Mr. Blackburn agent : or, again, those conducted by Mr.
Rawson, and described in Vol. XI. This being so, his general conclusion
that the result of all the experiments hitherto carried on in thought-
transference in which the percipient expresses his thoughts in drawings can
without difficulty be explained by two causes—namely, accidental coincidence
and illusory resemblance—hardly deserves serious discussion. No one could
assert this with regard to (e. g.) the six consecutive reproductions given in
Proceedings, Vol. II., pp. 33—35 (see also Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I. ,
pp. 35-51).
We have taken the trouble to examine and estimate all the experiments
of this kind described in the Proceedings of the S.P.R., taking as a
standard those drawings which Colonel Taylor regards as resembling each
other in his "Experimental Comparison between Chance and Thought-
transference," Vol. VI., p. 398. Those which we estimate as successes,
we divide into three classes, as Colonel Taylor does. These classes are :—
1. Those which are alike in idea—that is to say, have the kind of
resemblance one would expect if the percipient knew the name of the
object the drawing represented, but had not seen the drawing. Instances
of this are the hand in Mr. Rawson's experiments, Vol. XI., p. 4,
and several others of his experiments,— or again, the cat in M. Schmoll's
experiments, No. 58, Vol. V., p. 180, when a rough sketch of a cat was
drawn by the agent and a cat's face seen by the percipient.
2. Those which are alike in shape. All successful experiments with
nameless diagrams come under this head, and so do some cases where the
312 [Supplement.
Professor Henry Sidgwick.
object drawn has a name, but has not been recognised by the percipient.
An instance of this is No. 11 in Proceedings, Vol. I., p. 193, where a
rough drawing of a horse's head is roughly reproduced, but not recognised.
3. Those which are alike both in idea and shape. As, for instance,
the pig in Mr. Rawson's experiments, Vol. XI., p. 4 ; or the fish or the
face in Mr. Guthrie's experiments, Vol. II., pp. 35 and 41. Simple
geometrical figures with names may, of course, easily come under this head.
See, for instance, some of Mr. Dessoir's experiments, Vol. V., pp. 355—
357. There are in all in the eleven volumes of the Proceedings 493
experiments with drawings described, or at least mentioned.1 Included in
the 493 are 24 cases in which it is stated that no impression was received
by the percipient, and 40 experiments with Mr. Guthrie's percipients,
performed in sets of 6 or 7, under conditions known beforehand to be
unfavourable, and which Mr. Guthrie thinks should not count. The follow
ing is the list :—
No. of Experi
ments.
Mr. Blackburn and Mr. Smith—Proceedings, Vol. I., pp. \
83—97, and pp. 175—216 (four preliminary and V
successful experiments on p. 163 omitted) ... ...J
Mr. J. W. Smith, of Leeds —Proceedings, Vol. II., p. 7..
and pp. 207—216
Mr. Guthrie, with the assistance at various times of Mr. ■n
Birchall, Mr. Hughes, Mr. R. C. Johnson, Professor
O. Lodge, Professor Herdman, Mr. Gurney, and others.
—Proceedings, Vol. II., pp. 31—42, and 189—200 ; Vol.
III., pp. 424—428, and 442. Phantasms of the Living,
Vol. I., pp.35—51. Only a small portion of Mr. Guthrie's
drawing experiments are given in detail in the Proceed
ings. We have, however, tracings of almost all the
drawings and reproductions, and have used them in
making our estimate ... ... ... ...
Herr Dessoir—Proceedings,Vol. IV., pp. 115—124, and Vol. j.
46
10
246
30
V, pp. 355-357
M. M. Schmoll and Mabire—Proceedings, Vol. IV., pp. 324 \ 104
—337, and Vol. V., pp. 169—195 and 208—215 ..J
Dr. Frherr von Schrenck-Notzing—Proceedings, Vol. VII., \ 26
pp. 3-22 >
Professor Lodge—Proceedings, Vol. VII., pp. 374—381 ... 16
Mr. Rawson—Proceedings, Vol. XL, pp. 1—17 15
Total, 493
Among these we estimate that both shape and idea were apprehended in
27 cases, the idea alone in 14 cases, and the shape alone in 82 cases—in all
1 In a few of these experiments, the original was a real object and the reproduction
a drawing, or the original a drawing which was verbally described by the percipient.
Supplement.] Involuntary Whispering. 313
123, or 25 per cent, of the total 493. Of course, as the reproductions are
in no cases quite exact copies, various persons would estimate some of them
differently, so that, though we have tried to maintain a certain standard, a
margin should be allowed for differences of opinion. We find, for instance,
what had escaped our memory when we made our own estimate, that Colonel
Taylor had made an estimate of the Smith and Blackburn drawings.
We count 16 successes, while he considers that there were only 13 successes
comparable to those in his chance series, and among these 13 he includes
2 which we do not count in our 16. There are, therefore, 5 of the 16
which he does not agree about. Let us assume that this is a normal
proportion of disagreement, so that about a third of our 123 successful
cases should be regarded as doubtful. Still we have 82, or about 17
per cent, of successes to compare with Colonel Taylor's 2 per cent,
by chance ; which last, moreover, would also probably be reduced if the
supposed coincidences were required to be approved independently by
several persons. In our total, also, we have included and counted as
failures every experiment mentioned, but of which we have not a sufficient
account to enable us to estimate it for ourselves. There are probably cases
where no impression was produced among these.
But this is not the whole strength of the case against chance in these
experiments. Those which we have not counted as successes are by no
means all failures. There are intermediate classes showing varying degrees
of resemblance to the original, or apparently representing part of the original
only. When, without being all good reproductions, a set of experiments is
such that if the originals and reproductions were severally shuffled up, they
would be re-arranged in their proper pairs by a person seeing them for the
first time, as is, for instance, the case with all or almost all the Blackburn
and Smith series, this cannot be due to chance coincidence. Nor is it con
ceivable that series like Mr. Rawson's and Mr. Smith's of Leeds, or, as we
have already said, Mr. Guthrie's on some days, should be accidental.
Dr. Lehmann thinks that, to avoid vagueness or ambiguity, the originals
in experiments of this kind should represent definite objects or figures with
names, which the percipient should be required to give. But supposing his
own experiments in seeing numbers had been successful, would not he in
the light of his later experience have been the first to say that his success
was due to unconscious whispering by Dr. Hansen 1 It was to avoid the
possibility of indications of this sort, conscious and unconscious, that the
plan of trying to transfer nameless geometrical figures was adopted. In
experiments in clairvoyance like Professor Richet's, where the drawing to
be reproduced is unknown to all present, it would no doubt be desirable to
use very clear and definite figures which could be named ; as has been already
pointed out by Miss A. B. Balfour in a careful criticism of Professor Richet's
results (see S.P.R. Journal for December, 1888. Vol. III., p. 348). But in
thought-transference experiments with agent and percipient in the same
room, there are obvious advantages in making some of the experiments with
nameless figures. Nameless figures may, no doubt, be sometimes trans
ferred by unconscious movements appealing to the sense of touch, for which
reason contact should be avoided ; but it is hard to conceive of their being
conveyed by unconscious—or, for that matter, even conscious—auditory
314 "Professor Henry Sidgwich. [Supplement.
indications. Nameless figures afford, too, the best evidence that form may
be transferred apart from any other qualities or associations ; and therefore,
granted the reality of thought-transference, constitute an important part of
the data for forming an idea of the nature of the process.
To sum up, we conclude that, interesting and instructive as the paper of
Drs. Lehmann and Hansen is, and useful in giving practical illustrations of
certain dangers to be guarded against, they have not shown that either
chance, illusion, or unconscious whispering will account for the evidence
for apparent thought-transference afforded by experiments in reproducing
drawings and guessing numbers, described in the Proceedings of the Society
for Psychical Research.
Supplement.] 315
Involuntary Whispering.
TABLES.
Table A.
Messrs. Hansen <fc Lehmann.
Table B.
Experiments in Thought-transference
(reprinted from Proceedings,Vol.VI., p. 168).
Guessed as. 1 Guessed as.
Nume
rals
drawn
Totals
drawn
Nume
rals
drawn
7 8 Totals
drawn
1 1 2 3 1 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 6 6 9 0
91 43 18 17 22 164
45 6 4 6 12 1 4 3 7 1 211 13 10 13 6 S
2 - 60 13 6 6 4 7 11 6 1 114 2 10 64 21 12 8 9 6 8 8 4 140
109 3 14 24 64 11 7 9 163
3 - 2 81 3 8 4 4 4 1 5 16 13 11 5
163
5 6 17 - 3 119 21 16 22 13 3
4 6 6 71 6 5 1 4 62 10 11 6 9
3 6 5 6 74 7 7 1 1 - 110 5 7 9 12 16 36 19 7 8 7 3 123
6 2 2 10 6 20 38 20 3 3 - 104 6 12 11 12 12 11 46 14 13 3 3 137
7 8 9 7 11 15 8 4 6 112 7 13 21 13 U 16 16 40 8 4 2 143
44 1
71 4 111 7 26
8 4 fi 12 3 3 3 6 1 8 11 13 13 12 14 34 7 5 142
90 70
9 5 6 8 9 6 5 4 7 3S 2 9 4 6 11 2 6 3 6 6 19 9
0 3 3 1 6 2 6 3 - 17 40 0 7 6 10 8 9 7 8 2 6 19 82
Totals
guessed 79 Totals
guessed 171 1327
101 148 1C7 72 112 1000 142 201 147 78
122 105 68 2( 164 148 126 106 55
Table C.
Series of mere guesses.
| Nume
rals
I drawn
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Guessed as.
J Totals
Iguessed!
912
1217
17
12 14
10
10
911
3
m 107 110 88 122 99 72,78
1612
12
151015
1613|
4
7
612
7
4
8 12
20
Totals
drawn
78
84
82
82
119;
72
84
86
88
40
760
Table D.
Experiments with Miss B., Agent and
Percipient in different rooms.
Nume
rals
drawn
1
2
3
4
6
6
7
Totals
Iguessedj
Guessed as.
112(31415
6
(i
1014
0
2
2
7|16|1613
44
90 89 69 62i98 108 63 85 10,
7
5il0
11 18
1011
Totals
drawn
316 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
n.
RECENT EXPERIMENTS IN NORMAL MOTOR AUTOMATISM.
By F. W. H. Myeks.
Two articles of much interest to students of automatism have recently
been published in the Psychological Review (Macmillan). In July, 1895,
appeared a paper on "Experimental Induction of Automatic Processes,"
by Professor Newbold, of Philadelphia—a valued contributor to these
Proceedings. In September, 1896, among Studies from the Psychological
Laboratory of Harvard University, appeared a paper on "Normal Motor
Automatism," by Leon M. Solomons and Gertrude Stein, describing certain
experiments on the early stages of such automatism, conducted with a
care and ingenuity worthy of that distinguished psychological school.
I purpose first briefly to point out the relation in which these papers
stand to views previously set forth in these Proceedings, and then to pass
on to one or two reflections of wider scope, which the new experiments
suggest. In Vol. II., (Part VII., November, 1884), of these Proceedings,
will be found a paper "On a Telepathic Explanation of Some So-called
Spiritualistic Phenomena," in which I attempted a first imperfect analysis
of certain motor phenomena which, until that time, had excited little or no
attention, except from those who saw in all automatic writing the direct
action of spirits of the dead. Dealing in that paper with the earlier and
simpler types of these phenomena, I there urged (pp. 222—6) that the
" graphic automatism of mental abstraction " was often a normal and not a
morbid thing : ' ' simply an extension of the tricks of unconscious action,
which to some extent are common to every one." Speaking of Greek words
'' unconsciously scribbled on the edge of composition papers in the nervous
ness of examination," I said that "in this case it is the strong concentration
of the current of attention elsewhere, which allows the writing faculty to
manifest itself automatically,—permits, that is to say, the unconscious
cerebral action to discharge itself along the well-worn track which leads to
the formation of written words. "
It is this view of the connection of motor automatism with normal
processes which these newer writers strongly, and, as it seems to me,
convincingly support ;—a fact the more interesting since I do not think,
judging by internal evjdence, that my own paper—written at a time when
our Proceedings reached a smaller public than they now reach—has fallen
under the notice of either author.
"I am now convinced," writes Professor Newbold, "that in many
cases the writing is produced precisely as these sensory processes are
produced—by the continuous application of an indeterminate stimulus to the
highly organised writing mechanism." Precisely so ;—and the previously
cited instance of verse-composition, with mind fixed on the idea of writing,
seems a good illustration of this " indeterminate stimulus."
Supplement.] Experiments in Motor Automatism. 317
Mr. Solomons' paper affords a confirmation,—which, as I have said,
should be absolutely convincing for those who accept his account of himself
and his collaboratrix as "representatives of the perfectly normal, or perfectly
ordinary being, so far as hysteria is concerned, "—of a thesis which I have
from the first urged as very important, but which has been called in question
by high authorities (see Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 470-472). I mean the
thesis that there does exist a "Normal Motor Automatism;" that the
so-called " disaggregation of personality" which produces automatic script
may be cultivated without injury (if proper care be taken) by perfectly
healthy persons of either sex. These two students taught themselves to read
aloud unconsciously, and to write from dictation unconsciously, to write
words of their own unconsciously—to perform, in short, to perfection various
automatic tricks ;—and yet at the end of (apparently) weeks of it they were
not a penny the worse,—were even more scientific and even less hysterical
than when they began. Their paper should become a locus classicus on this
important question of the cultivation of motor automatism by sound and
normal persons.
The task which they set themselves was an ingenious one. They aimed
at reproducing, in a waking state of complete normality, "the essential
elements of the second personality, so far as they consist of definite motor
reactions unaccompanied by consciousness," "or," they politely add, "shall we
say, out of deference to the subliminal consciousness theory, unaccompanied
by conscious consciousness." "These elements" they continue, "appeared
to us to be conveniently considered under four groups, as follows :—
" 1. General tendency to movement without conscious motor impulse.
" 2. Tendency of an idea in the mind to go over into a movement in
voluntarily and unconsciously.
" 3. Tendency of a sensory current to pass over into a motor reaction
sub-consciously.
" 4. Unconscious exercise of memory and invention."
The first three of these elements they exemplified with great distinctness.
They approximated, probably more nearly than waking experiments have
ever done, to those phenomena of dissociation of the writing and the reading
processes, and of either of these from normal memory, on which Mr. Edmund
Gurney recorded so many experiments in his papers on "Peculiarities of
Certain Post-hypnotic States," and "Stages of Hypnotic Memory," (Pro
ceedings, Vol. IV., p. 268 and p. 515.) And in the course of these
experiments—not being hypnotised, but alert and accurate—they made
observations well worth study on the fluctuations of attention and con
sciousness.
As to the fourth element—"unconscious exercise of memory and inven
tion "—they were perhaps less successful. Their best " writing from
invention" seems to have consisted in the following sentence,—described
(somewhat euphemistically) by Mr. Solomons as " more poetical than
intelligible " ;— When he co\dd not be the longest and thus to be, and thus to be
the strongest. Perhaps if their poetry had been stronger their paper would
have been longer.
"That the second personality," says Mr. Solomons after summing up his
main results, '' shows, in general, no abilities beyond this, will, I think,
318 [Supplement.
F. W. H. Myers.
generally be admitted." I certainly admit, and have often asserted, that the
bulk of automatic messages,—including the first scrawls of a planchette, and
the first tiltings of a table,—are much on this level. But certainly neither
Professor Janet, (to whom I think allusion is made) nor myself ever regarded
utterances of this type as indications of the formation of a secondary
personality. They are, as I have frequently said, precisely parallel to the
scrappy words which float through one's mind in a moment's doze. A new
personality is no more formed in the self by these little spurts of fragmentary
independence than a new party is formed in the House of Commons whenever
an honourable member cries " Oh ! oh ! "
The formation of a new personality, as of a new party, depends upon the
number of psychical or parliamentary units which cohere, and the length of
time for which they remain coherent. It may range from an ideefixe—which
is a mere knot of fanatics—to a coalition which overturns the government,
as when Felida X.'s second personality dethroned her first. It is often a
question of words at what point the term should be first applied—what
degree of independent, intercurrent, persistent memory, altered faculty and
diathesis, is needed to make one feel that here is a true psychical
dimorphism, a second mould into which the plastic life of the intelligence
might equally well have run.
The experimenters of whom I have been speaking here paused just
beyond the threshold of the enquiry. The true, the important difficulty of
classification occurs (as Professor Newbold, at any rate, knows well) at a
later stage altogether. It occurs when the intruding type represents no
longer a partition merely, or an allotropism, but something superadded and
supernormal, something which seems to lie beyond the native scheme and
scope of man. There is the point where previous beliefs or disbeliefs are
rudely tested. In the case of Mrs. Piper's trances, for instance,—nay, in
cases which in strangeness fall far short of hers,—we may some day see the
conservative critic driven to cling to this very hypothesis of secondary
personalities ;—to stretch to breaking-point the conception of a subliminal
self. For what else would have to be admitted would be more perturbing
still.
Problems such as these should be slowly and carefully approached. In
the mean time there is a real satisfaction in the thought that the younger
generation of experimental psychologists are entering upon a line of
investigation from which some of them, I doubt not, are destined some day
to reap a rich reward of discovery. Only let them follow fearlessly wherever
truth may lead, and beware of preconstructing from too few factors their
formula for the Sum of Things.
Supplement.] 319
Reviews.
III.
REVIEWS.
Predvestniki Spiritizma za poslednie 250 lyet. (The Precursors of Spiritism
for the last 250 years.) By A. M. Aksakoff, St. Petersburg, 1895.
It is perhaps hardly fair to quote Mr. AksakofFs title without his
sub-title. He must now be almost, if not quite, the doyen of Continental
Spiritists, and no man is better qualified to write a history of the
movement, and at the first glance we might hope to have such a history
here. To prevent disappointment, therefore, it is well to say at once
that he does not profess to give more than ' ' Published Cases of Spontaneous
Medianic Phenomena from the year 1661, and the transition to Experi-
mentalism in 1848."
It follows that much of the present work is but a translation into
Russian of cases with which the English student is familiar. We need not
deal here with Glanville or the Wesleys, with Tedworth or Hydesville, nor
even with the recent report of the Continental observers of Eusapia. But
two of the cases recorded, though previously published in one form or
another, are inaccessible to western readers, and for different reasons deserve
to be made more widely known.
The first occurred in a small Russian village, and, by the happy accident
that it resulted in damage to Government property, became the subject of
an official enquiry of an obviously unprejudiced character. Mr. Aksakoff
has published verbatim, without comment, the whole of the official papers,
including the depositions of all the witnesses. From these I have compiled
a connected narrative. The other case does not enjoy this almost unique
" objectivity " of record ; but the facts stated are certainly among the most
remarkable of their class, and, in spite of obvious deficiencies in the
testimony, are sufficiently in analogy with other cases to deserve attention.
In January, 1853, a small cavalry post (£tape) at the hamlet of Liptsy,
in the Government of Kharkoff, was commanded by a Captain Jandachenko,
who, with his wife, lived in a small four-roomed house, which had been
taken by the village community for his official residence. It had previously
belonged to peasants, in whose time nothing abnormal had occurred in it.
It seems, indeed, that in the beginning of January, 1852, something
mysterious had happened there, but, as this is only casually alluded to by
one of the witnesses, we must pass on a year, to January 9th, 1853,
when the present history opens.
On that day it appears that the house was occupied by Captain Janda
chenko and his wife, who had a bedroom and sitting-room on one side of
the passage ; on the other side was a store-room and the kitchen, in which
the servants also slept. On this evening there were five of them, two maids
named Efimia and Matrona, the latter hired, the former a serf of the
y
320 [Supplement.
Walter Leaf.
captain's, and three soldiers, one of them, Vasili (Basil), being the captain's
orderly, and the other two attached to him temporarily.
After the servants had put out the light, but before they had gone to
sleep—such is the account which they give without variations—sundry
small objects, such as cups and wooden platters standing on the stove, were
thrown about the room. A light was struck, but the throwing continued
when no one was looking, and no cause could be found for it. Next day,
the 5th, Captain Jandachenko mentioned this to his parish priest, Victor
Selyezneff, who came with his church officers on the 6th, the Epiphany,1
after the ceremony of blessing the water in the river. "On entering the
house," he says, " I saw a small stone fall in the passage ; a cup full of
dumplings fell at my feet in the midst of the attendants who were carrying
the icons, and I heard repeated knocks." Captain Jandachenko adds that
after the house had been sprinkled with holy water—the object of the
priest's visit— " an axe was thrown from the loft in the passage against the
doors with remarkable velocity and noise." Another priest, Father
Lobkovsky, whose curiosity had been aroused by what he had been told
during the blessing of the river, was also present, with several other official
visitors to the captain. They went into the kitchen, when, '' in the sight of
all of us, there was smashed against the door in the passage, where no human
being was, a bottle of varnish, which, according to the captain, had been
standing in the sitting-room cupboard under lock and key." Moreover, a
soldier reported—though this, as we know, is "not evidence"—that a tub
full of vegetables in the cellar had left its place and upset its contents.
Undaunted by the small success of the aspersion, the good priests
brought the heavy artillery of the church into play next day. With the
assistance of a third father, of the church officials and the icons, a solemn
service was read. Hardly had they begun, when a stone was thrown in the
kitchen, which was empty, and smashed a window in the sight of all. Then
a piece of wood, followed by a pail of water, flew out of the kitchen into
the midst of the assembly, the latter upsetting in the midst. The culminating
horror was the fall of a stone into the basin of holy water itself. The house
was again thoroughly sprinkled, and the holy objects carried back to the
church ; but as the phenomena still continued, the captain begged two of
the priests to return and read the formal prayers for the exorcism of evil
spirits.
This seems to have had little more effect than the previous service. The
phenomena continued in the presence of several fresh witnesses, and on the
8th took a new turn. The bed in the room of the captain and his wife
caught fire in the presence of both ; they put it out, but it immediately
blazed out in a fresh place, and had to be again extinguished. At the same
time two blows were struck on the window by a brick, and four panes of
glass broken. Captain Jandachenko was at last driven to change his
quarters, but moved back after a few days. At the same time he again had
recourse to the services of a priest, which for the time were successful,
1 There seems to be some discrepancy in the evidence here ; the Captain seems to
say that the priest's first visit was on the 5th, while Father Selyeznen" himself says
that he did not go before the 6th.
Supplement.] 321
Reviews.
as the phenomena were now reduced to nothing worse than some ' ' human
groaning " of a most doleful description, heard by the servants in the
kitchen.
But after a few days it all began again ; and on January 22nd Captain
Jandachenko brought some friends in to witness what was going on. On
this occasion the orderly, Vasily, was slightly wounded in the head by a
knjfe thrown by the evil agency. Things grew worse and worse, and a
number of peasants were brought into the house to watch : but, in spite of
all care, next afternoon (the 23rd) the roof of the house caught fire and was
burnt off, the efforts of the firemen being much hindered by a peculiarly
thick and malodorous smoke blown in their faces. This led to an inquiry
by the local ' ' ispravnik " (head of the district police), which took place on
February 4th and 5th.
The evil spirits yielded for a time to government interference ; and
though, as appears from the very full report of the evidence, nothing was
found to direct suspicion against any one, all was quiet for some months.
Captain Jandachenko had in the meantime permanently removed to another
house, and here, on July 23rd, the old games began once more. In one
room the pillows were thrown off the beds, in another jars of water were
upset The captain at once applied officially for help, and again a guard of
peasants was set all about the house. In vain ; things were more lively
than ever through the 24th, and in the morning of the 25th the most
serious troubles of all began. At eight o'clock the thatched roof was
suddenly found to be on fire. It was extinguished before the fire-engine
came, but for precaution engine and firemen were kept on the spot. At
three o'clock in the afternoon thick smoke was seen coming from a shed in a
wing of the house. A soldier crawled in on hands and knees, and dragged
out a hay mattress full of smouldering fire, which was put out. Finally, at
five o'clock a sudden gust of wind arose, and with it the whole roof of the
wing burst into flames. The fire spread so rapidly that the men not only
could not start the engine, but had great difficulty in dragging it into a place
of safety ; and with the captain's house four neighbouring cottages were
completely burnt to the ground.
This serious damage of course led to a renewed enquiry, in the course of
which most of the inhabitants of the village as well as of the house seem to
have been examined. This lasted for five days, from July 27th to 31st,
after which, no result having been arrived at, the matter was transferred to
the civil court at Kharkoff, where it was duly pigeon-holed. It was only
after repeated enquiries, and at last after vigorous representations from
headquarters, that the final inquiry was held in July 1856, three years after
the events. The evidence previously given was duly recapitulated, and the
only decision given was to the effect that there was no suspicion to be traced
against any one. There the matter was left till Mr. Aksakoff published the
documents in extenso.
Naturally the enquiry is more remarkable for impartiality than for
intelligence. It was recognised that the kitchen was always the focus of
the " evil force, " but so little effort was made to connect the phenomena
with any particular person that it is very difficult, often impossible, in spite
of the voluminous depositions, to discover exactly who was present on any
322 [Supplement.
Walter Leaf.
particular occasion. The evidence of the captain's wife, an important
witness, one would think, seems never to have been taken. With a some
what wider experience of similar cases, we naturally look at once to the
servant maid Efimia. She, at least, was in the house during both periods of
activity, which the other maid, Matrona, apparently was not. The orderly,
Vasily, may have had his share ; it is remarkable that the second outburst
in July exactly coincided with his return to the house after a spell in
hospital. But he came only for a day or two, and reported himself again in
Kharkoff on the 24th, the day before the three fires, with which, therefore,
he can have had no direct concern ; the fact that he was wounded on
the first occasion can hardly be said to tell one way more than the other.
However, if Efimia was the actual criminal, she must have attained a
creditable degree of skill to carry on her mystifications in daylight, often
under the eyes of a whole crowd of people, without arousing the least trace
of suspicion in the breast of a Russian police officer.
The second case to which I have referred is one of a more complicated
and startling sort. It was never subjected to a similar enquiry, but on the
other hand it had the advantage of investigation during a considerable period
by apparently intelligent sceptics ; and it is somewhat less remote in time, so
that Mr. Aksakoff has been able to make enquiries and give information as
to the credibility of the witness on whose evidence the phenomena are given.
The whole story appears to have been widely known in Eastern Russia at
the time of the occurrences, and was warmly discussed in the local papers.
The narrative is given in the words of Mr. Shchapoff, a country gentleman
living in a house some 20 miles from Iletski, in the government of Uralsk,
not far from Orenburg. In the following I give a much compressed outline,
as far as possible in his own words :—
" On November 16th, 1870," says Mr. Shchapoff, "I returned to my
house from Iletski, a town some 30 versts away. My household consisted
of my mother and mother-in-law, two ladies each aged about 69, my wife, a
little over 20, and our infant daughter. My wife at once told me that they
had had no sleep for two nights on account of certain strange disturbances.
I was at first inclined to laugh, till I found that my wife was in earnest, and
heard from her the following narrative.
" On the night of the 14th the infant had been peevish, and in order to
quiet her, our cook Maria had been sent for to play the harmonica and
dance to her. This sent the child to sleep. My wife then sat with a
neighbour, the miller's wife, and was chatting with her, when the latter
suddenly started up in alarm, but immediately begged my wife not to be
afraid, explaining that she had suddenly fancied that some one was passing
the window. Presently they both saw a shadow flitting past outside, and
were about to go out to see what it was, when they heard in the loft over
their heads the sound of dancing, exactly similar to that of Maria, and
clearly recognisable by the characteristic rhythm of a difficult ' three-footed '
(double-shuffle ? ) figure which she had been performing. They thought
that Maria was practising, till they found her asleep in the kitchen, the steps
overhead still continuing. The girl immediately took a light and searched
the loft, but without result. Meanwhile the two ladies heard loud raps on
the window panes. They got the miller and the gardener to look round the
Supplement.] 323
Reviews.
house ; but nothing was found, and during the search both the raps on the
window and the dancing overhead continued till morning and kept the house
awake. Precisely the same thing began at ten o'clock the next evening, in
spite of a thorough search of house and ground by the whole force of
domestics and neighbours.
' ' I saw the miller, who confirmed this account, but added that he had
found under the cornice and cleared away a pigeon's nest, which he thought
might be the cause of the noises. I was satisfied by this explanation, and
gave my wife a lecture on her superstition, put the whole thing out of
my head, and sat down after tea to read Livingstone's Travels in Africa.
Through the glazed doors which separated our rooms I heard my wife and
child go to bed. All was quiet ; I read with interest for some two
hours, when I heard, as though from the ceiling, a sort of vague scratching.
I thought the dog had got into the loft, when presently the sound changed
to the unmistakable " three-time" of the dance. It ceased and began again ;
I could distinctly localise the place in the ceiling, over my wife's bed. As I
listened, trying to understand, I heard a rap on the window of my wife's
room, a dull rap, as though with the flesh of the finger on the window frame.
After a few seconds the rap became clear, like the sound of a finger-nail on
the pane. I went to look through the glazed door of my wife's bedroom, and
suv by the night-lamp that she was fast asleep in bed. Just then came
another rap, much louder, as though impatient ; it awoke my wife, who looked
about her, and asked me if I heard. In reply I asked her if she had not
been rapping. As though in answer to my question, there came a rap on the
window beside my own bed. I rushed to it, and looked out into the yard,
which was brilliantly lighted by the moon. I could see no one. I concealed
myself behind the window, and held my breath, hoping thus to catch the
offender ; suddenly two deafening blows were dealt the outer wall close to my
ear, so violent that the house shook as though with an earthquake. I
involuntarily jumped away, my wife called out " There ! It has begun
again ! " and began to pray. I took my great-coat and gun, sent the cook
for the gardener, went out, and called the dogs. Neither they nor I could
find any traces, though the night was as clear as day, and perfectly still.
There were no marks on the snow beneath the windows where the raps
had been heard. While we were outside we distinctly heard blows on wall
and window ; when we returned with empty hands, those who were in the
house asked us if we had not been making the noise from without. All this
time the scratching and dancing over our heads continued. We searched the
loft with lamps and lanterns ; while we were in it not a sound was heard, but
as soon as we returned to the room beneath the noises began again.
" After a sleepless night we spent the day in a thorough search of the loft ;
all in vain. When the night came, things were worse rather than better.
The house was crowded with neighbours, yet the sounds on windows and
walls went on very loudly, resembling in character the beating of a drum.
Other phenomena occurred, for instance a loud dull noise in the passage, as
though a heavy sack of flour had been thrown down from the loft. We
rushed, out to see what had happened, and had hardly closed the door behind
us when it received such a violent blow that the solidity of the hinges
seemed to be severely tried. In neither case could we find any cause.
324 [Supplement.
Walter Leaf.
' ' Next day the phenomena were much less violent, and in a day or two
they ceased entirely. I spoke to my friends about them, and during a visit
from one of them some weeks later, on December 20th, we determined to try
an experiment by getting Maria to repeat the dance with which all had
begun on the former occasion. To our surprise, as soon as she had gone
through a few turns of the dance, raps began on the window-pane. They
confined themselves to rapping out the rhythm of the seven bars of the
dance, finishing each time with two or three louder blows. This ceased at
midnight. Next night the raps began without any preliminary dancing at
all, combined with a strange dull sound which we agreed came from the
chimney of the stove. Then objects lying on the ground, such as boots and
slippers, began to fly through the air, up to the ceiling, or against walls or
doors ; they were sometimes observed to give a sort of hiss as they flew.
But the strangest thing was that when they fell on the felt-covered floor,
they made a sound which did not belong to them ; for instance a piece of
stuff from the bedclothes fell with a sound like a hard heavy body, whereas
hard bodies fell with no sound at all. The phenomena grew gradually weaker
and then ceased.
" Ten days later we had a party of friends to see in the new year, 1871, and
repeated the experiment of asking Maria to dance. We heard nothing till
past twelve and were going to bed, when the drumming began, and grew
louder and louder on the window-pane of my wife's room, then on the walls,
etc., as before. We set ourselves to observe ; those who were outside the
house heard the noise from inside, and vice versa. The raps then transferred
themselves to the glazed door of my wife's room, up and down which they
ran, now in small shrill shakes, now louder and more measured. At times
we heard vague deep vocal sounds which made us turn to one another and
say, ' Did you do that ? ' and then laugh at our involuntary suspicions.
" The phenomena now continued without our attempting to produce them
by the dance. On January 8th my wife fainted on seeing a ball of light
float from under her bed, small at first, but growing to the size of an india-
rubber ball as big as a soup-plate. Next day the raps began in the day-time,
at 3 p.m., when she had lain down to sleep, and from this time they
followed her everywhere as she walked about the room. This development
troubled us both greatly, and alarmed us as to her health ; for though she
was not particularly afraid of the phenomena, she always felt a peculiar
weakness when they began, with a strong tendency to sleep. We decided
therefore to go for a month to my town-house. But the first person we met
in town was my friend, Dr. Shustoff, who on hearing my account at once
explained that the phenomena were due to electric or magnetic force, arising
from some peculiarity either in the soil beneath our house or, possibly, in
my wife's organism. This not very lucid explanation was enough to cheer
our unlearned minds, and we decided to return to the country with the
doctor for a night at least. We did so, and set Maria to dance. The
phenomena occurred, though only faintly ; but he was able to hear raps on
my wife's bedroom window while she was visibly asleep on the other side of
the room. The doctor again expounded his theory of electricity, and we
were relieved to think that we could put out of our heads the tormenting
idea of evil spirits. Even my mother, who had hitherto been praying and
Supplement.] 325
Reviews.
crossing herself without producing any visible effect on the phenomena, felt
that she could breathe again. Still we decided to carry out our intention of
staying a time in town. The servants told us that nothing happened during
our absence. On one occasion I went there with a friend, and set Maria to
dance, but not a sound resulted.
" We returned on January 21st. Hardly had my wife gone to bed when
the raps recommenced and things began to fly about—dangerous things now,
e.g., a table-knife was hurled violently against the door. This continued in
spite of the care with which we shut up all such objects ; knives and forks
which had been put into a closed cupboard in the evening used sometimes to
fly about at midnight, and some were found sticking in the wall by our bed.
We were now thoroughly alarmed, and I was grateful for the visits of friends
who came out of curiosity to stay with us.
'' The doctor's theory of electricity had finally to be given up on January
24th. That night a visitor, Mr. Alekseeff, was sitting talking to my wife,
and I was carrying the baby and singing to it. When I stopped singing the
other two asked me to go on with the tune ; then they asked me to change
it ; I did so, and then for the first time noticed that the raps on the window
were beating time to me. Mr. Alekseeff began to sing ; the invisible fingers
beat time to every tune, going astray only when he purposely made a sudden
change in tune and rhythm. We then tried singing in a whisper— the
whisper was reduced to a mere movement of the lips—finally the tune was
repeated only mentally ; yet the raps kept time with perfect accuracy. The
force was gifted not only with hearing and understanding, but with the
power of divination. We got my wife to move to a bed close to the glazed
door ; the change was followed by a perfect torrent of raps on the glass.
We then found that the force would rap as many times as any of us either
rapped out on the glass or silently willed. My mother now suggested that
we should chant the Lord's Prayer ; there was not a rap to be heard beyond
a sort of chord at the end. Thinking that the chant was perhaps not lively
enough, I tried the Easter Hymn ; again not a sound ! My friend sang a
secular tune, which was immediately accompanied with embellishments !
Just then our Tartar servant entered the room, and we asked him to chant
his prayer. Silence at once. We told him to say it faster, but however
quickly he gabbled his ' Allah bismillah ' there was not a rap in answer.
But when I tried to imitate his tone in singing the invocation to the spirits
from the Freischdtz, every bar called forth particularly loud raps.
"I then began to put questions. 'Are you a man?' Silence. 'A
spirit?' One rap. ' What sort of spirit ? Good?' No answer. 'Evil?'
Two loud raps. ' What is your name?' And I went through all the names
of good spirits I could think of without getting a reply. But when I came
to the general name of the Power of Evil, and hesitated before pronouncing
it, the raps began as though trying to utter what I had on the tip of my
tongue ; and as I spoke the word ' Devil ? ' there came such a deafening
blow, as though from the whole substance of the door, that we all involun
tarily jumped backwards.
"I then asked why a spirit should behave thus to me, and in reply to
various questions was told that it was ' set on at me. ' I asked who had
done it, and after going through many names was told that it was the servant
326 [Supplement.
Walter Leaf.
of a neigbouring miller with whom I was at the time engaged in a law-suit
about my mill-pond. (I may mention that some time before I had met this
very man, who asked me about the disturbances, and said, with a peculiar
maliciousness and confidence, ' It will be worse than that ; they will drag
you by the hair. ' One day I found my wife in tears, and asked her what it
was. ' They will not let me sleep,' she said, ' they have been pulling my hair.')
" At this time the Orenburg section of the Imperial Geographical Society,
having heard of the manifestations, asked me for an account, particularly of
the meteorological phenomenon of the ball of fire. After drawing it up I
took the opportunity of sending a copy to Dr. Shustoff, the author of the
electrical theory, asking him what he now thought. To my surprise and
satisfaction, this letter was answered by a visit from the doctor himself with
two friends, Mr. Akutin, a civil engineer employed on government work, and
Mr. Savicheff, a local man of letters and poet, editor of the Uralsk Military
Gazette. The three presented themselves merely as interested enquirers,
though it subsequently appeared that they had been officially appointed a
committee of enquiry by General Verevkin, governor of the province. I
placed my house and family entirely at their disposal, and they began with a
strict examination of the rooms. The manifestations, which had ceased for
a time, began again on the first evening of their visit, with raps, flying
objects, etc. Next morning they set up the apparatus they had brought with
them, breaking up part of the floor of my wife's bedroom in order to plant
an iron rod in the soil beneath ; the other point of it was directed towards
the glazed door, the glass of which they covered with tinfoil. They brought
also a Leyden jar, magnets, and other instruments ; but I may say at once
that none of the apparatus threw any light whatever on the causes of the
phenomena. A detailed journal of observations was kept, and we took turns
to watch in my wife's room, whence the chief phenomena seemed to proceed.
" Our first aim was to establish some sort of system in the phenomena ;
but they, on the other hand, seemed to take pleasure in deceiving us. Thus
quite at the beginning, as we were sitting at tea, the tea-things began to fly
away in straight lines from my wife. As soon as we thought we had
established the fact of some sort of repulsive power in her, she went to the
sideboard and opened the door ; the things inside began to fly towards
and past her. However we watched, we never saw anything at the moment
of starting, but always when flying or falling. 1 We got my wife to touch the
things in the cupboard in turn ; none of them moved, but while we were all
watching them, something at the other end of the room, a candlestick or
ladle, would come flying past and fall near us.
"This continued for several days, till things took a new turn. One
evening Akutin, who was in sentry duty in my wife's room, suddenly called
to us to come in. He told us that he had been listening to some indefinite
rustlings on the bed, where my wife was fast asleep, and it had occurred to
him to make a slight scratching with his own nails on the silk coverlet.
This had been immediately replied to by a similar scratching. He repeated
the experiment in our presence. The result was as he had described ; the
sound he made was repeated at once and at the same spot. The experiment
1 Compare Mr. Bristow's case in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VII., p. 389.
Supplement.] 327
Reviews.
was varied ; a definite number of sounds were made of different intensity,
on coverlet, pillow, bedstead or chair ; they were always repeated exactly and
at the same spot. Akutin then asked which of us had made the sounds, and
as he went through our names the same rustling sound invariably indicated
the person who had in fact made the sound. Needless to say that all this
time we kept my wife carefully under observation ; she was lying with her
head turned away, so that she could not look at us to see who was doing it.
' ' Akutin was silent and disturbed for a time. He then began to ask
questions on such things as literature and politics, for instance about the
events of the Franco-German war, which was then going on. He invariably
received correct answers, such as could not have been given by my wife,
who took no interest in political matters, and never read the papers, which,
indeed, we were not taking in. Purposely misleading questions were
received with obstinate silence. Akutin continued to ask in French and
German, languages unknown to most of those present. The result was just
the same ; the answers were always correct. Akutin went on to ask about
the future ; which side would win ? The answer was, the French, and
Gambetta would be President. Among other things we were told that the
Socialist Lassalle was alive. I thought he was dead, and exclaimed, ' What
nonsense ! ' but Akutin corrected my mistake. He asked to be left alone,
and did not go to bed, passing the night in deep meditation. Next morning,
at breakfast, he turned the conversation on to poiitics, and convinced himself
that my wife hardly knew of the existence of the war, and was utterly
ignorant of its details. As for Lassalle and the rest, she had married young,
and her mind was entirely occupied with the nursery and housekeeping.
" Akutin now asked us to move to our town house in Iletski for further
observations. Here the phenomena were much weaker ; the raps, for
instance, were only heard in the immediate neighbourhood of my wife. Two
local physicians were called in to observe. One of them, especially, a
German, Dubinsky by name, was completely sceptical. He first declared
that my wife made the raps by clicking her tongue, and made her hold it
out. The raps ceased for a moment and began again. It was now asserted
that ' it was only the beating of her pulse, and nothing more ! ' When
Akutin declared his intention of publishing the facts, Dr. Dubinsky attacked
him vehemently, and declared that he would compromise himself to no
purpose, that the whole thing was trickery, and that all similar inquiries
had always ended in a fiasco. This evidently produced an effect upon Akutin,
and made him waver. He called upon us to return at once to the countryhouse,
where I regret to say that he had recourse to means not the most honour
able. He bribed a servant boy to say that his mistress made the sounds
herself, and then pretended that he had caught her trying to deceive us by
throwing things. He declared, therefore, that Dubinsky was right, and that
he would give such a turn to his report as would not lead to any con
sequences ; but that he was convinced we were victims of a mystification on
my wife's part, owing to some morbid tendency for which she ought to be
put under medical treatment.
" We accordingly placed her in the hands of Dr. Dubinsky; her health
and spirits improved, the phenomena ceased, and we should have been quite
happy but for two annoyances. First, the appearance of an article in the
328 [Supplement.
Walter Leaf.
Uralsk Military Gazette, signed by the three members of the commission, to
say that the marvels at my country house were all the work of human hands ;
and, secondly, a letter from the governor of the province, warning me that,
as it had been reported that all the manifestations were susceptible of a
perfectly natural explanation, such ' tricks ' were not to occur again, and
reminding me of the serious legal penalties for the dissemination of
superstition.
"Imagine, then, our horror when, on our return to the country in March,
the unknown force at once set to work again. And now even my wife's
presence was not essential. Thus, one day I saw with my own eyes a heavy
sofa jump off all its four legs, and this while my aged mother was lying on it
—to her terrible alarm, I need not say. This was particularly startling to
me, as hitherto I had hardly dared to trust my own eyes ; I had always been
with others who might have influenced me. But this took place in full
daylight, there was no one present but my mother and myself, and a servant
in the antechamber ; and I clearly saw the heavy sofa, with my mother lying
on it, rise three or four times clean off its legs.
" In the evening of the same or the next day, as we were in the sitting-
room, there flew out from a wash-stand in the antechamber, in the sight of
us all, a bluish phosphorescent spark, with a crackling noise. It went towards
my wife's room, though she was not there ; and simultaneously we saw some
thing flame up inside. I rushed in and saw a cotton dress, only partly made
up, burning on a table in a corner. My mother-in-law, who was alone in the
room, anticipated me in extinguishing the fire with a jug of water. Before
admitting any one, I made a careful investigation, and found no explanation
whatever of the fire, other than the spark we had seen. There was a strong
smell of sulphur in the room, proceeding apparently from the dress, the burnt
portions of which were still hot to the touch, and steamed as though the
water had been poured on hot iron instead of on calico.
'' Though reluctant to leave my family alone at such a time, I was called to
the town by unavoidable business, and therefore asked a young neighbour,
Mr. Portnoff-, to come and keep them company in my absence. When I came
back the day after, I found the whole household on the point of leaving, and
the luggage outside the house ; they said it was impossible to stay there any
longer, as things had begun to take fire of themselves, and the previous
evening it had come to a spontaneous combustion of my wife's dress, in
endeavouring to extinguish which Mr. Portnoff had burnt his hands badly.
Mr. Portnoff, whose hands were covered with blisters, gave me the' following
account. On the evening of my departure the phenomena had begun with
bright meteors,which appeared dancing in the verandah, in front of the sitting-
room window. There were several of them, varying in size from a large
apple to a walnut. Their shape was round, their colour deep red or
bluish pink ; they were not quite transparent, but rather dull. This
curious dance continued for some time ; it seemed as though the globes were
trying to get in at the window. My wife was not asleep at the time.
" Next evening they went to sit in the verandah, the weather being warm.
Portnoff returned for a moment to the house and found the bed on fire. He
called for help, and the bedding, which was well aflame, was put out, and a
careful search was made for any remains of fire. They had again taken
Supplement.] 329
Reviews.
their seats in the verandah, and were wondering what the source of the fire
could be, as no matches had been lighted in the room, nor were there any
cigarette smokers in the house, when they again smelt burning. This time
they found the horse-hair mattress on tire from its underside. The fire had
penetrated so far that in their opinion it could not have come from any
sparks previously overlooked ; the more so as the very uninflammable
material contained no admixture of anything else.
' ' But this was not all ; the catastrophe was still to come which decided us
to leave the house at once, in spite of the inundations of the melting snows.
I give it in Portnoffs own words. ' I was sitting playing the guitar. The
miller, who had been with us, got up to leave, and was followed by Helena
Efimovna (Mrs. Shchapoff). Hardly had she shut the door behind her when
I heard, as though from far off, a long deep-drawn wail. The voice seemed
familiar to me ; overcome with an unaccountable horror I rushed to the
door, and there in the passage I saw a literal pillar of fire, in the middle of
which, draped in flame, stood Helena Efimovna ; the lower portion of her
dress was on fire, and the flames almost concealed her. I supposed that the
fire was not violent, as her dress was quite a thin one, and rushed to put it
out with my hands ; but I found it burnt them badly, as though they were
sticking to burning pitch. A sort of cracking noise came from beneath the
floor, which also shook and vibrated violently. The miller came back from
without to help, and between us we carried off the unconscious victim in her
burnt dress.'
" My wife's account was that as soon as she passed through the door into
the passage the floor shook beneath her, there came a deafening noise, and at
the same moment one of the bluish sparks, which we had previously seen
come from the cupboard, flew up from below ; she just had time to cry out in
terror, when she found herself wrapped in fire, and lost consciousness. It
is remarkable that she was not in the least burnt, though the thin dress she
was wearing was burnt all round higher than the knees, nor was there any
sign of fire on her legs.
' ' The miller's account was that he had left the house and was walking
through the garden, when he heard first a noise and then a cry, and turning
round saw there was fire in the passage. He was so frightened that his feet
could hardly carry him to render help.
" After this there was nothing for it but to run away. We took refuge at
the neighbouring hamlet in a Cossack's hut till the floods subsided, and
I carried out sooner than I had intended a plan already formed to leave
my country house and take another. We had no further return of the
phenomena.
"I ought to have mentioned in the proper place that we had one or two
cases of what I have now learnt to call materialisation. The first was a
delicate pink hand like a child's, which my wife saw drumming on the
window-pane. She afterwards saw on the same pane two dark living things
like leeches, which frightened her into a swoon. Another time I was alone
in the house with my wife, who was asleep, and I tried to get a sight of what
it was that was rapping on the floor of her room. Time after time the
rapping stopped at the moment I looked in, and began again as soon as I
went away. But at last I rushed in just as the raps were beginning, and
330 [Supplement.
Harlow Gale.
was numbed with horror. I saw a tiny pink hand, like a child's, spring up
from the floor, disappear behind my wife's coverlet, and pull at the folds, so
that I could see with what unnatural quickness the folds moved, beginning
from the lower end to the point by her side where the hand had disappeared.
I was horrified, because from my wife's position it was absolutely impossible
that the hand could be her own.
'' I have only to add that my wife was a healthy, religious, quiet,
affectionate woman, who suffered from no ill-health till her death from
child-birth eight years later."
These events, as has been said, happened more than twenty years ago.
But Mr. Aksakoff has done his best to collect all the contemporary
confirmative evidence, including letters written at the time, certificates from
several of the witnesses, the account as it was published at an early stage of
the phenomena in the Uralsk Gazette, and the report of Messrs. Akutin and
Savicheff, in which they say that ' ' there is nothing which is not the work of
human hands." The grounds on which they base this conclusion appear to
be that the raps could be imitated, and that when so produced it was
generally very difficult to locate the spot from which they came ; and that
the flying objects were never seen to start, and could only be observed when
flying or falling. They do not appear to have grappled with the facts as
stated by Mr. Shchapoff ; but of course their adverse verdict cannot be
entirely set aside. Finally it should be added that Mr. Aksakoff has
copiously annotated the narrative with references to similar phenomena in
the spiritistic literature with which he is so intimately acquainted. These
notes are not the least valuable portion of the publication.
This long notice must close with very brief mention of another curious
case, in which similar phenomena occurred in a Russian peasant's hut near
Nijni Novgorod. The noises and the throwing of objects were here
accompanied by voices, which personated the '' domovoi " or house-spirit
who in popular belief is attached to every Russian home. The voices used
to hold friendly and jocose conversations with the inmates at night, when
the lights were out ; they represented themselves to be a spirit peasant
family, and discussed such village matters as would be of interest to a moujik.
The medium in this case was a little girl of eight years old, and the question
whether she could not have played the part without any external assistance
mainly turns on the physical possibility of so small a child producing the
bass voice in which the father domovoi used to talk. Here, as in Mr.
Shchapoffs case, the authorities intervened with legal proceedings on the
ground of cheating. The family made a pilgrimage to a neighbouring
monastery to ask for a cessation of the trouble, and this measure proved
successful.
Walter Leaf.
A Scientific Demonstration of the Future Life. By Thomson Jay
Hudson, Author of The Law of Psychic Phenomena, etc. (Chicago :
A. C. McClurgand Co., 1895.)
" The object of this book is to outline a method of scientific inquiry
concerning the powers, attributes, and destiny of the soul, and to specifically
point out and classify a sufficient number of the well authenticated facts of
Supplement.] 331
Reviews.
psychic science to demonstrate the fact of a future life for mankind. " "In
pursuing this inquiry, I have endeavoured to follow the strictest rules of
scientific induction, taking nothing for granted that is not axiomatic, and
holding that there is nothing worthy of belief that is not sustained by a solid
basis of well-authenticated facts." (Preface).
The main argument of the book is summarily stated in the concluding
chapter as follows :—"If Nature is constant, no faculty of the human mind
exists without a normal function to perform. If no faculty exists without
a normal function to perform, those faculties which do exist must perform
their functions either in this life or a future life. If man possesses
faculties which perform no normal function in this life, it follows that the
functions of such faculties must be performed in a future life. Or, to put
the argument in a still more concise and purely syllogistic form, the proposi
tions stand thus :—
' ' Every faculty of the human mind has a normal function to perform
either in this life or in a future life.
' ' Some faculties of the human mind perform no normal functions in this
life.
'' Therefore, some facilities of tlie human mind are destined to perform
theirj'unctions in a future life.
"No scientist will for a moment question the soundness of the major
premise of the above syllogism. It is self-evident,—axiomatic.
" No one who is at all familiar with the results of modern scientific
research in the field of psychic phenomena will for a moment gainsay the
minor premise. The one faculty of telepathy alone is demonstrative of the
soundness of that proposition, to say nothing of the faculty of intuitive
perception, etc.
"The major and minor premises being each demonstrably true, the
soundness of the conclusion that man is destined to inherit a future life is
self-evident." (p. 321.)
We need hardly say that the major premise of this argument would meet
with much questioning by those scientists who no longer believe in " facul
ties," but who are finding more and more of the inter-connection of states of
consciousness and of sub-consciousness, and of the dependence of all these
states on the nervous mechanism.1
The minor premise rests on the evidence on which the author bases his
fundamental distinction between the subjective and objective mind. This
theory of a dual mind, which was a "working hypothesis," and "formulated
tentatively" in the earlier book, he now believes to have been "abundantly
demonstrated by the facts of experimental hypnotism, cerebral anatomy, and
experimental surgery." (p. 318.)
In the second book he proceeds in this way to carry it to its " legitimate
conclusions." The "faculties" of the " subjective mind " have increased
in number, definiteness and extent since the earlier book. (See the review
of The Law of Psychic Phenomena, Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXIV., Vol.
1 Compare the book under review with, e.g., the late and great "Gehirn und
Seele." Flechsig : 2te Ausgabe, mit Anmerkungen, 1896.
332 [Supplement.
Harlow Gale.
IX., p. 231, and the book itself, pp. 29, 46, 62, 151, 208, 250, 287-294.)
They are recapitulated in the Scientific Demonstration as follows :—
" 1. The subjective mind is constantly amenable to control by the power
of suggestion.
"2. It is incapable of independent reasoning by the processes of
induction.
" 3. Its power to reason deductively from given premises to correct
conclusions is practically perfect.
"4. It is endowed with a perfect memory.
"5. It is the seat of the emotions.
"6. It possesses the power to move ponderable objects without physical
contact.
"7. It has the power to communicate and receive intelligence otherwise
than through the recognised channels of the senses.
"8. Its activity and power are inversely proportionate to the vigour and
healthfulness of the physical organism.
"9. It is endowed with the faculties of instinct and intuition, and,
under certain conditions, with the power of intuitive cognition or perception
of the laws of Nature.
" It needs no argument or illustration to show that the objective mind
has little in common with the subjective in any of the foregoing attributes,
powers, and limitations. The objective mind (1) is manifestly not con
trollable by the power of suggestion in the sense in which the subjective
mind is so controlled,—that is, against reason, experience, and the evidence of
the senses ; (2) it is capable of inductive reasoning ; (3) its power of de
ductive reasoning is by no means perfect, nor does it approach perfection ;
(4) its memory, in its best estate, is very defective, and comparatively
speaking, amounts to nothing more than an uncertain, evanescent ability to
recall a few of the more prominent ideas and impressions which it has once
experienced ; (5) it is absolutely destitute of emotion ; (6) it cannot exercise
the slightest kinetic force beyond the range of physical contact ; (7) it is
destitute of any power remotely akin to telepathy ; (8) the essential pre
requisite to the successful exercise of its highest powers and functions is a
perfectly sound, healthy, normal physical organism ; (9) it is endowed with
no power which is remotely akin to instinct or intuition." (pp. 225-6.)
The powers belonging exclusively to the subjective mind are held to
constitute a "set of faculties, each perfect in itself and complete in the
aggregate,—that is to say, every faculty, attribute, and power necessary to
constitute a complete personality being present in perfection ; and we find
that the most important of those faculties perform no normal function in
physical life.
' ' Here, then, we have a personality, connascent with the physical
organism, but possessing independent powers ; a distinct entity, with the
intellect of a god ; a human soul, filled with human emotions, affections,
hopes, aspirations, and desires ; longing for immorta life with a passionate
yearning that passeth understanding ; possessing, in a word, all the in
tellectual and moral attributes of a perfect manhood, together with a kinetic
force often transcending, in its visible manifestations, the power of the
Supplement.] 333
Reviews.
physical frame ; in a word, 'a perfect being, nobly planned,'—a being of
godlike powers and infinite possibilities.
" Is it conceivable that there has been created such a manhood without
a mission, such faculties without a function, such powers without a purpose?"
(pp. 319 and 320.)
It ought, however, to be observed that the final syllogism, before quoted,
does not involve the theory of the dual mind. "Not," says the author,
"that I have the slightest doubt of the scientific accuracy of that hypothesis;
for I can have none in view of the array of facts which have been presented.
But, as I have already pointed out, the theory of a dual mind and the theory
of a unitary mind with dual faculties are concurrent hypotheses, and lead to
identical conclusions. Hypothesis is not a final dogma : it is merely an
instrument of logic. It is the divining-rod of truth. Facts are primordial,
antecedent, and ultimate, and exist independently of any hypothesis that
may be employed to account for them. ... If the facts which have
been adduced do not demonstrate my thesis, crudely and imperfectly as they
liave been presented, then Nature herself has performed a miracle, and
demonstrated her inconstancy." (pp. 321-2.)
In looking back through the book for the "facts" thus confidently
appealed to, one finds only one new line of evidence over the former book,
viz., Chap. XV., " Duality Demonstrated by Anatomy." Here Hammond's 1
Treatise on Insanity is quoted to show that " certain faculties of the mind
[instincts] are not confined " to the brain. This is suddenly transformed by
a paralogism into "higher functions of intellect," (p. 245) and these are given
the name, "subjective mind," and so "demonstrated" to be independent
of the cerebral hemispheres. Since no other work on the anatomy and
physiology of the nervous system is quoted, we wonder if possibly the
author did not get the inspiration for this "new argument " from the quota
tion of Dr. Hammond's in Sargent's Scientific Basis of Spiritualism, (Boston,
Colby and Rich, 5th Ed., 1887):—"In the fact that the spinal cord and
sympathetic ganglia are not devoid of mental power, we find an explanation
of some of the most startling facts of what is called Spiritualism." (p. 228.)
Aside from this anatomical demonstration, there is only repetition of the
uncritical and loosely stated evidence of the kind given in The Law of
Psychic Phenomena. The hope expressed that the review of that work in the
Proceedings, Vol. IX., p. 234, would perhaps stimulate the author to some
thing more of that " steady experiment and laborious accuracy which alone
can help towards his avowed object of ' bringing Psychology within the domain
of the exact sciences ' "—this hope is sorely disappointed in the Scientific
Demonstration of the Future Life. For, after getting the confidence of the
reader through the introductory apostrophe to Bacon and the inductive
method, and after a very wholesome criticism of the defectiveness of the old
arguments of Analogy, Authority, Metaphysics and Instinctive desire, the
author then gives us no new evidential material, either of observation or
experiment.
He simply "explains" everything ever reported in spiritism, hypnotism,
telepathy, clairvoyance, and religion, by means of his subjective and
1 This author is elsewhere (p. 302) credited with having "forever settled the
relations between psychic conditions and nervous diseases."
334 [Supplement-
Harlow Gale.
objective entities. This is at bottom similar to the strife over Apperception
in Psychology. For "subjective" and "apperceptive" are both most
convenient and even necessary terms for the description of psychical phe
nomena, but to personify those terms into faculties or entities for the
explanation of the phenomena,—this is bringing regression to metaphysical
confusion into our modern Psychology, which is trying so hard to be
scientific. On the other hand, the author energetically snatches away the
only class of cases which seem to many of us to offer any evidential
possibility or probability—not to speak of "demonstration" (of which we
are finding less and less in this world, not to speak of any other)—viz., the
residual cases in spiritism. The following method of a forced disjunctive is
very characteristic of a controversialist who makes a parade of "logic " and
" the rules of correct reasoning."
"I hold that so-called spiritistic phenomena are valuable as evidence of
a future life only on the supposition that none of them emanate from dis
embodied spirits. My reasons are briefly these :—
" In the first place, two antagonistic hypotheses cannot both be correct ;
nor can each be partly true and partly false : for any hypothesis that does
not explain all the facts is necessarily wrong, and therefore utterly valueless.
Thus, if any one of a series of so-called spiritistic phenomena can be demon
strated to emanate from disembodied spirits, the telepathic hypothesis is
necessarily invalid as a solvent for that series of phenomena. On the other
hand, if one of said series can be demonstrated to be referable to tele
pathy between living persons, the spiritistic hypothesis is necessarily wrong.
In other words, it is a logical necessity that, as between two antagonistic
hypotheses, one or the other must be wholly right and the other wholly
wrong, or both must be wholly wrong. The nature of the case does not
admit of compromise ; for principles of natural law are not established by
majorities of facts, nor are there exceptions in the operation of natural laws.
It follows that if one psychic phenomenon could be scientifically demon
strated to have been produced by disembodied spirits, the whole subject
would be relegated to logical chaos, and some solution of the mystery would
have to be sought for other than that embraced in either of the hypotheses
under consideration." (pp. 112-113.)
This being so, we are not surprised that the author, in controverting the
views of Messrs. Savage and Myers, is indignantly aroused to a " protest,
in the name of outraged science, against all attempts to base a hypothesis
upon a ' small residuum ' of phenomena." (p. 105.)
His criticism of a " test case " of Mr. Savage is, we think, just ; but his
introduction of Mr. Myers' name into this discussion is rather unwarrantable.
At the same time, he politely adds that "the scientific world will never
cease to be grateful to them for the painstaking care which they have
exercised in eliminating the ' vast bulk ' of the phenomena which have been
attributed to supermundane agency ; and if I have succeeded in reducing
them to a ' still smaller residuum, ' I shall beg the privilege of quietly
basking in the reflected glory of their achievements." (pp. 111-112).
That this "still smaller residuum" equals 0 the author also apparently
believes, because "the unmistakable import of the closing clauses of the
parable [of the rich man and Lazarus] is that it is neither expedient nor
Wi'eme: Supplement.) 335
Reviews.
wptM possible, for any purpose whatever, for spirits of the dead to communicate
h m<« with the living." (pp. 324-325.)
.il pie- Indeed, so far from complaining of his want of appreciation of the
>r tie scientific work of the S.P.R., we are rather disposed to regret that he often
ivsial exaggerates our results. We do not presume to claim that " no law or
tu be power of Nature has been more completely and scientifically demonstrated
f tie than has been the law of telepathy " (pp. 68, 197) ; still less that " no
ntial phenomenon in the realm of physical science is better authenticated than
i ire those of so-called spiritism." (p. 54.)
the t In conclusion, we cannot but regard the somewhat pretentious claim
e is which this book makes to "demonstration" and the maintenance of a strictly
and "scientific" standard of reasoning as unfounded. The book may possibly
gain popularity from the general interest in the subject, the strong desire in
t of many minds for a confirmation of popular religious ideas by the light of
lis- science, and certain attractive qualities of the author's style : but it is hardly
likely to contribute to the advance of knowledge in matters of psychical
a . research.
Harlow Gale.
University of Minnesota, Minneapolis.
■ss.
in■
b
:
e-
j.
T
!('
y
6
>
General Meeting. 337
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETING.
The 84th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, January 29th, 1897, at 4 p.m. ; the
President, Mr. W. Crookes, F.R.S., in the chair.
" Miss X." read a paper entitled " A Passing Note on a Haunted
House."
Thk President gave the address which is printed below.
2 A
338 President's Address.
ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT,
William Crookes, P.R.S.
The task I am called upon to perform to-day is to my thinking by
no means a merely formal or easy matter. It fills me with deep con
cern to give an address, with such authority as a President's chair
confers, upon a science which, though still in a purely nascent stage,
seems to me at least as important as any other science whatever.
Psychical science, as we here try to pursue it, is the embryo of some
thing which in time may dominate the whole world of thought. This
possibility—nay probability— does not make it the easier to me now.
Embryonic development is apt to be both rapid and interesting ; yet
the prudent man shrinks from dogmatising on the egg until he has
seen the chicken.
Nevertheless, I desire, if I can, to say a helpful word. And I ask
myself what kind of helpful word. Is there any connexion between
my old-standing interest in pyschical problems and such original work
as I may have been able to do in other branches of science 1
I think there is such a connexion—that the most helpful quality
which has aided me in psychical problems and has made me lucky in
physical discoveries (sometimes of rather unexpected kinds), has
simply been my knowledge—my vital knowledge, if I may so term it
—of my own ignorance.
Most students of Nature sooner or later pass through a process of
writing off a large percentage of their supposed capital of knowledge
as a merely illusory asset. As we trace more accurately certain
familiar sequences of phenomena, we begin to realise how closely these
sequences, or laws, as we call them, are hemmed round by still other
laws of which we can form no notion. With myself, this writing off of
illusory assets has gone rather far; and the cobweb of supposed
knowledge has been pinched (as some one has phrased) into a par
ticularly small pill.
I am not disposed to bewail the limitations imposed by human
ignorance. On the contrary, I feel ignorance is a healthful stimulant ;
and my enforced conviction that neither I nor any one can possibly lay
down beforehand what does not exist in the universe, or even what is
not going on all round us every day of our lives, leaves me with a
cheerful hope that something very new and very arresting may turn
up anywhere at any minute.
Well, it was this attitude of a mind " to let," which first brought
nic across Mr. D. D. Home, and which led to my getting a glimpse of
President's Address. 339
some important laws of matter and energy of which I fear many of
my fellow physicists still prefer to be uncognizant. It is this same
accessible temper of mind which leads me to follow the problems of the
Society for Psychical Research with an interest which, if somewhat
calmed by advancing years, and by a perception of the inevitable
slowness of discovery, is still as deep a feeling as any which life has
left me. And I shall try to utilise this temper of mind to day by
clearing away, so far as I can, certain presuppositions, on one side
or on the other, which seem to me to depend upon a too hasty assump
tion that we know more about the universe than as yet we really can
know.
I will take the most essential part first, and address myself to those
who believe with me in the survival of man's individuality after death.
I will point out a curious, inveterate, and widespread illusion,—-the
illusion that our earthly bodies are a kind of norm of humanity, so
that ethereal bodies, if such there be, must correspond to them in shape
and size.
When we take a physical view of a human being in his highest
form of development, he is seen to consist essentially of a thinking
brain, the brain itself, among its manifold functions, being a trans
former whereby intelligent will-power is enabled to react on matter.
To communicate with the external world, the brain requires organs by
which it can be transported from place to place, and other organs by
means of which energy is supplied to replace that expended in the
exercise of its own special functions. Again, waste of tissue and
reparation have to be provided for ; hence the necessity for organs of
digestion, assimilation, circulation, respiration, (fee, to carry on these
processes effectually ; and when we consider that this highly complex
organ is fitted to undergo active work for the best part of a century,
we cannot but marvel that it can keep in tune so long. The human
creature represents the most perfect thinking and acting machine yet
evolved on this earth, developing through countless ages in strict
harmony with the surrounding conditions of temperature, atmosphere,
light and gravitation. The profound modifications in the human
frame which any important alteration in either of these factors would
occasion are strangely unconsidered. It is true there have been
questionings as to the effects that might be occasioned by changes in
temperature and atmospheric composition, but possible variations
in gravitation seem almost to have escaped notice. The human body,
which long experience and habit have taught us to consider in its
highest development as the perfection of beauty and grace,—"formed
in the image of God,"—is entirely conditioned by the strength of
gravitation on this globe. So far as has been possible to ascertain,
the intensity of gravity has not varied appreciably within those
2 a 2
340 President's Address,
geologic ages covering the existence of animated thinking beings.
The human race, therefore, has passed through all its periods of
evolution and development, in strict conformity with and submission
to this dominant power, until it is difficult to conceive any great
departure from the narrow limits imposed on the proportions of the
human frame.
In the first place, I wish to consider what transformation in our
appearance would be produced by a change in the force of gravitation.
Let us take extreme cases. Say that the power of gravitation
were to be doubled. In that case we should have to exert a vastly
increased strength to support ourselves in any other than the prone
or dorsal position—it would be hard to rise from the ground, to run,
leap, climb, to drag or carry any object. Our muscles would neces
sarily be more powerful, and the skeleton to which they are attached
would need corresponding modification. To work such limbs a more
rapid transformation of matter would be required ; hence the supply
of nutriment must be greater, involving enlarged digestive organs, and a
larger respiratory apparatus to allow of the perfect aeration of the
increased mass of the blood. To keep up the circulation with the
necessary force, either the heart would have to be more powerful or
the distance through which the blood would require to be impelled
must be reduced. The increased amount of nourishment demanded
would involve a corresponding increase in the difficulty of its collection,
and the struggle for existence would be intensified. More food being
required day by day, the jaws would have to be enlarged and the
muscles strengthened. The teeth also must be adapted for extra
tearing and grinding.
These considerations involve marked changes in the structure
of human beings. To accord with thickened bones, bulging muscles,
and larger respiratory and digestive apparatus, the body would be
heavier and more massive. The necessity for such alterations in struc
ture would be increased by the liability to fall. The necessity of
keeping the centre of gravity low, and the great demands made on the
system in other respects must conspire to reduce the size of head and
brain. With increase of gravitation, the bipedal form would be beset
by drawbacks. Assuming that the human race, under the altered
circumstances, remained bipedal, it is highly probable that a large
increase in the quadruped, hexapod, or octopod structure would prevail
in the animal kingdom. The majority of animals would be of the
Saurian class with very short legs, allowing the trunk to rest easily on
the ground, and the serpent type would probably be in the ascendant.
Winged creatures would suffer severely, and small birds and insects
would be dragged to earth by a force hard to resist ; although this
might be more or less compensated by the increased density of the air.
President's Address. 341
Humming birds, dragon-flies, butterflies, and bees, all of which spend
a large portion of their time in the air, would, in the struggle for
existence, be rare visitants. Hence the fertilisation of flowers by the
intervention of insects must be thwarted ; and this would lead to the
extinction, or at all events to a scarcity, of entomophilous plants, i.e.,
all those with the showiest blossoms—a gloomy result to follow from a
mere increase of the earth's attraction.
But having known no other type of human form, it is allowable to
think that, under these different conditions, Man would still consider
Woman— though stunted, thick-limbed, flat-footed, with enormous jaws
underlying a diminutive skull—as the highest type of beauty !
Decreased attraction of the earth might be attended with another
set of changes scarcely less remarkable. With the same expenditure of
vital energy as at present, and with the same quantity of transformation
of matter, we should be able to lift heavier weights, to take longer
bounds, to move with greater swiftness, and to undergo prolonged
muscular exertion with less fatigue—possibly to fly. Hence the
transformation of matter required to keep up animal heat, and to
restore the waste of energy and tissue, would be smaller for the same
amount of duty done. A less volume of blood, reduced lungs and
digestive organs would be required. Thus we might expect a set of
structural changes of an inverse nature to those resulting from
intensified gravitation. All parts of the body might safely be
constructed upon a less massive plan—a slighter skeleton, smaller
muscles, and slenderer trunk. These modifications, in a less degree than
we are contemplating, tend in the present to beauty of form, and it is
easy to imagine our aesthetic feelings would naturally keep pace with
further developments in the direction of grace, slenderness, symmetry,
and tall figures.
It is curious that the popular conceptions of evil and malignant
beings are of the type that would be produced by increased gravitation,
—toads, reptiles, and noisome creeping things,—while the Arch Fiend
himself is represented as perhaps the ultimate form which could be
assumed by a thinking brain and its necessary machinery were the
power of gravitation to be increased to the highest point compatible
with existence—a serpent crawling along the ground. On the other
hand, our highest types of beauty are those which would be common
under decreased gravitation.
The " daughter of the gods, divinely tall," and the leaping athlete,
please us by the slight triumph over the earthward pull which their
stature or spring implies. It is true we do not correspondingly admire
the flea, whose triumph over gravitation, unaided by wings, is so
striking. Marvellous as is the flea, its body, like ours, is strictly con
ditioned by gravitation.
342 President's A ddress.
But popular imagination presupposes spiritual beings to be utterly
independent of gravitation, whilst retaining shapes and proportions
which gravitation originally determined, and only gravitation seems
likely to maintain
When and if spiritual beings make themselves visible either to our
bodily eyes or to our inward vision, their object would be thwarted
were they not to appear in a recognisable form ; so that their appear
ance would take the shape of the body and clothing to which we
have been accustomed. Materiality, form, and space, I am constrained
to believe, are temporary conditions of our present existence. It is
difficult to conceive the idea of a spiritual being having a body like
ours, conditioned by the exact gravitating force exerted by the earth,
and with organs which presuppose the need for food and necessity for
the removal of waste products. It is equally difficult, hemmed in and
bound round as we are by materialistic ideas, to think of intelligence,
thought, and will, existing without form or matter, and untrammelled
by gravitation or space.
Men of science before now have had to face a similar problem. In
some speculations on the nature of matter, Faraday1 expressed himself
1 "If we must assume at all, as indeed in a branch of knowledge like the present
we can hardly help it, then the safest course appears to be to assume as little as
possible, and in that respect the atoms of Boscovich appear to me to have a great
advantage over the more usual notion. His atoms are mere centres of forces or
powers, not particles of matter, in which the powers themselves reside."
"If in the ordinary view of atoms, we call the particle of matter away from the
powers a, and the system of powers or forces in and around it m, then in Boscovich's
theory a disappears, or is a mere mathematical point, whilst in the usual notion it is
a little unchangeable, impenetrable piece of matter, and m is an atmosphere of force
grouped around it."
"To my mind therefore, the a or nucleus vanishes, and thesubstance consists of the
powers or m ; and indeed, what notion can we form of the nucleus independent of its
powers ? All our perception and knowledge of the atom, and even our fancy, is limited
to ideas of its powers : what thought remains on which to hang the imagination of an
a independent of the acknowledged forces ? "
" A mind just entering on the subject may consider it difficult to think of the
powers of matter independent of a separate something to be called the matter, but it
is certainly far more difficult, and indeed impossible, to think of or imagine that
matter independent of the powers. Now the powers we know and recognise in every
phenomenon of the creation, the abstract matter in none ; why then assume the
existence of that of which we are ignorant, which we cannot conceive, and for which
there is no philosophical necessity ? "
" If an atom be conceived to be a centre of power, that which is ordinarily referred
to under the term shape would be now referred to the disposition and relative
intensity of the forces. . . . Nothing can be supposed of the disposition of forces
in and about a solid nucleus of matter, which cannot be equally conceived with
respect to a centre."
" The view now stated of the constitution of matter would seem to involve
necessarily the conclusion that matter fills all space. ... In that view matter is
not merely mutually penetrable, but each atom extends, so to say, throughout the
I whole of the solar system, yet always retaining its own centre of force."—Faeaday,
I " On the Nature of Matter," Phil. Mag., 1844, vol. xxiv., p. 13G.
President's Address. 343
in language which, mutatis mutandis, applies to my present sur
mises. This earnest philosopher was speculating on the ultimate nature
of matter ; and, thinking of the little, hard, impenetrable atom of
Lucretius, and the forces or forms of energy appertaining to it, he
felt himself impelled to reject the idea of the existence of the nucleus
altogether, and to think only of the forces and forms of energy usually
associated therewith. He was led to the conclusion that this view
necessarily involved the surmise that the atoms are not merely mutually
penetrable, but that each atom, so to say, extends throughout all space,
yet always retaining its own centre of force.1
A view of the constitution of matter which recommended itself to
Faraday as preferable to the one ordinarily held, appears to me to be
exactly the view I endeavour to picture as the constitution of spiritual
beings. Centres of intellect, will, energy, and power, each mutually
penetrable, whilst at the same time permeating what we call space ;
but each centre retaining its own individuality, persistence of self, and
memory. Whether these intelligent centres of the various spiritual
forces which in their aggregate go to make up Man's character or
Karma, are also associated in any way with the forms of energy
which, centred, form the material atom,—whether these spiritual
entities are material, not in the crude, gross sense of Lucretius, but
material as sublimated through the piercing intellect of Faraday,—is
one of those mysteries which to us mortals will perhaps ever remain an
unsolved problem.
My next speculation is more difficult, and is addressed to those who
not only take too terrestrial a view, but who deny the plausibility—nay,
the possibility—of the existence of an unseen world at all. I reply we
are demonstrably standing on the brink, at any rate, of one unseen
world. I do not here speak of a spiritual or immaterial world. I speak
of the world of the infinitely little, which must be still called a
material world, although matter as therein existing or perceptible is
something which our limited faculties do not enable us to conceive. It
is the world—I do not say of molecular forces as opposed to molar, but
of forces whose action lies mainly outside the limit of human perception,
as opposed to forces evident to the gross perception of human organisms.
I hardly know how to make clear to myself or to you the difference in
the apparent laws of the universe which would follow upon a mere
difference of bulk in the observer. Such an observer I must needs
imagine as best I can. I shall not attempt to rival the vividness of
the great satirist who, from a postulated difference of size far less
considerable, deduced in "Gulliver's Travels" the absurdity, and the
mere relativity, of so much in human morals, politics, society. But I
1 I may say, in passing, that the modern vortex atom also fulfils these conditio
344 President's Address.
shall take courage from the example of my predecessor in this chair,
Professor William James of Harvard, from whom later I shall cite a
most striking parable of precisely the type I seek.
You must permit me, then, a homunculus on whom to hang my
speculation. I cannot place him actually amid the interplay of
molecules, for lack of power to imagine his environment ; but I shall
make him of such microscopic size that molecular forces which in
common life we hardly notice,—such as surface-tension, capillarity;,
the Brownian movements,—become for him so conspicuous and
dominant that he can hardly believe, let us say, in the universality
of gravitation, which we may suppose to have been revealed to him
by ourselves, his creators.
Let us place him on a cabbage leaf, and let him start for himself.
The area of the cabbage-leaf appears to him as a boundless plain
many square miles in extent. To this minimised creature the leaf is
studded with huge glittering transparent globes, resting motionless
on the surface of the leaf, each globe vastly exceeding in height the
towering Pyramids. Each of these spheres appears to emit from
one of its sides a dazzling light. Urged by curiosity he approaches
and touches one of the orbs. It resists pressure like an india-rubber
ball, until accidentally he fractures the surface, when suddenly he feels
himself seized and whirled and brought somewhere to an equilibrium,
where he remains suspended in the surface of the sphere utterly unable
to extricate himself. In the course of an hour or two he finds the
globe diminishing, and ultimately it disappears, leaving him at liberty
to pursue his travels. Quitting the cabbage-leaf, he strays over the
surface of the soil, finding it exceeding rocky and mountainous, until
he sees before him a broad surface akin to the kind of matter which
formed the globes on the cabbage-leaf. Instead, however, of rising
upwards from its support, it now slopes downwards in a vast curve
from the brink, and ultimately becomes apparently level, though, as
this is at a considerable distance from the shore, he cannot be
absolutely certain. Let us now suppose that he holds in his hand a
vessel bearing the same proportion to his minimised frame that a pint
measure does to that of a man as he is, and that by adroit manipula
tion he contrives to fill it with water. If he inverts the vessel he finds
that the liquid will not flow, and can only be dislodged by violent
shocks. Wearied by his exertions to empty the vessel- of water, he
sits on the shore, and idly amuses himself by throwing stones and
other objects into the water. As a rule the stones and other wet
1 I need hardly say that in this fanciful sketch, composed only for an illustrative
purpose, all kinds of problems (as of the homunculus's own structure and powers) are
left untouched, and various points which would really need to be mathematically
worked out are left intentionally vague.
President's Address. 345
bodies sink, although when dry they obstinately refuse to go to the
bottom, but float on the surface. He tries other substances. A rod
of polished steel, a silver pencil-case, some platinum wire, and a steel
pen, objects two or three times the density of the stones, refuse to sink
at all, and float on the surface like so many bits of cork. Nay, if he
and his friends manage to throw into the water one of those enormous
steel bars which we call needles, this also makes a sort of concave
trough for itself on the surface, and floats tranquilly. After these and
a few more observations, he theorises on the properties of water and of
liquids in general. Will he come to the conclusion that liquids seek
their own level ; that their surfaces when at rest are horizontal, and
that solids when placed in a liquid, sink or float according to their
higher or lower specific gravity 1 No ; he will feel justified in inferring
that liquids, at rest, assume spherical, or at least curvilinear forms,
whether convex or concave, depending upon circumstances not easily
ascertained ; that they cannot be poured from one vessel to another,
and resist the force of gravitation, which is consequently not universal ;
and that such bodies as he' can manipulate generally refuse to sink in
liquids, whether their specific gravity be high or low. From the
behaviour of a body placed in contact with a dew-drop he will even
derive plausible reasons for doubting the inertia of matter.
Already he has been somewhat puzzled by the constant and
capricious bombardment of cumbrous objects like portmanteaus flying
in the air ; for the gay motes that people the sunbeams will dance
somewhat unpleasantly for a microscopic homunculus who can never
tell where they are coming. Nay, what he has understood to be the
difficulty experienced by living creatures in rising from the earth,
except with wings, will soon seem absurdly exaggerated. For he will
discern a terrific creature, a Behemoth " in plated mail," leaping
through the skies in frenzied search for prey ; and for the first time
due homage will be rendered to the majesty of the common flea.
Perturbed by doubts, he will gaze at night into some absolutely
tranquil pool. There, with no wind to ruffle, nor access of heat to
cause currents or change surface-tension, he perceives small inanimate
objects immersed and still. But are they still 1 No ! One of them
moves ; another is moving. Gradually it is borne in upon him that
whenever any object is small enough it is always in motion. Perhaps
our homunculus might be better able than we are to explain these
so-called Brownian movements. Or the guess might be forced upon
him that he who sees this sight is getting dim glimpses of the ultimate
structure of matter, and that these movements are residual, the result
of the inward molecular turmoil which has not cancelled itself out
into nullity, as it must needs do in aggregations of matter of more
than the smallest microscopic dimensions.
346 President'8 Address.
Things still more tormentingly perplexing, our homunculus would
doubtless encounter. And these changes in his interpretation of
phenomena would arise not from his becoming aware of any forces
hitherto overlooked, still less from the disappearance of laws now-
recognised, but simply from the fact that his supposed decrease in
bodily size brings capillarity, surface-tension, &c., into a relative'
prominence they do not now possess. To full-grown rational beingsV
the effects of these forces rank among residual phenomena which/
attract attention only when science has made a certain progress. To
homunculi, such as we have imagined, the same effects would be of
capital importance, and would be rightly interpreted not as something
supplementary to those of general gravitation, but as due to an inde
pendent and possibly antagonistic force.
The physics of these homunculi would differ most remarkably from
our own. Tn the study of heat they would encounter difficulties
probably insuperable. In this branch of physical investigation little
can be done unless we have the power at pleasure of raising and
lowering the temperature of bodies. This requires the command of
fire. Actual man, in a rudimentary state of civilisation, can heat and
ignite certain kinds of matter by friction, percussion, concentrating
the sun's rays, &c. ; but before these operations produce actual fire
they must be performed upon a considerable mass of matter, otherwise
the heat is conducted or radiated away as rapidly as produced, and the
point of ignition seldom reached.
Nor could it be otherwise with the chemistry of the little people,^
if, indeed, such a science be conceived as at all possible for them. V
It can scarcely be denied that the fundamental phenomena which
first led mankind into chemical enquiries are those of combustion.
But, as we have just seen, minimised beings would be unable to produce
fire at will, except by certain chemical reactions, and would have little
opportunity of examining its nature. They might occasionally witness
forest fires, volcanic eruptions, &c. ; but such grand and catastrophic
phenomena, though serving to reveal to our supposed Lilliputians the
existence of combustion, would be ill-suited for quiet investigation into
its conditions and products. Moreover, considering the impossibility
they would experience of pouring water from one test-tube to another,
the ordinary operations of analytical chemistry, and of all manipula
tions depending on the use of the pneumatic trough, would remain for
ever a sealed book.
Let us for a moment go to the opposite extreme, and consider how
Nature would present itself to human beings of enormous magnitude.
Their difficulties and misconstructions would be of an opposite nature
to those experienced by pigmies. Capillary attraction and the cohesion
of liquids, surface tension and the curvature of liquid surfaces near
President's Address. 347
their boundary, the dew drop and the behaviour of minute bodies on a
globule of water, the flotation of metals on the surface of water, and
many other familiar phenomena, would be either ignored or unknown.
The homunculus able to communicate but a small momentum would
find all objects much harder than they appear to us, whilst to a race of
colossals granite rocks would be but a feeble impediment.
There would be another most remarkable difference between such
enormous beings and ourselves : if we stoop and take up a pinch of
earth between fingers and thumb, moving those members, say, through
the space of a few inches in a second of time, we experience nothing
remarkable. The earth offers a little resistance, more or less, according
to its greater or less tenacity, but no other perceptible reaction
follows.
Let us suppose the same action performed by a gigantic being, able
to move finger and thumb in a second's space through some miles of
soil in the same lapse of time, and he would experience a very decided
reaction. The mass of sand, earth, stones, and the like, hurled together
in such quantities and at such speed, would become intensely hot.
Just as the homunculus would fail to bring about ignition when he
desired, so the colossus could scarcely move without causing the libera
tion of a highly inconvenient degree of heat, literally making everything
too hot to hold. He would naturally ascribe to granite rocks and the
other constituents of the earth's surface such properties as we attribute
to phosphorus—of combustion on being a little roughly handled.
Need I do more than point the obvious lesson 1 If a possible—
nay, reasonable—variation in only one of the forces conditioning the
human race—that of gravitation—could so modify our outward form,
appearance, ancf proportions, as to make us to all intents and purposes
a different race of beings ; if mere differences of size can cause some
of the most simple facts in chemistry and physics to take so widely
different a guise ; if beings microscopically small and prodigiously large
would simply as such be subject to the hallucinations I have pointed
out—and to others I might enlarge upon ;—is it not possible that we,
in turn, though occupying, as it seems to us, the golden mean, may also
by the mere virtue of our size and weight fall into misinterpretations
of phenomena from which we should escape were we or the globe we
Inhabit either larger or smaller, heavier or lighter? May not our
boasted knowledge be simply conditioned by accidental environments,
and thus be liable to a large~element of subjectivity hitherto unsus
pected and scarcely possible to eliminate 1
Here I will introduce Prof. James's speculation, to which I have
already alluded. It deals with a possible alteration of the time scale
due to a difference in rapidity of sensation on the part of a being pre
sumably on a larger scale than ourselves.
348 President's Address.
" We have every reason to think that creatures may possibly differ
enormously in the amounts of duration which they intuitively feel, and
in the fineness of the events that may fill it. "Von Baer has indulged
in some interesting computations of the effect of such differences in
changing the aspect of Nature. Suppose we were able, within the
length of a second, to note distinctly 10,000 events, instead of barely
10, as now ; if our life were then destined to hold the same number of
impressions, it might be 1,000 times as short. We should live less
than a month, and personally know nothing of the change of seasons.
If born in winter we should believe in summer as we now believe in
the heats of the carboniferous era. The motions of organic beings
would be so slow to our senses as to be inferred, not seen. The sun
would stand still in the sky, the moon be almost free from change, and
so on. But now reverse the hypothesis, and suppose a being to get only
one 1,000th part of the sensations that we get in a given time, and
consequently to live 1,000 times as long. Winters and summers will be
to him like quarters of an hour. Mushrooms and the swifter-growing
plants will shoot into being so rapidly as to appear instantaneous
creations ; annual shrubs will rise and fall from the earth like restlessly
boiling water-springs ; the motions of animals will be as invisible as are
to us the movements of bullets and cannon-balls ; the sun will scour
through the sky like a meteor, leaving a fiery trail behind him, &c.
That such imaginary cases (barring the super-human longevity) may
be realised somewhere in the animal kingdom, it would be rash to
deny."—(James's Principles of Psychology," Vol. i., p. 639).
And now let me specially apply this general conception of the
impossibility of predicting what secrets the universe may still hold,
what agencies undivined may habitually be at work around us.
Telepathy, the transmission of thought and images directly from one
mind to another, without the agency of the recognised organs of sense,
is a conception new and strange to science. To judge from the
comparative slownesss with which the accumulated evidence of our
Society penetrates the scientific world, it is, I think, a conception even
scientifically repulsive to many minds. We have supplied striking
experimental evidence ; but few have been found to repeat our
experiments. We have offered good evidence in the observation of
spontaneous cases,—as apparitions at the moment of death and the
like,—but this evidence has failed to impress the scientific world in
the same way as evidence less careful and less coherent has often done
before. Our evidence is not confronted and refuted ; it is shirked and
evaded, as though there were some great a priori improbability which
absolved the world of science from considering it. I at least see no
a priori improbability whatever. Our alleged facts might be true in
all kinds of ways without contradicting any truth already known. I
will dwell now on only one possible line of explanation,—not that I see
President's A ddress. 349
any way of elucidating all the new phenomena I regard as genuine,
but because it seems probable I may shed a light on some of those
phenomena. v
All the phenomena of the Universe are presumably in some way \
continuous ; and certain facts, plucked as it were from the very heart of 1
Nature, are likely to be of use in our gradual discovery of facts which J
lie deeper still.
Let us then consider the vibrations we trace, not only in solid
bodies, but in the air, and in a still more remarkable manner in the
ether.
These vibrations differ in their velocity and in their frequency.
That they exist, extending from one vibration to two thousand billion
vibrations per second we have good evidence. That they subserve the
purpose of conveying impressions from outside sources of whatever
kind to living organisms may be fully recognised.
As a starting-point I will take a pendulum beating seconds in air.
If I keep on doubling I get a series of steps as follows :—■
/
Starting-point.
rr,
-V1
The seconds pendulum.
2 vibrations per second.
4 „ ■,
8 ,, >>
16 „ „
32 ,, ■
64 „ »
128
256
512 „ ,,
1024
32768
1,048576
33,554432 „
1073,741824
34359,738368
1,099511,627776
35,184372,088832
1125,899906,842624
36028,707018,963968
72057,594037,927936
144115,188075,855872
288220,376151,711744 „
576440,752303,423488
1,152881,504606,846976
2,305763,009213,693952
4,611526,018427,387904
9,223052,036854,775808
350 President'8 Address.
At the fifth step from unity, at 32 vibrations per second, we reach
the region where atmospheric vibration reveals itself to us as sound.
Here we have the lowest musical note. In the next ten steps the
vibrations per second rise from 32 to 32,768, and here to the average
human ear the region of sound ends. But certain more highly
endowed animals probably hear sounds too acute for our organs, that
is, sounds which vibrate at a higher rate.
We next enter a region in which the vibrations rise rapidly, and the
vibrating medium is no longer the gross atmosphere, but a highly
attenuated medium, "a diviner air," called the ether. From the 16th
to the 35th step the vibrations rise from 32,768 to 34359,738368 a
second, such vibrations appearing to our means of observation as
electrical rays.
We next reach a region extending from the 35th to the 45th step,
including from 34359,738368 to 35,184372,088832 vibrations per
second. This region may be considered as unknown, because we are as
yet ignorant what are the functions of vibrations of the rates just
mentioned. But that they have some function it is fair to suppose.
Now we approach the region of light, the steps extending from the
45th to between the 50th and the 51st, and the vibrations extending
from 35,184372,088832 per second (heat rays) to 1875,000000,000000
per second, the highest recorded rays of the spectrum. The actual
sensation of light, and therefore the vibrations which transmit visible
signs, being comprised between the narrow limits of about
450,000000,000000 (red light) and 750,000000,000000 (violet light)
—less than one step.
Leaving the region of visible light, we arrive at what is, for our
existing senses and our means of research, another unknown region,
the functions of which we are beginning to suspect. It is not unlikely
that the X rays of Professor Rontgen will be found to lie between the
58th and the 61st step, having vibrations extending from 288220,576
151,711744 to 2,305763,009213,693952 per second or even higher.
In this series it will be seen there are two great gaps, or unknown
regions, concerning which we must own our entire ignorance as to the
part they play in the economy of creation. Further, whether any
vibrations exist having a greater number per second than those classes
mentioned we do not presume to decide.
But is it premature to ask in what way are vibrations connected
with thought or its transmission? We might speculate that the
increasing rapidity or frequency of the vibrations would accompany a
rise in the importance of the functions of such vibrations. That
high frequency deprives the rays of many attributes that might seem
incompatible with " brain waves," is undoubted. Thus, rays about the
62nd step are so minute as to cease to be refracted, reflected or polarised ;
President's Address. 351
they pass through many so-called opaque Bodies, and research begins
to show that the most rapid are just those which pass most easily
through dense substances. It does not require much stretch of the
scientific imagination to conceive that at the 62nd or 63rd step the
trammels from which rays at the 61st step were struggling to free
themselves, have ceased to influence rays having so enormous a rate
of vibration as 9,223052,036854,775808 per second, and that these
rays pierce the densest medium with scarcely any diminution of
intensity, and pass almost unrefracted and unreflected along their path
with the velocity of light.
Ordinarily we communicate intelligence to each other by speech.
I first call up in my own brain a picture of a scene I wish to describe,
and then, by means of an orderly transmission of wave vibrations set
in motion by my vocal cords through the material atmosphere, a corres
ponding picture is implanted in the brain of any one whose ear is
capable of receiving such vibrations. If the scene I wish to impress
on the brain of the recipient is of a complicated character, or if the
picture of it in my own brain is not definite, the transmission will
be more or less imperfect ; but if I wish to get my audience to picture
to themselves some very simple object, such as a triangle or a circle, the
transmission of ideas will be well nigh perfect, and equally clear to
the brains of both transmitter and recipient. Here we use the
vibrations of the material molecules of the atmosphere to transmit
intelligence from one brain to another.
In the newly-discovered Rontgen rays we are introduced to an
order of vibrations of extremest minuteness as compared with the
most minute waves with which we have hitherto been acquainted, and
of dimensions comparable with the distances between the centres of
the atoms of which the material universe is built up ; and there is no
reason to suppose that we have here reached the limit of frequency.
Waves of this character cease to have many of the properties asso
ciated with light waves. They are produced in the same etherial
medium, and are probably propagated with the same velocity as light,
but here the similarity ends. They cannot be regularly reflected from
polished surfaces ; they have not been polarised ; they are not refracted
on passing from one medium to another of different density, and they
penetrate considerable thicknesses of substances opaque to light with
the same ease with which light passes through glass. It is also demon
strated that these rays, as generated in the vacuum tube, are not
homogeneous, but consist of bundles of different wave-lengths,
analogous to what would be differences of colour could we see them as
light. Some pass easily through flesh, but are partially arrested by
bone, while others pass with almost equal facility through bone and
flesh.
352 President's Address.
It seems to me that in these rays we may have a possible mode of
transmitting intelligence, which with a few reasonable postulates, may
supply a key to much that is obscure in psychical research. Let it be
assumed that these rays, or rays even of higher frequency, can pass
into the brain and act on some nervous centre there. Let it be conceived
that the brain contains a centre which uses these rays as the vocal
cords use sound vibrations (both being under the command of intelli
gence), and sends them out, with the velocity of light, to impinge on
the receiving ganglion of another brain. In this way some, at least,
of the phenomena of telepathy, and the transmission of intelligence
from one sensitive to another through long distances, seem to come
into the domain of law, and can be grasped. A sensitive may be one
who possesses the telepathic transmitting or receiving ganglion in an
advanced state of development, or who, by constant practice, is
rendered more sensitive to these high-frequency waves. Experience
seems to show that the receiving and the transmitting ganglions are
not equally developed ; one may be active, while the other, lite the
pineal eye in man, may be only vestigial. By such a hypothesis no
physical laws are violated, neither is it necessary to invoke what is
commonly called the supernatural. ■
To this hypothesis it may be objected that brain waves, like any
other waves, must obey physical laws. Therefore, transmission of
thought must be easier or more certain the nearer the agent and
recipient are to each other, and should die out altogether before great
distances are reached. Also it can be urged that if brain waves diffuse
in all directions they should affect all sensitives within their radius of
action instead of impressing only one brain. The electric telegraph is
not a parallel case, for there a material wire intervenes to conduct and
guide the energy to its destination.
These are weighty objections, but not, I think, insurmountable. Far
be it from me to say anything disrespectful of the law of inverse squares,
but I have already endeavoured to show we are dealing with conditions
removed from our material and limited conceptions of space, matter,
form. Is it inconceivable that intense thought concentrated towards a
sensitive with whom the thinker is in close sympathy may induce a
telepathic chain of brain waves, along which the message of thought
can go straight to its goal without loss of energy due to distance 1
And is it also inconceivable that our mundane ideas of space and
distance may be superseded in these subtile regions of unsubstantial
thought where "near " and " far" may lose their usual meaning 1
I repeat that this speculation is strictly provisional. I dare to
suggest it. The time may come when it will be possible to submit it to
experimental tests.
President's Address. 353
I am impelled to one further reflection, dealing with the conserva- 1
tion of energy. We say with truth that energy is transformed but not i
destroyed, and that whenever we can trace the transformation we find I
it quantitatively exact. So far as our very rough exactness goes, this L
is true for inorganic matter and for mechanical forces. But it is only
I inferentially true for organised matter and for vital forces. We cannot
/ express life in terms of heat or of motion. And thus it happens that
I just when the exact transformation of energy will be most interesting
V to watch, we cannotjreally tell whether any fresh energy has been intro
duced into the system or not. Let us consider this a little more
closely.
It has, of course, always been realised by physicists, and has been
especially pointed out by Dr. Croll, that there is a wide difference
between the production of motion and the direction of it into a par
ticular channel. The production of motion, molar or molecular, is
governed by physical laws, which it is the business of the philosopher
to find out and correlate. The law of the conservation of energy
overrides all laws, and it is a pre-eminent canon of scientific belief that
for every act done a corresponding expenditure of energy must be
transformed! No work can be effected without using up a corres
ponding value in energy of another kind. But to us the other side of
the problem is even of more importance. Granted the existence of a
certain kind of molecular motion, what is it that determines its
direction along one path rather than another 1 A weight falls to the
earth through a distance of three feet. I lift it, and let it fall once
more. In these movements of the weight a certain amount of energy
is expended in its rise, and the same amount is liberated in its fall.
But instead of letting the weight fall free, suppose I harness it to a
complicated system of wheels, and, instead of letting the weight fall
in a fraction of a second, I distribute its fall over twenty-four hours.
No more energy is expended in raising the weight, and in its slow fall
no more or less energy is developed than when it fell free ; but I have
made it do work of another kind. It now drives a clock, a telescope
or a philosophic instrument, and does what we call useful work. The
clock runs down. I lift the weight by exerting the proper amount of
energy, and in this action the law of conservation of energy is strictly
obeyed. But now I have the choice of either letting the weight fall
free in a fraction of a second, or, constrained by the wheelwork, in
twenty-four hours. I can do which I like, and whichever way I decide,
no more energy is developed in the fall of the weight. I strike a
match : I can use it to light a cigarette or to set fire to a house. I
write a telegram : it may be simply to say I shall be late for dinner,
or it may produce fluctuations on the Stock Exchange that will ruin
thousands. In these cases the actual force required in striking the
——^—WMM—im™—imm
354 President's Address,
match or in writing the telegram is governed by the law of conserva
tion of energy ; but the vastly more momentous part, which determines^
the words I use or the material I ignite, is beyond such a law. It is
■pfobabTe thatHo "expenditure of energy need be used in the determina
tion of direction one way more than another. Intelligence and free
will here come into play, and these mystic forces are outside the law
of conservation of energy as understood by physicists.
The whole universe as we see it is the result of molecular move
ment. Molecular movements strictly obey the law of conservation of
energy, but what we call " law " is simply an expression of the direc
tion along which a form of energy acts, not the form of energy itself.
We may explain molecular and molar motions, and discover all the
physical laws of motion, but we shall be far as ever from a solution of
the vastly more important question as to what form of will and intellect
is behind the motions of molecules, guiding and constraining them
in definite directions along pre-determined paths. What is the deter
mining cause in the background? What combination of will and
intellect, outside our physical laws, guides the fortuitous concourse of
atoms along ordered paths culminating in the material world in which
we live 1
i
In these last sentences I have intentionally used words of wide
signification—have spoken of guidance along ordered paths. It is
wisdom to be vague here, for we absolutely cannot say whether or
when any diversion may be introduced into the existing system of
earthly forces by an external power. We can no more be certain that
this is not so than I can be certain in an express train that no signal
man has pressed a handle to direct the train on to this or that line of
rails. I may compute exactly how much coal is used per mile, so as to
be able to say at any minute how many miles we have travelled, but,
unless I actually see the points, I cannot tell whether they are shifted
before the train passes.
An omnipotent being could rule the course of this world in such
a way that none of us should discover the hidden springs of action.
He need not make the Sun stand still upon Gibeon. He could do all
that he wanted by the expenditure of infinitesimal diverting force
upon ultra-microscopic modifications of the human germ.
In this address I have not attempted to add any item to the
sound knowledge which I believe our Society is gradually amassing.
I shall be content if I have helped to clear away some of those
scientific stumbling-blocks, if I may so call them, which tend to
prevent many of our possible coadjutors from adventuring them
selves on the new illimitable road.
President's Address. 355
I see no good reason why any man of scientific mind should shut
his eyes to our work, or deliberately stand aloof from it. Our
Proceedings are of course not exactly parallel to the Proceedings of a
Society dealing with a long-established branch of Science. In every
form of research their must be a beginning. We own to much that is
tentative, much that may turn out erroneous. But it is thus, and
thus only, that each Science in turn takes its stand. I venture to
assert that both in actual careful record of new and important facts,
and in suggestiveness, our Society's work and publications will form
no unworthy preface to a profounder science both of Man, of Nature,
and of " Worlds not realised " than this planet has yet known.
Edmund Ourney Library. 357
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
SUPPLEMENTARY CATALOGUE, 1896.
Additions since the list in "Proceedings," Vol. XI.
Bramwell (J. Milne, M.B.), On Imperative Ideas. Being a Dis
cussion on Dr. Hack Take's Paper. (Brain, 1895) London, 1896
James Braid, Surgeon and Hypnotist. (Brain, 1896)...London, 1896
Boirac (E.), L'Hypothese du MagnStisme Animal (La Nonvelle
Revue, October 1st, 1895) Paris, 1895
Cahagnet (L. Alphonse) Arcanes de la Vie future deVoiles. 3 vols.
Paris, 1848-60
Duiiand, (J. P. de Gros), La Philosophie Physiologique et Medicale
Parts, 1868
L'Idée et le Fait en Biologie Paris, 1896
Les Mysteres de la Suggestion (Revue de l'Hypnotisme)...Paris, 1896
[Philips (Dr. J. P.), ] Cours The"orique et Pratique de Braidisme
ou Hypnotisme Nerveux Paris, 1860
Influence Re'ciproque de la Pensée, de la Sensation, et des
Mouvements Végetatifs Paris, 1862
Joly (Henri) Psychologie des Grands Hommes Paris, 1891
Rochas (Albert de), L'Extériorisation de la Sensibility Paris, 1895
Benedict (Prof. D. M. ), Second Life. Das Seelon-Binnen (Beprint
from " Wiener Klinik " ) Vienna, 1891
Breuer & Freud (Drs.), Studien iiber Hysterie Leipzig, 1895
Buchner (Prof. Ludwig), Doppeltes Bewusstsein (Die Zukunft, No.
30, April 27th, 1895) Berlin, 1895
Dessoir (Max) Das Doppel-Ich (2nd Edition, Enlarged). Leipzig, 1896
Koch (Dr. J. L. A.), Von Bewusstsein in Zustanden Sogenannte
Bewusstlosigkeit Stuttgart 1877
Krafft-Ebing (Dr. R. von), Hypnotische Experimente (2nd Edition)
Stuttgart, 1893.
Landmann (Dr. S.), Die Mehrheit Geistiger Personlichkeiten in einem
Individuum Stuttgart, 1894
Mhller (Dr. Franz Carl), Psychopathologie des Bewusstseins
Leipzig, 1889
Reichel (Willy), Der Heil-Magnetismus Berlin, 1896
A full Catalogue of the books in the Edmund Gurney Library was printed
at the end of Vol. V. of the Proceedings. Supplementary Catalogues were
printed at the end of Vols. VI., VII., VIII., IX., X., and XI. Separate
copies of these Catalogues are still on hand, and can be obtained from the
Secretary.
2 B
358 Officers and Council for 1897.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor H. Sidgwick - 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S. - - - 1885-1887.
Professor H. Sidgwick ------ 1888-1892.
Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S. - - 1893.
Professor William James (Harvard, U.S.A.) - 1894-1895.
William Crookes, F.R.S. ... 1896.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1897.
PRESIDENT.
William Crookes, F.R.S.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour,
M.P., F.R.S.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.E.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T.
Richard H. Hutton.
ProfessorW.JameS.Harvard.U.S.A.
Professor S. P. Langley, Smithson
ian Institution,Washington, U.S.A.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of
Ripon.
Professor Henry Sidgwick.
council.
TheRt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, M.P.
Thomas Barkworth.
A. W. Barrett, M.B.
Professor W. F. Barrett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal-
carres, K.T., F.RS.
St. George Lane Fox.
Lieut.-Col. J. Hartley.
Mr. Registrar Hood.
Walter Leaf, Litt.D.
Professor Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S.
ProfessorMacalister.M.D.,F.R.S.
Frederic W. H. Myers.
Frank Podmore.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
C. Lockhart Robertson, M.D,
George F. Rogers, M.D.
Sydney C. Scott.
Professor Henry Sidgwick.
H. Arthur Smith.
H. Babington Smith.
R. Pearsall Smith.
Sir Augustus K. Stephenson,
K.C.B., Q.C.
Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
J. Venn, D. Sc., F.R.S.
Abraham Wallace, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
HON. SECRETARY.
Frederic W. H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
SECRETARY FOR THE UNITED STATES.
Dr. Richard Hodgson, 5, Boylston Place, Boston, Mass.
ASSISTANT-SECRETARY.
Edward T. Bennett, 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, London, W.C
List of Members and Associates. 359
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
(March, 1897.)
PRESIDENT.
William Crookes, F.R.S.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., 4, Carlton-gardens, S.W.
Professor W. F. Barrett, Royal College of Science, Dublin.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
Richard H. Hutton, Crossdeep Lodge, Twickenham.
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A.
Professor S. P. Langley, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.A.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of Ripon, The Palace, Ripon.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, Newnham College, Cambridge.
HONORARY MEMBERS.
William Crookes, F.R.S., 7, Kensington Park-gardens, London, W.
The Right Hon. W. E. Gladstone, Hawarden Castle, Chester.
John Ruskin, LL.D., D.C.L., Brantwood, Coniston, Lancashire.
Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.S., Corfe View, Parkstone, Dorset.
G. F. Watts, R.A., Little Holland House, London, W.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
Alexander N. Aksakof, 6, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa, 906, Rio Janeiro.
Prof. H. Beaunis, Villa Josephine, Boute dAntibes, Cannes, France.
Professor Bernheim, Hdpital Civil, Nancy.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Cambridge,
Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia College, New York, U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6, Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Dr. Max Dessoir, 27, Kothener Strasse, Berlin, W.
Dr. Fere, 37, Boulevard St. Michel, Paris.
Professor Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Eduard von Hartmann, Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany.
Professor Pierre Janet, 22, Rue de Bellechasse, Paris.
Dr. A. A. Liebeault, Nancy, France.
2 b 2
360 List of Members and Associates.
Professor J. Liegeois, Nancy, France.
Professor C. Lombroso, 43, Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,U.S.A
Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15, Rue de l'TJniversit£, Paris.
Professor Sabatier, Montpellier, France.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2, Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Professor N. Wagner, Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
Dr. Otto G. Wetterstrand, Stockholm.
Dr. G. C. Wittig, 22, Kornerstrasse, Leipzig.
MEMBERS, HONORARY ASSOCIATES, AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Adair, Desmond, Bank of England, Plymouth.
Adams, Mrs., 4, Brookside, Cambridge.
Ainslie, Douglas, St. James's Club, Piccadilly, London, W.
Alexander, S., M.A., The Owens College, Manchester.
Allen, Henry J., 14, Ailesbury-road, Donnybrook, co. Dublin.
Allen, Rev. W. O. B., M.A., 83, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Amert, W. C., 34a, Corporation-street, Birmingham.
Argles, Miss Edith M., The Deanery, Peterborough.
Arnott, T. Davidson, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.
Ashburton, The Lady, Kent House, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Atkinson, Henry, 48, Parliament-hill-road, Hampstead, N.W.
Bacchus, Mrs., The Manor House, Lillington, near Leamington.
Bacle, E., 57, Rue de Chateaudun, Paris.
Badelier, Emile, Rangoon, British Burmah.
Baggally, Wortley W., 23, Lower Phillimore-place, Kensington, W.
Baines, Miss W., Tighnamara, Rothesay, Isle of Bute, N.B.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 47, Russell-road, West Kensington, W,
Baker, Edmund G., High View, Shooters-hill, Kent.
Baker, Miss Morrant, Boston Lodge, Harvard-rd., Gunnersbury, S.W.
Balfour,The Right Hon. A. J.,M.P.,F.R.S., 4,Carlton-gdns.,S.W.
Balfour,The Right Hon.G.W., M.P.,24,Addison-road, London,W.
Balfour, Miss, 4, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Bannerman, Colonel P. W., 8, Somers-place, Hyde Park, London, W.
Barclay, Rev. Chas.W., M.A.,TheVicarage, Hertford Heath, Hertford.
Barkly, Mrs., Hampton Court Palace, near London.
Barkworth, Thomas, J. P., West Hatch, Chigwell, Essex.
List of Members and Associates. 361
Barlow, Miss Jane, The Cottage, Raheny, co. Dublin.
Barlow, Colonel W. R., 56, Penywern-road, London, S.W.
Barrett, Ashley W., M.B., 7, Cavendish-place, Cavendish-square,W.
Barrett, Professor W. F., F.R.S.E., Kingstown, co. Dublin.
Barrington, Hon. Eric, 62, Cadogan-place, London, S.W.
Bartholomew, Colonel, Bantry Lodge, Glengariff, co. Cork.
Bates, Colonel C. E., 34, Oxford-terrace, London, W.
Bates, Miss, c/o London and County Bank, Maidstone.
Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring.
Bayfield, Rev. Matthew A., M.A., The College, Eastbourne.
Beatty, Octavius, Fairholt, Merton-hall-road, Wimbledon, Surrey.
Beazley, Lieutenant-Colonel George G., 74, Redcliffe-sq., S.W.
Bective, The Countess of, Barnacre Lodge, Garstang.
Beer, Mrs., 7, Chesterfield-gardens, London, W.
Bell, Charles W., J.P., D.L., Yewhurst, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Bell, Major Wm. Morrison, Thor, Birchington, Thanet, Kent.
Bellasis, Major G. M., c/o H. S. King and Co., 45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T., Devonshire House, Richmond, near London.
Bennett, Ernest N., M.A., Hertford College, Oxford.
Benson, Mrs.
Benson, Miss Annette M., M.D., Cama Hospital, Bombay.
Bentinck, Lady Henry, 13, Grosvenor-place, London, W.
Berens, Rev. Randolph, M.A., 14, Prince's-gardens, London, S.W.
Bergen, Axel von, Harewood Hill, Darlington.
Bergen, Dr. Carl von, 32, Karlavagen, Stockholm.
Bernard, John, Captain, R.M.L.I., H.M.S. "Nelson," Portsmouth.
Berry.Mrs. F. M. Dickinson,M.D.,60,Welbeck-st.,Cavendish-sq.,W,
Bevan, Miss N. H, Chalet Passiflora, Cannes, Prance.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131, Gloucester-road, London, S.W.
Beveridge, Erskine, St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Bibby, Charles Hesketh, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bickford-Smith, R.A.H., B.A., 19, Endymion-road, Brixton Rise, S.W.
Bicknell, Rev. Clarence, M.A., Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
Bidder, Mrs. G. P., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bidder, George P., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Biddulph, The Lady Elizabeth P., 19, Ennismore-gardens, S.W.
Bielby, Horace C. V., 67, Lord-street, Liverpool, W.
Bigg, Miss Louisa, Lyndhurst, Luton.
Birks, Rev. Edward B., M.A., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Birrell, Mrs., Placilla, Lansdowne-road, Worthing.
Blackburn, Ernest M., 38, Egerton-gardens, London, S.W.
Blackwell, Elizabeth, M.D., Rock House, Hastings.
Blackwood, Mrs., Norton Court, Sittingbourne, Kent.
362 List of Members and Associates.
Blaine, Miss H. G. Delab4;re, 129, Cromwell-road, London, S.W.
Blakelock, Rev. R., M.A., Horbury Bridge Vicarage, Wakefield.
Bltth, W. M., 20, Highbury-terrace, London, N.
Bogeb, Mrs. H. M., Elvington, Ryde, Isle of Wight.
Bois, Henry Gordon, c/o J. M. Robertson and Co., Colombo, Ceylon.
Bois, Herbert G., 4, Clarendon-place, Hyde Park-square, W.
Boldero, Lieut.-General G. N, 20, Westbourne-gardens, Folkestone.
Bolland, Mrs., 7, Cranbury-terrace, Southampton.
Bolton, Miss A. J., B.A. (N.Z.), Hillside, Bourton-road, Buckingham.
Boorne, Herbert H., 9a, Sackville street, Piccadilly, London, W.
Boscq de Beaumont, G. du, Bayeux (Calvados), Prance.
Boswell-Stone, Miss E. L , Dayrells, 47, Wickham-road, Beckenham.
Boucher, Mrs., c/o Miss Lutley, West-street, Wiveliscombe, Somerset.
Boulnois, H. Percy, M.Inst.C.E., 7, Devonshire-road, Liverpool.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., at Carey's, Brockenhurst.
Bowell, Ernest W. W., Sissinghurst Vicarage, Cranbrook, Kent.
Bowness, William Wilson, 26,Campden-grove, Kensington, London,W.
Boyd, C. W., 7, Abbotsford-crescent, St. Andrews, NB.
Bramston, Miss A. R., Witham-close, Winchester.
Bramston, Miss M., Suntrap, Radcliffe-road, Croydon.
Bramwell, John M., M.B., 2, Henrietta-street, Cavendish-square,W.
Brandreth, Henry S., Pairholme, Weybridge.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brett, George, The College, Weston-super-Mare.
Brewster, Mrs. F., 21, Park-valley, Nottingham.
Briggs, Mrs., Welbury Drive, Bradford.
Brill, Alice B., M.D., New York, U.S.A.
Britten, James, P.L.S., 126, Kennington Park-road, London, S.E.
Brooke, Lady, Ranee of Sarawak, Wimbledon Park, S.W.
Brooke, Col. C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W.
Brooke, Rev. Stopford A,, M.A., 1, Manchester-square, London, W.
Brown, Miss Johnson, 26, Carisbrooke-road, St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Browne, Edward G., M.A., M.B., Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Browne, Mrs. Walter P., Bidston, Alleyn-road, West Dulwich, S.E.
Browning, Oscar, M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Bruhns, Theodore, Simferopol, Russia.
Bryant, A. C., B.A., 2, Langham-road, West Green, London, N.
Bryant, Captain G. E., R.A., c/o J. M. Edwards, The Elms, Ramsgate.
Bryce, J. P., J. P., Bystock, near Exmouth, Devon.
Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15, Campden Hill-square, W.
Buchanan, H. B. M., B.A., 9, Upper Beulah Hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Buckler, W. H., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, West Kirby, near Birkenhead.
Bullock, Mrs., St. Margaret's, Mitcham, Surrey.
List of Members and Associates. 363
Bulmer, Mrs., Field House, Sleights, R.S.O., York.
Bunnett, A., Junr., 10, Station-road, South Norwood, S.E.
Bunshaw, N.F., Med. Off., B.G.J.P. Railway,Ghadechi, Kathiawar, India.
Burt, Percival J., 16, Leadenhall-street, London, E.G.
Burton, Mrs., 1, Iddesleigh Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Burton, Mrs., Logner Hall, Shrewsbury.
Bushell, Rev. W. D., M.A., Harrow-on-the-Hill.
Bute, The Marquis of, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
Butt, Lady, 17, Viale P33a- Margherita, Florence, Italy.
Buttemer, Robert William, St. Mary's, Godalming.
Caillard, Sir Vincent, Constantinople.
Caillard, Miss, Wingfield House, near Trowbridge, "Wiltshire.
Caird, Mrs., 3, Lyndhurst-gardens, .South Hampstead, London.
Caldecott, Rev. Professor Alfred, M.A., Lopham Rectory, Thetford.
Callaway, Charles, D.Sc., M.A., Nortonbury House, Tewkesbury.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Colintraive, Argyllshire, N.B.
Campbell, Colin E., B.A., 22, Market Hill, Cambridge.
Campbell, Mrs. Napier, 81, Ashley-gardens, London, S.W.
Candler, H. A. W., 37, Commercial-road East, London, E.
Cannon, Mrs., Hillcot, Sharpies, near Bolton.
Carbery, William E., 21, Eldon-road, Kensington, W.
Carey, Arthur, B.Sc, Browsich, Gateacre, near Liverpool.
Carleton, Hon. Mrs. Leir, Greywell Hill, Winchfield.
*Carlile, W. A., 101, Whitehead-road, Aston, Birmingham.
Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Carter, Mrs. L. Brudenell, 5, Observatory-gardens, Kensington, W.
Cathels, Rev. David, M.A., The Manse, Hawick, N.B.
Cave, Charles, J. P., 13, Lowndes-square, London, S.W.
Cave-Browne-Cave, Mrs. T., Burnage, Streatham Common, S.W.
Cazalet, Mrs., Grenehurst, Dorking.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham.
Chase, Capt. W. St. L., V.C., care of Messrs. William Watson and
Co., 28, Apollo-street, Bombay.
Ohattock, Arthur P., University College, Bristol.
Chichele-Plowden, Trevor, C.S.I., The Residency, Hyderabad,
Deccan, India.
Chichester, Miss May, Wotton Rectory, Dorking.
Childers, Miss F. I., 46, Gunter's-grove, London, S.W.
Clark, W. W., Denehurst, Dorking.
Clark, Miss, Suffield Park, Cromer.
Clarke, Francis, 63, Gladsmuir-road, Whitehall Park, London, N.
Clarke, J. F. Howard, M.D.,M.R.C.S.,(Eng.) 105, Wardour-street, W.
Clarke, John Henry, M.D., 30, Clarges-street, London, W.
Clarke, Robert H., M.A., M.B., M.R.C.S., Clarence Lodge, Redhill,
364 List of Members and Associates.
Clarke, Rev. W. J., 186, Bristol-road, Birmingham.
Clayton, Charles E., 152, North-street, Brighton.
Clemens, 8. L., Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Cleveland, The Duchess of, 18, Grosvenor-place, London, S.W.
Clissold, Edward M., Fawley Lodge, Lansdown-road, Cheltenham.
Clive, The Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Close, Rev. Maxwell H., M.A., University Club, Dublin.
Coates, Andrew, Pitcullen House, Perth, N.B.
Coffin, Walter H., F.L.S., 94, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Coghill, Colonel Kendal, C.B., Cosheen, Castle Townshend, co. Cork.
Colegrane, Mrs. E , Bracebridge, Norwood, S.E.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Collingwood, Miss A. M., 5, Addison-mansions, West Kensington, W.
Collins, Sir Robert H., K.C.B., Broom Hill, Claremont, Esher.
Collison, Mrs. Henry C., 17b, Great Cumberland-place, London, W.
Colthdrst, Lady, 47, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Colvile, Colonel Henry E., C.B., 24, Chapel-st., Belgrave-square, S.W.
Compton, Lady Alwyne, 7, Balfour-place, London, W.
Cooney, Rev. Stewart E., M.A., 28, Donegall-passage, Belfast.
Cope, Rev. C. H, M.A., Churchills, Caterham Valley, Surrey.
Cotterell, James, 140, Earlsfield-road, Wandsworth Common, S.W.
Cort van der Linden, Professor P. W. A., 6, Swimame-st., The Hague.
Cousens, Charles H., Star Chambers, 30, Moorgate-st., London, E.C.
Cousens, John S., Wanstead, Essex.
Cowan, William H., 11, Malborough-road, Bournemouth.
Cowper, The Hon. Mrs. Spencer, Grosvenor Hotel, London, S.W.
Crackanthorpe, Mrs., 65, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Crawford and Balcarres, The Earl of, K.T., F.R.S., 2, Caven
dish-square, London, W.
Crawford, F. Marion,Villa Crawford, Sant'Agnello di Sorrento, Italy.
Crawford, W. C., 1, Lookharton-gardens, Colinton-road, Edinburgh.
Crawley, Mrs. Chas., 3, Regent-street, London, S.W.
Crawshay, Robert, 16, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Crespo, J. Charters, 162, Rua de S. Julias, Lisbon, Portugal.
Crewdson, Miss Gwendolen, The Barons, Reigate.
Crommelin, Miss Constance de la C, 29, Sussex-square, Brighton.
Crooks, Miss, Kensington, South Australia.
Crossley, Professor Hastings, Casa del Vallone, Bordighera, Italy.
Crowe, W. Leadham, 10, Jeffry's-square, St. Mary Axe, London, E.C.
Cruise, Sir F. R., M.D., 93, Merrion-square, W., Dublin.
Crump, Harold E., M.A., The Chestnuts, St. Margaret's, Twickenham.
Cunningham, G.,D.M.D. (Harvard, U.S.A.), 2, King's-parade,Cambridge.
Cushing, Mrs. F. W., 4, Rue Chalgrin, Paris.
D'Abbadie, Antoine, 120, Rue de Bac, Paris.
List of Members and Associates. 365
Dakyns, Henry Graham, M.A.,Higher Coombe, Haslemere, Surrey.
Dall, Miss E. L., 42, Chesterton-road, Cambridge.
Dallas, Miss H. S. A., 116, King Henry's-rd., South Hampstead, N.W.
Damania, Surgeon-Major, P. J., National Liberal Club, London.
Danvers, Mrs., 4, Cranley Mansion, Gloucester-road, S.W.
Darell-Brown, Mrs., 1, Douro-villas, Cheltenham.
Darley, Lady, Quambi, Woollohra, New South Wales.
Dartnell, George E., Abbottsfield, Stratford-road, Salisbury.
Darwin, Mrs. Francis, Wychfield, Huntingdon-roud, Cambridge.
Davies, Benjamin, 20, Lomond-road, Fairfield, Liverpool.
Davis, A. E., F.R.C.S. (Ed.), L.R.C.P.I., 20, Great George-sq., Liverpool.
Davis, Joseph T., Holly Bush, Snaresbrook, Essex.
Davis, Thomas Henry, Gatefield, Clarendon-road, Lewisham, S.E.
Davison, Miss Annie, 1, Stanford-road, Kensington, W.
Day, Barclay L., Redcot, Meads, Eastbourne.
De Grey, The Countess, 1, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Dem, John, Walsingham, Chislehurst.
*Despard, Miss, 77, Chesterton-road, North Kensington, London, W.
Dewar, Rev. Peter, M.A., The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, N.B.
Dicksee, Frank, A.R.A., 80, Peel-street, Campden Hill, London, W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.A., M.B., 6, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
Dixon, Edward T., 4, Oranmer-road, Cambridge.
Dixon, Hugh N, M.A., F.L.S., East Park Parade, Northampton.
Dobbie, A. W., Gawler-place, Adelaide, South Australia.
Dodge, Miss Mary M. H., 39, Brompton-square, London, S.W.
Dodgson, Rev. Charles Lutwidge, M.A., Christ Church, Oxford.
Donnelly, Mrs., Kendall-street, Cowra, New South Wales.
Dougall, Miss Lily, Canaan-grove, Newbattle-terrace, Edinburgh.
Douglas, Rev.Dr. G. W., 239,Whitney-avenue, Newhaven,Conn.,U.S.A.
Doveton, F. B., Eastcliffe, Babbacombe, South Devon.
Dowson, Mrs., L.K.Q.C.P., L.R.C.S.I., 91, Cheyne-walk, Chelsea, S.W.
Doyle, A. Conan, M.D., Haslemere, Surrey.
Duke, Thomas, M.A., M.R.C.S., 33, Bilton-road, Rugby.
Dulley, Rev. B., M.A., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.
Duncan, Mrs. A.M.A., Victoria Club, 30a, Sackville-st., London, W.
Dunham, Miss Helen, 11, Half-Moon-street, Piccadilly, London, W.
Dutt, R. C., C.LE., Burdwan, Bengal, India.
Dyce, Captain Cecil, (Retired) Bengal Staff Corps, 64, Pembridge
Villas, Notting Hill Gate, London, W.
Eagle, Frederick, Devonia, St. Andrew's-road, Henley-on-Thames.
Eardley, Lady, 4, Lancaster-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Earle, Mrs. C. W., 5, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Edelsten, John A., 31, Bold-street, Warrington.
Egerton, Miss Mary L., Whitwell Hall, York.
366 List of Members and Associates.
Elder, Frederick, 21, Cleveland-gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Elder, Mrs., 38, Hyde Park Gardens, London, W.
Elliot, Gilbert, 10, Hanover-square, London, W.
Elliot, Mrs. Minto, 7, George-street, Hanover-square, W.
Elliot, Miss, Sandecotes, Parkstone, Dorset.
Elliott, Sir Charles Alfred, K.C.S.I., LL.B., Calcutta.
Elliott, Rev. W. A., 54, Kirkgate, Shipley, Yorkshire.
Ellis, John Edward, M.P., 40, Pont-street, London, S.W.
Ellis, Mrs. Robert, 4, Rylett-road, Ravenscourt Park, W.
Ellison, Rev. John H., M.A., The Vicarage, Windsor.
Elvey, Miss Mary M., Finborough-road,West Brompton, London, S.W.
Elworthy, Arthur K., Foxdown, Wellington, Somerset.
Elwyn, Rev. Canon, M.A., Master's Lodge, Charterhouse, London
Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Dulwich, London, S.E.
Ermacora, Dr. G. B , Padua, Italy.
Esterhazy, Count Michael, Cseklesz, Pressburg County, Hungary.
Evans, Kirkham, Adelaide, South Australia.
Fagan, Mrs. L. M., 56, Russell-square, London, W.C.
Falcke, Dudley C, 5, Pump-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Instituto Tecnik, Alessandria.
Farrer, The Lady, Abinger Hall, Dorking.
Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5, John-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Field, Allan B., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Field, E. M., M.A., Cotswold, Bishopswood-road, Highgate, N.
Finch,H.Wynne,JuNR.,M.A.,TheManorHouse,Stokesley,R.S.O.,Yorks.
*Finzi, Dr. George, 11, Monte di Pieta, Milan.
Fisher, Mrs. A. B., 24, Duke's-avenue, Chiswick, near London.
Fisher, Rev. J. Hartman, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas.
FitzGerald.Desmond G., M.S.T.E.,94, Loughborough-rd., Brixton, S.W.
Fletcher, Mrs. K. R., The Orchard, Buckland, nearBetchworth,Surrey.
Florence, Ernest B., 33, Redcliffe-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Flournoy, Professor Th., The University, Geneva.
Ford, Mrs. Gerard, 7, Mandeville-place, London, W.
Forrester, Mrs., Gavell House, Kilsyth, N.B.
Fort, Charles Leyland, B.A., Alderbury House, Salisbury.
Foster, Gerald H., 5, Cleveland-terrace, Hyde Park, W.
Fountain, Alfred, The Elms, Cornwall-road, Uxbridge.
Fox, St. George Lane, Traveller's Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W.
Fraser, Col. A. T., R.E., Bellary, Madras Presidency.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide G, Belgrave Mansions,Grosvenor-gdns., S.W.
Freemann, Rev. H. B., M.A., 1, Soho-square, London, W.
Fry, Lewis George, 13, Thurlow-road, Hampstead, N.W.
Fry, Oliver A., M.A., 141, Portsdown-road, Maida-vale, London, W.
Fry, R. E., B.A., 1, Palace Houses, Bayswater Hill, London, W.
List of Members and Associates. 367
* Fryer, Rev. A. T., 13, Dumfries-place, Cardiff.
Furnivall, Percy, 34, Adelaide-road, London, N.W.
Galloway, The Countess of, 17, Upper Grosvenor-street, W.
Gardiner, Rev. Edward R., M.A., Long Wittenham, Abingdon.
Gardner, Mrs. Ernest, c/o Miss Wilson, 33, Ladbroke-square, W.
Garner, Edwin T., Glendale, Alexandra-road, Selhursfc, Surrey.
Garrard, Mrs., 8, Kensington-court, London, W.
Garth, Henry, M.B., C.M. (Edin.), 4, Harrington-street, Calcutta.
Gernet, Miss Nina, Basseynaya, 33, Lodg.4, St. Petersburg.
Ghose, N. N., the Indian Nation Office, 43, Bancharam Unkoor's-lane,
Calcutta.
Gibotteau, Aime, M.D., Villa Bearnaise, Biarritz.
Gittermann, Rudolph C., Odessa, Russia.
*Glardon, Rev. Auguste, Tour de Peilz, Vaud, Switzerland.
Glover, John J. T., 124, Stephen's Green, W., Dublin.
Godfrey, Mrs., c/oCol. C.W. Godfrey, Bombay StaffCorps, Poona, India.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., M.A., Lambourne Rectory, Romford.
Goodier, Miss B. M., Seighford House, Hardwick-square, Buxton.
Goodman, Louis H., Bertram House, 170, Earl's Court-road, S.W.
*Goodrich-Freer, Miss, 27, Cleveland-gardens, Hyde Park, W.
Goring, Lady, Strettington, Chichester.
Gover, John M., LL.D., 5, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Govett, The Ven. Archdeacon, M.A., Gibraltar.
Graham, Henry R., 8, Marble Arch, London, W.
Graham, J.W., B.A., 7, Barlow-terrace, High-st., C.-on-M., Manchester.
Graham, William W., 4, Elm-court, Temple, London, E.C.
Gray,EDWarDW.,SurGeon-CaPTain,c/oMessrs.Holt,17,Whitehall,S.W.
Green, C. T, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P. (Lond.), 33, Grange-mt., Birkenhead.
Green, Miss Marian, The High School, Spring Mount, Blackburn.
Greener, W. O., 2, Kent Villas, Ealing.
Greig, Rev. David, M.A., Cottenham Rectory, Cambridge.
Greville, Miss C. C., 9, Queen's Gate-place, London, S.W.
Griffith, Miss E. C., 37, York-street, Portman-square, London, W.
Griffith, Mrs. Robert W., The Old House, Llandaff.
Griffiths, Joseph, M.D., F.R.C.S., 4, Kings'-parade, Cambridge.
Grignon, Rev. William S., M.A., Essendon, Hatfield, Herts.
Groom, Ernest, Dothill Park, Wellington, Salop.
*Grubb, Edward, M.A., 5, 22, Crosby-road, Birkdale, Southport.
Grubbe, Hubert H., Shallow, Ongar, Essex.
Gudgeon, James, Stowmarket.
Gcnton, Rev. Charles P., M.A., Farlam Vicarage, Milton, Carlisle. .
Gunton, Rev. P., M.A., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Gumey, Rev. Alfred, M.A., St. Barnabas' Parsonage, Pimlico, S.W.
Gurney, Rev. F., M.A., St. John's Cottage, BoveyTracey, Newton Abbot.
368 List of Members and Associates.
Hackett, James F., B.A., 71, King William-street, Adelaide, Australia.
Haggard, John G., H.B.M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
Haig, Mrs. C. E., Orchardwood, Ascot Heath, Berks.
Hailey, Alfred J., 26, Bruce-road, Willesden, N.W.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E., 3, Pitt-street, Campden Hill, W.
Hall, Wilfred, 9, Prior's-terrace, Tynemouth.
Hall, Mrs., 3, St. Alban's-road, Kensington, London, W.
Hall, Mrs. M. H., Blenheim Lodge, Surbiton.
Hamilton, Colonel G. Rowan, Killyleagh Castle, co. Down, Ireland.
Hamilton, W. Stirling, Woodgaters, Horsham.
Handley, Miss C., M.A., 1, Clarendon-road, Garston, Liverpool.
Hannah, Robert, 82, Addison-road, Kensington, W.
Hansford, Charles, 3, Alexandra-terrace, Dorchester.
Hardcastle, Edward, 29, Mannheim-road, Bradford.
Harding, G. Palmer, Trouville, France.
Hargrave, Joseph G., The Larches, Heaton Mersey, Manchester.
Hargeeaves, Miss, 69, Alexandra-road, Southport.
Harpur, Rev. George, B.A., Clifton Vicarage, Newark.
Harris, Rev. Chas., M.A., The Institute, Mansfield-st., Haggerston, N.E.
Harris, Capt. C. S., Granville House, Richmond Hill, Bournemouth.
Harris, Mrs. Leverton, 4, Green-street, Park-lane, London, W.
Hartley, Lieut.-Colonel J., LL.D., D.L., The Old Downs, Hartley,
near Longfield, Kent.
Hartshorn, Miss C., c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley and Co., London, E.C.
Harvey, Alfred S., Hurstbourne, Bishopswood-road, Highgate, N.
Haslam, Prof. F. W., M.A., Canterbury College, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
Hastie, Miss, 11, Ashburn-place, Cromwell-road, S.W.
Haweis, Miss, 127, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Hay, The Hon. Mrs. Alistair, 8, Upper Belgrave-street, London, S.W.
Hayes, Frederick W., 12, Westcroft-square, Ravenscourt Park, W.
Haywaed, Miss Grace G., 25, St. George's Road, Kilburn, N.W.
Hayward, M. Cecil, Caius College, Cambridge.
Heard, Richard, 37, York-place, Portman-square, London, W.
Hehner, Mrs. Otto, Woodside House, Woodside, South Norwood, S.E.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, 133, Queen's-road, Bayswater, W.
Henley, Hon. Ernest, Watford Court, Rugby.
Henniker-Major, The Hon. Mary, 4, Berkeley-street, Piccadilly, W.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1, Argyll-villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert, Hon. Adberon, M.A., Burley, Ringwood, Hants.
Herringham, Mrs., 22, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Heward, Rev. T. Morley, M.A., 17, Park-st., Dorset-square, N.W.
Hewetson,H.Bendelack, F.L.S.,M.R.C.S.,ll,Hanover-sq.,Leeds.
Hibbs, Reginald R., 13, St. Lawrence-road, North Kensington, W.
List of Members and Associates. 369
Hichens, Rev. Thomas S., Guilsborough Vicarage, Northampton.
Hildyard, P. W., The Shuttleworth Club, Fye Foot-lane, QueenVictoria-
street, E.C.
Hill, Clement Hugh, 63, Church-road, St. Leonards-on-Sea.
Hill, W. Scott, 47, Manor-place, Edinburgh.
Hill-Tout, Charles, Trinity College, Vancouver, B.C.
Hills, Mrs., Corby Castle, Carlisle.
Hodding, Miss, Selwood House, Barnard's Cross, Salisbury.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Hogg, Henry R., M.A., Melbourne Club, Melbourne, Australia.
Hole, Rev. Donald, A.K.C., 2, Busby-place, Camden-road, N.W.
Holland, Hon. Lionel R., M.P., B.A., 58, Conduit-street, W.
Holland, Mrs., Hotel Nervi, Nervi, Genoa.
Holland, Miss, Niddry Lodge, Campden Hill, London, W.
Hollond, John R., M.A., Wonham, Dampton, Devon.
Holstein, Madame Alexandra de, 29, Avenue de Wagrara, Paris.
Hood, H. J., M.A., 115, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Hood, Mrs., 115, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Hooper, Gordon, L.D.S.R.C.S., 21, New Cavendish-st., Harley-st.,W.
Hooper, Mrs. Pitman, 5, Endsleigh-street, Tavistock-square, W.C.
Hopkinson, Prof.Alfred,M.A.,B.C.L., The Lodge, 32, Heme Hill, S.E.
Hopps, John Page, Oak Tree House, South Norwood Hill, London, S.E.
Horne, Alderson B., Ditton-place, Balcombe, Sussex.
Howard, The Lady Mabel, Greystoke Castle, Penrith.
Howe, E. R. J. Gambier, 7, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Howell, Alexander, 109, High-street, Portsmouth.
Huddleston, Mrs., Llwynderw, Welshpool, Montgomeryshire.
Hudson, Norman W., B.A., Pebble Hill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Hughes, Major H. M., F.R.G.S., Rose Bank, Marden Park, Caterham
Valley, Surrey.
Hughes, Mrs., Gwynnondale, Llanarthney, R.S.O., Carmarthenshire.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., B.Sc. (Lond.), The Pines,Worcester Pk.,Surrey.
Humfrey, Miss L. R., 8, Hyde Park Mansions, London, W.
Hunter, Thomas, Arnold House, Rugby.
Hutchins, D. E., Conservator of Forests, Cape Town,
Hutchinson, F.W. H., M.A., Brooklands House, Avenue, Cambridge.
Hutchinson, William B., C.E., F.R.A.S , &c., Southport, Lancashire.
Hyslop, Dr., Bethlem Hospital, London, S.E.
Infield, H. I., 130, North-street, Brighton.
Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingham, Percy B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Innes, Lady, Winslow, Darling Point, Sydney, New South Wales.
Ireland, Wm. W., M.D. (Edin.), Mavisbush, Polton, Midlothian, N.B.
Isaachsen, Rev. Thorveld E., 44, Boompjes, Rotterdam.
370 List of Members and Associates.
Jackson, Rev. F., The Vicarage, Newton-upon-Rawcliffe, Pickering.
Jackson, "William H., M.A., F.L.S., PenWartha, Weston-super-Mare.
Jackson, Miss E. R., S. Hilda's School, Clifton-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Jameson, F., 6, Westbourne Park-villas, London, W.
Jeaffreson, Rev. H. H., M.A., Villa degli Angoli Fiesole, Florence.
Jebb, Rev. H. Gladwyn, M.A., Firbeck Hall, Rotherham.
Jebb, Mrs., Springfield, Newnham, Cambridge.
Jebb, Miss S. G., Overton, Lansdowne-road, Bournemouth.
Jeffreys, Mrs., Glandyfi Castle, Glandovey, R.S.O., North Wales.
"*Jenkins, E. Vaughan, Energlyn, 38, St. Margaret's-road, Oxford.
Jenkinson, Mrs. F. R. G., 112, Sloane-street, London, S.W.
Jessdp, A. E.,Villa St. Dominique, Valescure, St. Raphael, (Var), France.
Jeune, Lady, 37, Wimpole-street, London, W.
Johnes, Mrs., Dolaucothy, Llanwrda R.S.O., South Wales.
Johnson, Miss Alice, Llandaff House, Cambridge.
Johnson, Rev. Waylano, LL.D., Fredon, Sussex Co.,NewJersey, U.S.A.
Johnston, Miss M. F., 22, Earl's Court-square, S.W.
Jones, Captain Henry Michael, V.C., H.B.M. Legation, Lima, Peru.
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
Jones, Professor P., 64, Via Sta- Lucia, Naples.
Joyce, Samuel, Latchford House, Greenheys-lane, Manchester.
Kane, J. G. Auriol, Sloperton Lodge, Kingstown, co. Dublin.
Kay, H. A., 71, Maida-vale, London, W.
Kearne, Percy, 37, Avonmore-gardens, West Kensington, W.
Keene, Rev. James B., M.A., The Rectory, Navan, co. Meath.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, M.A., 26, Vanbrugh-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Kelso, Commander R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester.
Kenmare, The Countess of, Killarney House, Killarney.
Ker, C. B., M.D., Hadley House, Cheltenham.
Kerr, George, M.A., M.B., 6, St. Colme-street, Edinburgh.
*Keulemans, J. G., 13, York-terrace, Brewery-road, Southend.
King, Miss, 50, Gloucester-gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Kinsgbury, George C, M.D., 3, Brighton-parade, Blackpool.
Kingston, H. D. R., M.B., Stormont Lodge, Willesden, N.W.
*Kirk, Joseph, 35, Ripon-road, Plumstead, Kent.
Kluht, Miss H. M. 156, Westbourne-grove, London, W.
Knight, Charles N, M.A., 31, Holland-park, London, W.
Knowles, Ernest, Inglehurst Park-road, Bolton-le-Moors.
Knox, Nathaniel A., Adelaide Club, Adelaide, South Australia.
Knutsford, The Lady, 75, Eaton-square, London, S.W.
Kothen, Baron Axel von, 27, Mikealsgatan, Helsingfors, Finland.
Lach-Szyrma, Rev.W.S., M.A., F.R.H.S.,Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford.
Lafone, A. W., M.P., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
List of Members and Associates. 371
Laing, R.M.,M.A.,B.Sc.,Boys'High School, Christchurch,New Zealand.
Lamplugh, Rev. David, M.A., Rokeby Rectory, Barnard Castle.
Lancaster, Ernest Le C., M. B., Winchester House, Swansea.
Laurie, Prof. H., LL.D., Melbourne.
Leadam, Isaac S., 1, The Cloisters, Temple, E.C.
Leaf, Arthur H., 9, St. Paul's Churchyard, London, E.C.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough.
Leaf, Walter, Litt. D., 6, Sussex-place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Leaf, Mrs. Walter, 6, Sussex-place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Lee, Rev. W. T., 4, Edith-terrace, Mount Gold-road, Plymouth.
Legge, The Lady Frances, Woodsome, Huddersfield.
Leigh, W. Austen, M.A., 2, Norfolk-crescent, Hyde Park, London, W.
Levy, Mrs., 16, Campden House-road, Campden Hill, London, W.
Lewis, C. W. Mansel, Stradey Castle, Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Leycester, Mrs., 6, Cheyne-walk, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Leymarie, P. G., 12, Rue de Sommevard, Paris.
Librarian of the Public Library, Adelaide, South Australia.
Librarian, School of Arts, Brisbane, Queensland.
Librarian of the Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Limond, Miss Catherine, 15, Eaton-terrace, London, S.W.
Linden, Miss Olga, 3, Versailles Road, Anerley, S.E.
Lindsay, Miss Beatrice, Bohemia, Port St. Mary, Isle of Man.
Lindsay, R.,L.R.C.S., M.B., c/o Messrs.Holt & Co.,Whitehall-place, S.W.
Lloyd, Major Francis, 22, Cadogan-square, London, S.W.
Lloyd, Otho Holland, Dombresson, Canton Neuchatel, Switzerland.
Lodge, Professor O. J., D.Sc, F.R.S., 2, Grove-park, Liverpool.
Lodge, Robert, Laurie Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
Loewe, Hugo L., 3, Southampton-street, London, W.C.
Loughnane, John, Clonkeen, Aughrim, Ballinasloe, Ireland.
Lovell, Reginald H., 449, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Lowenfeld, Mrs., 31, Lowndes-square, London, S.W.
Luxmoore, Miss, Bryn Asaph, St. Asaph, North Wales.
Lyall, Miss Frances E., Fetcham, near Leatherhead.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Arthur, The Vicarage, Eccles, Manchester.
Lyttelton, Sybella Lady, 9, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Macalister, Professor A., M.D., F.R.S., Torrisdale, Cambridge.
MacColl, Rev. Canon Malcolm, M.A., Devonshire Club, St.
James's, S.W.
♦Macdonald, Rev, J. A., Broadstairs, Kent.
Mackay, George D., Inveralmond, Cramond, Midlothian, N.B.
Macky, Dr., 4, Curzon-street, Mayfair, W.
Maitland, Edward, B.A., 1, Studio-buildings, Thurloe-square, S.W.
Malden, William E. P., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Manders, H., F.R.C.S., Agincourt House, Yorktown, Farnborough.
372 List of Members and Associates.
*Mangin, Marcet, 102, Rue Erlanger, Paris.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, M.A., Grange House, Chigwell, Essex.
Mantell, Miss Bertha, 5, South Bank-terrace, Surbiton.
Marjoribanks, Lady, Tillmouth Park, Cornhill-on-Tweed, Northumber
land.
Marshall, Arthur, 13, Belsize-avenue, London, N.W.
Marshall, Henry William, Quorn, South Australia.
Marshall, Thomas, Leeds Library, Commercial-street, Leeds.
Marshall, William Cecil, M.A., 28, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78, Vanbrugh-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Martin, Miss A. E., 34, Elvaston-place, Queen's Gate, S.W.
Martin, Miss Florence R., 65, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, 17, Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
Martinez, Mrs., 16b, Hyde Park-mansions, London, W.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Chief Court, Lahore, India.
Mason, Miss M. H., Morton Hall, Retford, Notts.
Massey, Charles C, 1 24, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Mathews,G.B.,B.A.,9,Menai View-terrace,Upper Bangor,NorthWales.
Matthews, Frank H., 22, Wentworth-street, Bolton, Lancashire.
Maud, Miss Constance, Sanderstead Rectory, near Croydon.
Maxwell, Joseph, 37, Rue Thiac, Bordeaux, France.
Mayo, Ernest S. G., 5, Castle-arcade, Cardiff.
Mayor, R. G., King's College, Cambridge.
McAlpine, Mrs., Ardenconnel-row, near Helensburgh, N.B.
McClure, Henry, M.D., Cromer, Norfolk.
McConnel,H.W.,M.A.,M.B.,M.R.C.S..ManorHouse,Ryburgh,Norfolk.
McHugh, P. A., M.P., Sligo.
McKerlie, Miss Helen G., Monkstown, co. Dublin.
McLaren, Mrs. C., 45, Harrington-gardens, London, S.W.
McLaughlin, E. N., Trinity Villa, Spanish Town, Jamaica.
McNeily, A. J. W., Q.C., Supreme Court, St. John's, Newfoundland.
Medeiros e Albuquerque, Jose de, Rua S. Christovam, 36, Rio
Janeiro, Brazil.
Merrilees, J. F., M.D., Auburn, Victoria.
Metcalf, Francis W. R., Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
Micklethwait, Richard K., Ardsley House, Barnsley.
Miles, Miss, Woodhill, Gerrards Cross, Bucks.
Milford, The Lady, 16, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Miller, Mrs. W. Pitt, Merlewood, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Mills, Thomas E., Cabra Parade, Dublin.
Mitchell, Mrs. C. W., 195, Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Mitchiner, J. H., Acacias, Barham Road, South Croydon.
Molesworth, Sir Guilford L., K.C.I.E., Simla, India.
Money, Colonel Gerard Noel, C.B., F.R.G.S.
List of Members and Associates. 373
Money-Coutts, Francis Burdett.Walsingham House, Piccadilly,W.
Montagu.The LadyCecil Scott, The Lodge, Beaulieu,Southampton.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, co. Limerick.
Montgomery, Mrs., 9, Hartley-road, Exmouth.
MoNTMorency,J.E.G.de;B.A.,L.L.B.,20,Old-bldngs.,Lincoln's Inn,W.C.
Mooraj, Fazal G., Gooper's-hill, Staines.
Mooee, Lieut.-General Montgomery, Bellevue, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Mordan, Miss C. E., 15, Queen-square, W.C.
Morgan, Rev. Edward, B.A., Penmark Vicarage, Cowbridge.
Morison, Mrs. Miller, 3, Douglas-crescent, Edinburgh.
Morison, Theodore, M.A., Aligarh, N.W.P., India.
Moul, Mrs., 3, Prince's Mansions, Victoria-street, S.W.
Moulton, Mrs. F. A., care of Low's Exchange, 1,121, Broadway,
New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Mount-Temple, The Lady, Babbacombe Cliffy Torquay.
Moynihan, B. G. A., M.B. (Lond.), The General Infirmary, Leeds.
Munro, H. A, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Lulworth, Bushey Green, Catford.
Munthe, Dr., 26, Piazza di Spagna, Rome.
Murray, Donald, M.A., Sydney Morning Herald Office, Sydney,N.S.W.
Murray, Professor Geo. G. AimE,B.A.,The University, Glasgow, N. B.
Murray, Mrs. G. A., 10, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Murray, Colonel Hugh H., R.A., 28, Gower-street, London, W.C.
Murray, R. M., M.A., M.B., M.R.O.P. (Edin.), 1 l,Chester-st., Edinburgh.
Murray, Sydney J., 70, Cecile-park, Crouch Hill, London, N.
Murray, T. Douglas, Arthur's Club, St. James's-street, London, S.W.
Murray-Aynsley, Mrs., 43, Cromwell-houses, Queen's-gate, S.W.
Myers, Frederic W. H., M.A., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Mylne, Mrs., 83, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Neate, Percy John, F.G.S., M.M.E., 268, High-street, Rochester.
Nelson, Rev. George, LL.D., St. Michael'sVicarage, Bromley, Poplar, E.
Nelson, Mrs. R. A., Redbourne, East Molesey Park, Surrey.
Neville, Francis Henry, M.A., Sidney Sussex College, Cambridge.
Newbold, Miss A., 4, Artillery-buildings, Victoria-street, S.W.
Newmann, Oscar P., 84, Newman-street, London, W.
Newsom, John, The American Trading Company, Yokohama, Japan.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, East Hampton, Suffolk Co., NewYork, U.S.A.
Nicholl, Iltyd B., The Ham, Cowbridge, South Wales.
Nicholls, Rev. T. B., M.A., St. Oswald's College, Tynemouth.
Nicholson, Sir Charles, Bart., D.C.L., LL.D., M.D., The Grange,
Totteridge, Herts.
Nicolson, Sir A., K.C.I.E., C.M.G., British Legation, Tangier, Morocco.
*Nisbet, E. T., 17, Latimer-street, Tynemouth.
Noble, James B., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 167, Kennington Park-road, S.E.
2 c
374 List of Members and Assocvites.
Noel-Cox, Herbert L. N., 2, Edinburgh Mansions, Victoria-st.,S.W.
Norman,Mrs. Herbert G. H.,5,Southwell gdns, S.Kensington, S.W.
Norris, Professor Richard, M.D., F.R.S.E., Birchfield, Aston,
Birmingham.
Norris, William Alfred, Holmwood Lodge, Laton-road, Hastings.
Northcote, Hon. Hugh Oliver, The Hyde, Luton.
Nutter, Mrs., Fairseat, Wrotham, Kent.
Oates, F. Edward, St. Peter's Presbytery, Gloucester.
*Ochorowicz, Dr. J., 23, Rue Vladimir, "Warsaw.
Ogilvie, G. M., c/o Messrs. H. S. King and Co., 45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Ogilvie,Mrs.,c/o Dr. Ogilvie,H.M.Chief Inspectorof Schools,Edinburgh.
Oman, Charles W. O, M.A., All Souls' College, Oxford.
O'Neill, Gregory L.,M.B.,291,Elizabeth-st.,Sydney,NewSouth Wales.
Opie, Edward A. D., J.P., Pirie-street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Pack-Beresford, ]}enis R., Fenagh House, Bagnalstown, Co. Carlow.
Pagan, Miss O, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
Paget, Lady, Villa Bellosguardo, Florence.
Palmer, Miss, 3, Carlisle-place, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Panton, D. Morrieson, 84, Park-street, Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Passingham, Mrs., Fermoyle, Castle Gregory, Co. Kerry.
Pennington, Mrs., c/o William Watson & Co., 28, Apollo-st., Bombay.
Percival, Mrs., 2, Southwick Place, London, W.
Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Islands.
Perry, E. C, M.D., M.A., Superintendent's House, Guy's Hospital, S.E.
Pethybridge, Walter, 3, Rhodesia-road, Clapham Rise, S.W.
Petrovo-SolovovO, Michael, 38, Serghievskaia, St. Petersburg.
Phillips, Rev. J. T., 147, Beaufort-hill, Beaufort, Mon.
Phipps, Miss, Knebworth House, Stevenage, Herts.
Pickering, James R., A.I.E.E., 5, Carew-road, Thornton Heath.
Pilcher, Giles T., 29, Dawson-place, London, W.
Playford, Louis L., P.O. Box, 377, Johannesburg, Transvaal, S. Africa.
Plenderleith, William, 126, Stroud Green-road, Finsbury Park, N.
Podmore, Frank, M.A., 32, Well-walk, Hampstead, N.W.
Pollock, Miss, 50, Weymouth-street, London, W.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs., 2, Wilton-terrace, Belgrave square, S.W.
Ponsonby, Miss, Rye Vale, Leixlip, co. Kildare.
Pontifex, Miss, 72, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Pope, George H., M.A., B.C.L., Merchants' Hall, Bristol.
Portal, Miss V., 8, Beaufort-gardens, London, S.W.
Porter, Mrs., Sydney House, Westcliffe-road, 'Bournemouth.
*Porter, Miss, 16, Russell-square, London, W.C.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, 2, Abbey-gardens, Westminster, S.W.
Postgate, Professor J. P., Litt.D., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Powell, Miss Constance M., 5, Campden Hill-square, London, W.
List of Members and Associates. 375
Powell, George Thompson, Rotherwood, Sydenham Hill, S.E.
Powles, Lewis Charles, M.A., 9, Queen's Gate-place, London, S.W.
Powys, Hon. Mrs. Fox, 29, Albion-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Praed, Mrs. Campbell, 16, Talbot-square, Hyde Park, London, W.
Pribitkof, V., 67, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Pullen, Miss, Milton View, Elsecar, Barnsley, Yorkshire.
Pumphrey, Mrs., Derwent-hill, Ebchester, co. Durham.
Purdie, Mrs., 27, Palace-court, London, W.
Pym, Mrs. Angela, Bankside, Lunham-road, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Radnor, The Countess of, 52, Grosvenor-street, London, W.
Ramsay, Professor William, Ph.D., F.R.S., 12, Arundel-gardens, W.
Ramsay, Lady, 23, Draycot-place, Cadogan-gardens, London, S.W.
Raper, R. W., M.A., Trinity College, Oxford.
Raupert, Rev. J. G. F., 30, Belsize-square, London, N.W.
Rayleigh, Clara Lady, 90, Onslow-gardens, London, S.W.
Reade, Herbert V., 6, Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, London, W.
Reichel, Principal H. R., M.A., University College, Bangor.
Reynolds, Colonel H. C., Thorncliffe, Cheltenham.
Reynolds, Mrs., Millington House, Thelwall, near Warrington.
Richardson, Frederic William, F.C.S., 2, Farcliffe-place, Bradford.
Richardson, Miss J., 72, Hamilton-terrace, London, N.W.
Riddiford, Mrs. W. H, Chalfont, Barnwood, near Gloucester.
Ridley, Henry N., M.A., F.L.S., 17, Margaret^street, London, W.
Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham-gardens, London, N.W.
Robb, Mrs., 46, Rutland Gate, London, S.W.
Robbins, Rev. John, D.D., St. George's Vicarage, Campden-hill, W.
Roberts, William Johnson, 146, Pembroke-road, Dublin.
Roberts, Rev. W. W., 39, Addison-gardens, Kensington, W.
Robertson, C. Lockhart, M.D., GunsGreen,The Drive,Wimbledon.
Robertson, George M., M.B., Royal Asylum, Morningside, Edinburgh.
Robertson, Mrs., Nether Scale Hall, Ashby-de-la-Zouch.
Robertson, Miss N., Alfriston House, Alfriston, Sussex.
Robertson-Macdonald, Mrs., 35,Tregunter-rd.,South Kensington, S.W.
Robin, Percv A., B.A., George-street, Parkside, Adelaide, Australia.
Robinson, Edward, C.E., F.R.A.S., 4, Castelnau-gardens, Barnes, S.W.
Robinson, Lady, 4, Belgrave-place, London, S.W.
Robinson, Dr. William Newman, Kadina, South Australia.
Rodewald, Alfred E., The Albany, Liverpool.
Roger, W. Wallace, 31, Tavistocksquare, London, W.C.
^Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose Villa, Church End, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Rev. E. H., M.A., Thames Ditton, Kingston-on-Thames.
Rogers, George F., M.D., London Hospital, Whitechapel-road, E.
Rogers, R. S., M.C., Finders-street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Roome, Henry A., J.P., Oudenarde, Victoria-road, Southsea.
2 c 2
376 List of Members and Associates.
Ross, A. Gait, 7, Edinburgh-terrace, Victoria-road, London, W.
Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5, Hamilton-place, London, W.
Roxburgh, R., M.B., F.R.C.S.E., 1, Victoria-bdgs.,Weston-super-Mare.
Riicker, Professor A. W., F.R.S., 19, Gladhow-gardens, S.W.
Rushton, C. H., 7, Queen Elizabeth's-walk, Stoke Newington, N.
Russell, Mrs. Campbell, Golden Mead, Chislehurst. ■ •
Russell, John, B.A., University Hall, Gordon-square, London, W.O.
Rylands,T.G., F.L.S.,F.G.S.,Highfields, Thelwall, nearWarrington.
Sajous,CharLesE.deM.,M.D.,2,043,Walnut-street,Philadelphia,TJ.S.A.
Salmond, Percy N., Captain 3rd Royal Scots, 1, Easby Drive, Ilkley.
Samaldas, Lalubhai, Chief Revenue Officer, Bhavnager, Bombay
Presidency, India.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Hayward's Heath.
Sams, Rev. George F., M.A., Emberton Rectory, Newport Pagnell.
Sanger, Charles Percy, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Saunders, Latimer Henry, Trevone House, Padstow.
Schram, Miss Lilian M.E., 178, Earl's Court-road, London, S.W.
Schreiber, Major, 27, Fopstone-road, Earl's Court, London, S.W.
Schuster, Miss, 22, Old Queen-street, Westminster, S.W.
Schwabe, Mrs. G. S., c/o Major-General Schwabe, G.O.C. Mauritius.
Scott, Sydney C, Hatherleigh, 28, The Avenue, Gipsy Hill, London.
Scripps, T. Cecil, 4, Drapers'-gardens, London, E.C.
*Scudamore, Mrs., 3, Tollington-park, Holloway, London, N.
Seilern, Count Charles, 23, Wolmersley-road, Stroud Green, N.
Sellin, Professor C. W., 5, Wrangelstrasse, Hoheluft, Hamburg.
Selous, Edmund, Wamil Hall, Mildenhall, Suffolk.
Seymour, Captain Edward H., R.N., 9, Ovington-square, S.W.
Shadwell, Miss Blanche, Trewollack, Bodmin.
Shand, Alexander F., 1, Edwardes-place, Kensington, W.
Sharpe, J. W., M.A., Woodroffe, Portarlington-road, Bournemouth.
Shaw, Rev. Charles J. M., The Orchard, Swanley, Kent.
Shaw, Mrs. W. N., Emmanuel House, Cambridge.
Sheavyn, Robert F., Long-street, Atherstone.
Sheldon, Mrs. L. V., 52, Queen's-rd., Marlborough-rd., London, N.W.
*Shield, Mrs., Bowers Gifford Rectory, Essex.
Shove, Miss E.,K.Q.C.P.I.,M.B.,25,St.Mark's-cres.,Regent'sPk.,N.W.
*Shufeldt, Dr. R.W.,SmithsonianInstitution,Washington,D.C.,U.S.A.
Sidgwick, Arthur, M.A., 64, Woodstock-road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 29, Gloucester-square, London, W.
Sidgwick, Professor Henry, Newnham College, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Mrs. H., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Sims, F. Manley, F.R.C.S., 12, Hertford-street, Mayfair, W.
Sisley, Richard, M.B., Park-row, Knightsbridge, London, W.
Skeffington, Joseph B., M.A., LL.D.,Downpatrick, co. Down, Ireland.
List of Members and Associates. 377
Skene, Miss F. M. F., 13, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Sloman, Samuel George, Junr., 39, West-street, Farnham.
Smith, Mrs. Apsley, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Smith, G. Albert, St. Ann's Well, Brighton.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Amble, Northumberland.
Smith, Henry Arthur, Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
Smith, H. Babington, B.A., Government House, Calcutta.
Smith, John George, 4, Wilton-street, London, S.W.
Smith, Miss J. M., Hyde Park Court, Albert Gate, London, W.
Smith, Martyn, Abberton Hall, Pershore.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson-place, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Smith, R. Pearsall, 44, Grosvenor-road, London, S.W.
Smith, Wallace A., 34, Devonshire-street, Portland-place, London, W.
Smith, Mrs , Barnes Hall, Sheffield.
Snape, Mrs., Markland Hill, Heaton, Bolton.
Snow, Chester A., 712, Eighth-street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Somerset, The Lady Henry, The Priory, Reigate.
Speer, Mrs. Stanhope, Fairholme, Ventnor, Isle of Wight.
Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Spencer, Miss Georgiana M., 25, York-street, Portman-square, W.
Sperling, Arthur, J.P., Lattenbury Hill, St. Ives, Hunts.
Spinks, Judge, Vernon, British Columbia.
Squarey, Andrew T., J.P., Gorsey Hey, Bebington, Birkenhead.
St. George, Mrs., 2, Jervis-place, Clonmel, Ireland.
Stainforth, Miss Emily, 15, Matheson-road, West Kensington, W.
Stanley, Henry M., M. P., D.C L. , LL. D.,2,Richmond-terrace, S.W.
Stanway, Miss Emily, 17, Park-street, Taunton.
Stapley, Richard, 33, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Stapley, Mrs., 33, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Stead, William T., Cambridge House, Wimbledon, S.W.
Steam, H. T., M A., King's College, Cambridge.
Stephenson,SirAugustusK.,KCB.,Q.C.,46,Ennismore-gdns,S.W.
Stepney, Hon. Lady, 3, Chesham-street, London, S.W.
Stevenson, Andrew, M.A., 16, Warrender Park Crescent, Edinburgh.
Stevenson, George, c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., Hastings-st., Calcutta.
Stewart, Mrs. Charlotte A., Largham, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Miss Susan, 89, Philbeach-gardens, London, S.W.
Stirling, J. M. Morries, Gogar House, Stirling, N.B.
Stone, Mrs. C. H, Boulevard Mont Parnasse, Paris.
Stopp, Paul, c/o Dresdner Bank, Dresden, Germany.
Stout, George F., M.A,, St. John's College, Cambridge.
Sturges, Mrs William, 32, Charles-street, Berkeley-sq., London, W.
Sturgis, Julian, M.A., 2, Gloucester-place, Portman-sq., London, W.
S7S List of Members and Associates.
*Sugden, Rev. E. H., B.A., B.Sc., Bradford, Yorkshire.
Sullivan, W. R. Washington, Purleybury, Purley, Surrey.
Summerson, Samuel J., West House, Darlington.
Swan, 0. A., 10, Delamere-street, London, S.W.
Swanwick, Miss Anna, 23, Cumberland-terrace, London, N.W.
Sweeting, Richard, D.H., B.A., D.P.H., 6, Hereford Mansions, Here
ford-road, Bayswater, W.
Swire, Commander Herbert, R.N..H.M. Coastguard,Berwick-on-Tweed.
Symes, Ronald, M.A., West Down, Mulgrave-road, Sutton, Surrey.
Symons, Miss Jessie H., 91, Wigmore-street, London, W.
Synge, Rev. P., M.A., 1, Daleham-gardens, South Hampstead, N.W.
Szentirmay de Darvasto, Bela Maria Joseph de, Austro-Hun-
garian Consulate, Bucharest.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., 131, Ashley-gardens, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Talbot, The Lady Edmund, 26, Curzon-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Tanner, Ernest, Hazlehurst, Penarth.
Tanner, Slingsby, 104b, Mount-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Tattersall, James Granville, Hanover-square Club, London, W.
Tattersall, Robert W., 31, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Tattersall, Wm., 90, High-street, Oxford.
Taunton, Mrs. R. H, Brook Vale, Witton, near Birmingham.
Taxis, The Princess, Grosse Mohrengasse, Vienna.
Taylor, Rev. Arnold D., B.A., Churchstanton Rectory,Honiton, Devon.
Taylor, Rev. Charles J., M.A., The Larches, Banstead, Surrey.
Taylor, Miss Edith, 9, Milner-square, London, W.
Taylor, Lieut.-Col. G. L. Le M., Minsterworth, Old Bath-road,
Cheltenham.
Tebb, A. E., M.D., 9, Langland-place, Finchley-road, Hampstead, N.W.
Tebb, Mrs., Rede Hall, near Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Terrill, George Morton, M.D., 336, Post-street, San Francisco,
California, U.S.A., (President of the California Psychical Society).
Thackeray, Mrs. W. G., 32, Kidbrooke Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville-park, Lewisham, S.E.
Thomas, A. C., Korumburra, Gippsland, Victoria, Australia.
Thomas, Joseph William, F.I.C.,F.C.S., Drumpellier, Gloucester.
Thompson, I. O, F.L.S., P.R.M.S., 53, Croxteth-road, Liverpool.
Thomson, Prof. J. J., M.A., F.R.S., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Thurstan, P.W., M.A., Hertford Lodge, Albert-bridge, Battersea, S.W.
Tooth, Rev. Arthur, M.A., Woodside, Croydon.
Traherne, Mrs., 16, King's-gardens, Brighton.
Trench, J. Townsend, J.P., Kenmare, Ireland.
Trevor, Rev. Thomas Waruetj, M.A., Penmon Vicarage, Beaumaris.
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 88, Park-street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Tuker, Miss Mildred A.R., 4, Oxford and Cambridge Mansions, N.W.
List of Members and Associates. 379
Turnill, Hkney, Heathside, Crayford, Kent.
Tweedale, Mrs., Milton Hall, Cambridgeshire.
Tweedie, David M., Adelaide, South Australia.
Tyrer, Mrs. W., Woodleigh, Prescot.
Vacher, William H., 54, Addison Mansions, Kensington, S.W.
Vailati, Professor Giovanni, Cretna, Italy.
Van Eeden, Frederick, M.D., Bussum, Holland.
Van Gruisen, Mrs. A. H., Alcira, Bidston-road, Oxton, Cheshire.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 251, Keisersgracht, Amsterdam.
Venn, J., D.Sc., F. R.S., Caius College, Cambridge.
Verrall, Mrs., Selwyn-gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., 26, Gloucester-place, Brighton.
Vian-Williams, Rev. H., 3, Waterloo-place, North Shields.
Vickers, Mrs., 26, Queen's Gate-gardens, London, S.W.
Villamarina, The Marchesa di, Palazza Reale, Quirinale, Rome.
Vincent, Maria Lady, Park Cottage, Sheen Gate, S.W.
Wade, Rev. William, 19, St. Charles'-square, North Kensington, W.
Walford, Col. Neville L., R.A., 1, Ashbum place, London, S.W.
Walker, Mrs. Emma, Priors Barton, Winchester.
Walker, Mrs. Stewart, Shrewsbury House, Oxton, Cheshire.
Wall, Miss M. M., Pioneer Club, 22, Bruton-street, Berkeley-square,W.
Wallace, Abraham, M.D., 39, Harley-street, London, W.
Wallop, Rev. Edward, Missionary Coll., Burgh le Marsh, R.S.O., Line.
Warburton, Rev. W. T., M A., St. James's Vicarage, Congleton.
Ward, Wilfrid, Molescroft, Eastbourne.
Ward, The Hon. Miss, Castle Ward, Downpatrick.
Wardrop, Mrs., 10, Lower Belgrave-street, Eaton-square, S.W.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 87, Eaton-square, London, S.W.
Warter, M rs. Tatham, Longden Manor, Pontesford, Salop.
Wassell, H. A., P.R.A.S.,Addenbrook Villa,01d Swinford,Stourbridge.
Watson, Mrs. W. C., Colworth, Bedford.
Way, William R., Hillside, Upminster, Essex.
Webber-Smith, Colonel James, 27, Shaftesbury-avenue, London, W.
Webb, Godfrey, 13, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Wedd, N., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Welldon, Rev. J. E. C, M.A., Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Wells, Edmund P., C.E., 26, Cambridge-gardens, N. Kensington, W.
Wells, Miss Grenville, 27, Westbourne-square, London, W.
Westcott, WilliamWynn,M.B.,D.P.H,396, Camden-road, London, N.
Westlake, Ernest, F.G.S.,Vale Lodge, Hampstead Heath, N.W.
Westlake, Mrs. Ernest, Vale Lodge, Hampstead Heath, N.W.
Wherry, G. E., F.R.C.S., Corpus-buildings, Cambridge.
Whishaw, Mrs. Beknhard, 173, Maida Vale, London, W.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
380 List of Members and Associates
Whitear, Rev. W., B.A., 5, St. Andrew's-road, Enfield.
Whitehead, John, Esplanade, Guernsey.
Whitehead, Miss Mercia D., Mostyn House, Cambridge.
Whiting, J. Markby, 58, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone.
Wigglesworth, Alfred, 34, Mecklenburgh-square, London, W.C.
Wilberforce, Rev. Canon Basil, M.A., 20, Dean's Yard, London.
Willan, Miss F. M., Mayfield House, Old Ford-rd., Bethnal Green, E.
Willard, Miss Frances E., Rest Cottage, Evanston, Chicago, U.S.A.
Willett, Mrs., Bedales, Lindfield, near Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 9, Upper Beulah-hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Williams, J. Leon, D.D.S., L.D.S., 30, George-street, Hanover-sq., W.
Williams, Rev. Nelson G.,M.A., Ketteringham,Wymondham, Norfolk.
Williams, Miss S., The Reservoir, Edgbaston, near Birmingham.
Willmott, Miss R., Warley Place, Great Warley, Essex.
Wilson, Miss, 7, Cromwe 11-terrace, Scarborough.
Wilson, David H., M.A., Dunridge, West Hill, St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
Wilson, Charles M., Edinburgh Hotel, St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
Winchester, H., M.B.,C.M., Oak Bank, Fort Augustus, Inverness,N.B.
Windeyer, The Hon. W. C. Justice, Supreme Court, Sydney, Australia.
Wingfield, H. E., M.A., 58, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
*Wingfield, Mrs., Belvidere Place, Church-road, Wimbledon.
Wisden, Lieut. Thomas F. M., Broadwater, near Worthing.
Witherby, Arthur George, B. A., 8, Kensington Palace-gardens, S.W.
Withers, J. J.,B.A., 2, Museum Chambers, Bury-st., Bloomsbury, W.C.
Woeikow, Alexis, Moika 28, St. Petersburg.
Wood, Rev. Canon, M.A., Newent Rectory, Gloucestershire.
Woodd, Mrs. Basil, Leckby, Hollington Park, St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
Woodhouse, G. H., Heath Bank, Bolton.
Wright, Mrs. Almroth E., Ingleside, Netley, Hants.
Wyld, George, M.D., Fieldhead, Wimbledon Park, S.W.
Wyndham, Hon. Percy, 44, Belgrave-square, London, S.W.
Yearsley, P. Macleod, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Chalk-hill House, Kings-
bury-Neasden, N.W.
Yorke, Hon. Alexander, 32a, Orchard-street, London, W.
Young, Prof. W. H., 883, East Main-street, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
Young, Mrs. W. R., Liscoom, Ballymena, co. Antrim.
N.B.—Members and Associates are requested to send information of any
change of address to the Assistant-Secretary, 19, Buckingham Street,
Adelphi, London, W.C.
List of Members and Associates. 381
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
(March, 1897.)
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
All Addresses are " U.S.A." except when another Country is named.
Abbott, Henry W., 11, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Abbott, Lawrence P., 13, Astor-place, New York, N.Y.
Albery, Mrs. H. M., Colusa, Colusa Co., Cal.
Albree, John, Junr., Swampscott, Mass.
Albree, Joseph, 20, Market-street, Allegheny, Pa.
Alden, F. E., Vandergrift Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Alden, Henry M., Metuchen, New Jersey.
Alexander, Don, 253, Fourth-avenue, Louisville, Ky.
♦Alexander, Mrs. Kezia E., Birmingham, Mich.
Alexander, W. L., Canton, Ohio.
Ames, Professor Daniel T., 202, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Anderson, Professor A. W., Macalester College, St. Paul, Minn.
Arguelles, Don Pedro, Collector of Customs, N. Laredo, Mexico.
Atwood, Dr. G. Wilson, 17, Tremont-street, Boston, Mass.
Ayer, J. C., M.D., Bellevue Hospital, New York, N.Y.
Baker, Alfred L., 100, Washington-street, Chicago, 111.
Baldwin, Elbert F., 13, Astor-place, New York, N.Y.
Bancroft, Mrs. John C., 61, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Barrows, C. M., 58, University-road, Brookline, Mass.
Bartlett, James W., 211, Central-avenue, Dover, N.H.
Bates, Charles F., 2,642, Euclid-avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Beale, Rev. Chas. H., 33, Waverly-street, Roxbury, Boston, Mass.
Beam, Mrs. John V., Jr., 10, West 30th-street, New York, N.Y.
Belden, Mrs. Amanda W., 4,722, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Berryhill, Mrs. James G., Des Moines, Iowa.
382 List of Members and Associates.
Best, Mes. Albert S., 15, W. 121st-street, New York, N.Y.
Bigelow, Dr. W. S., 60, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Blodgett, O, M.D., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass.
Blodgett. Mrs., 238, Maple-street, Holyoke, Mass.
Boardman, Hon. W. F., Department of the Interior, Ottawa, Canada.
Boon, Mrs. E. G., Molino di Sopra, Alassio, Liguria, Italy.
Booth, Mrs. Lucy C., Great Barrington, Mass.
Both-Hendriksen, Miss Louise, 166, Macon-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Bowditch, C. P., 28, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Bowditch, Professor H. P., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass.
Brimmer, Mrs. Martin, 47, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama.
Brooks, Henry, 115, Milk-street, Boston, Mass.
Brown, Alfred S., 195, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Brown, Miss Anna R., 115, South 21st-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Brown, Edmond C., 132, Nassau-street, New York, N.Y.
Brown, Henry T., Hillcrest, Winchester, Mass.
Brown, Rev. Howard N, 9, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass.
Browne, G. H, 16, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Bryan, W., Houston, Texas.
Buffet, Dr. E. P., 520, Bergen-avenue, Jersey City Heights, N. J.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Bulley, R. H, Canton, Ohio.
Bundy, Mrs. John O, 624, Sheridan-square, Evanston, 111.
Butler, Miss Virginia, 31, East 69th-street, New York, N.Y.
Cabot, Caroline A., M.D., 168, West-48th Street, New York, N.Y.
Carey, A. A., 29, Fairfield-street, Boston, Mass.
Carey, Mrs. Arthur A., 29, Fairfield-street, Boston, Mass.
Carnochan, Gouverneur M., 46, Exchange-place, New York, N.Y.
Carpenter, Franklin R., M.A., Ph.D., Deadwood, South Dakota.
Carpenter, Mrs. Franklin R., Deadwood, South Dakota.
Carpenter, W. O., 517, Adams-street, Chicago, 111.
Carr, Lucien, 163, Brattle-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Carr, Robert S., Hamilton, Ohio.
Casey, Theodore B., 169, Park-street, Newton, Mass.
Catlin, Captain R., 1,428, Euclid-place, Washington, D.C.
Caulkins, Silas, 310, Requena-street, Los Angeles, California.
Chapman, John Jay, 325, West 82nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Chard, Thomas S., 534, North State-street, Chicago, 111.
Chase, Harvey S., 12, Newbury-street, Boston, Mass.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., Hotel Bristol, Boston, Mass.
Chick, Frank W., Madrid, Franklin Co., Maine.
Child, S. R., Lumber Exchange, Minneapolis, Minn.
List of Members and Associates. 383
Claypole, Professor E. W., 603, Buchtel-avenue, Akron, Ohio.
Cleaves, N. Porter, 29, India-street, Boston, Mass.
Clement, Miss Caroline H., Rutland, Vermont.
Clough, Albert L., Box 114, Manchester, N.H.
Clough, H. W., Nashville, Tenn.
Cockerill, Mrs. R. D., Glasgow, Mo.
Coffin, Abraham B., Winchester, Mass.
Coffin, C. P., Longwood, Brookline, Mass.
Coleman, Miss Anne C., Lebanon, Pennsylvania.
*Coleman, "William Emmette, Chief Quartermaster's Office, Phoenix
Building, San Francisco, Cal.
ConNbr,Mes.E.A.,Am.PressAssociation,47, Park-place,NewYork, N.Y.
Cook, Mrs. Ellen K., 128, West 6th-street, Davenport, Iowa.
Cook, R. Harvey, M.D., Oxford Retreat, Oxford, Ohio.
Cooke, Dr. Joseph B., 269, West 138th-street, New York, NY.
Coonley, Mrs. John O, 620, Division-street, Chicago, 111.
Cope, Professor Edward D., 2,102, Pine-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Coryell, V. M., 310, Sixth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Crafts, Prof. James M., 59, Mar-lborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Crepin, Ernest E., 4,726, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Crosby, Mrs. Eleanor F., Gardner-road, Brookline, Mass.
Crosby, Professor W. O., Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Crothers, Dr. T. D., Walnut Lodge, Hartford, Conn.
Curran, Richard L., 60, Oneida-street, Utica, N.Y.
Currie, Rev. C. George, D.D., 1,014, St. Paul-street, Baltimore, Md.
Curtis, W. E., 1,228, Connecticut-avenue, Washington, D.C.
Dawson, Miles M.,- 136, Liberty-street, New York, N.Y.
Delabarre, Prof. E. B., 9, Arlington-avenue, Providence, R.I.
Derby, Captain George McO, 3,232, Prytania-st., New Orleans, La.
Dewing, O. M., M.D., State Hospital, King's Park, Long Island, N.Y.
Dexter, Mrs. George, Egmont-street, Brookline, Mass.
Dickerman, Rev. W. F., 276, Orange street, New Haven, Conn.
Dickey, Calvin, M.A., Room 22, 94, Washington-street, Chicago, 111.
Dike, Miss Florence B., 156, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Dillard, Prof. J. H, Tulane University, New Orleans, Louisiana.
Dimmock, George, 38, Grant-street, Springfield, Mass.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass.
Dodge, J. T., 346, West Washington-avenue, Madison, Wis.
Dorr, Mrs. C. H, 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dorr, George B., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dow, Alexander, 1, West 83rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Dyer, Walter H, Knightsville, Maine.
Edmunds, Miss L., c/o Dr. R. Hodgson, 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass
Edwards, Mrs. Mary H., 161, Main-street, Keene, N.H.
384 List of Members and Associates.
Eldridge, Prof. E. H., The Temple College, Broad & Berks-streets,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Ellis, Miss Lucy, 480, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Esty, Professor William C., Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
Etheridge, Miss Fanny S., 1,634, Michigan-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Evans, Miss Ella K., 186, North-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Evans, Mrs. Glendower, 12, Otis-place, Boston, Mass.
Everett, Professor C. C, 53, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Farmer, Miss Sarah J., Eliot, Maine.
Felton, Thomas C, Hotel Ludlow, Boston, Mass.
Fields, Mrs. James T., 148, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Fillebrown, Thos., M.D., D.M.D., 157, Newbury-street, Boston, Mass.
Finnigan, John, 61, Beekman-street, New York, N.Y.
Fletcher, Horace, 323, Baronne-street, New Orleans, Louisiana.
Fluhrer, Rev. Charles, D.D., 95, Main-street, Albion, N.Y.
Forman, G. A., 824, Delaware-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Fullerton, C. W^, 94, Dearborn-street, Chicago, 111.
Fullerton, Professor G. S., Univ. of Penn., West Philadelphia, Pa.
Gage, Lyman J., 470, North State-street, Chicago, 111.
Gale, Prof. Harlow S., Univ. of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Gardiner, Dr. Edward G., 131, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 23, Craft's Avenue, Northampton, Mass.
Gardiner, J. Hays, Grays, 18, Harvard Univ., Cambridge, Mass.
Gardner, Mrs. John L., 152, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Gay, Walter, 73, Rue Ampere, Paris, France.
Gehring, Albert, 626, Pearl-street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Gerrish, Dr. F. H., 675, Congress-street, Portland, Maine.
Gleason, Adele A., M.D., The Sanitarium, Elmira, N.Y.
Goddard, George A., 1, Mount Vernon-place, Boston, Mass.
Goodale, Henry Sterling, 400, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Goodnow, H. R., 95, Riverside Drive, New York.
Goodridge, Mrs. Frederick, 250, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Gorton, Dr. D. A., 174, Clinton-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Gray, Mrs. John C., 176, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Greene, Bertram, 6, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass.
Gridley, J. N, Virginia, 111.
Griffin, Rev. R. A., P.O. Box 6, South Billerica, Mass.
Griffing, Mrs. C. R., c/o Dr. H Griffing, 55,W. 47-st., New York, N.Y.
Gross, Mrs. S. E., 48, Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, 111.
Grower, George G., Ansonia Brass and Copper Co., Ansonia, Conn.
Hall, A. D.,M.A., Morgan Hall, 1,713, Nicollet-ave., Minneapolis, Minn.
Hall, Professor James, Room 32, State Hall, Albany, N.Y.
Hall, James P., 6, Poplar-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Hall, Dr. T. P., Tabor, Fremont Co., Iowa.
List of Members and Associates. 385
Hamilton, C. M., 50, Main-street, Salamanca, N.Y.
Hapgood, Mrs. Charles H., Alton, HI.
Hardaway, W. A., M.D., 2,922, Locust-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Harden, Judge William D., Savannah, Georgia.
Harris, William T., LL.D., 1,303, P.-street, N.W. Washington, D.C.
Hartshorne, Charles H., 57, Bentley-avenue, Jersey City, N.Y.
Hartzell, F. S., 96, North Walnut-street, Canton, Ohio.
Harvey, Anson B., M.A., 140, North 16th-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hawk, Walter S., Doniphan, Nebraska.
Haworth, George D., Decatur, 111.
Haynes, Henry W., 239, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Hayward, Alvinza, 532, Market-street, San Francisco, Cal.
Heilner, Rev. S. A., D.D., 1,410, Christian-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hemenway, Augustus, Readville, Mass.
Heywood, Charles, Gardner, Mass.
Hicks, Benj. D., Old Westbury, Queen's Co., N.Y.
Higbee, Col. George H., Burlington, Iowa.
Hill, Mrs. A. S., 9, Massachusetts-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Hodgson, Dr. Thomas, Astolat, Chapman-street, North Melbourne,
Victoria, Australia.
Holbrook, Levi, P. O. Box 536, New York, N.Y.
Holbrook, Dr. M. L., 46, East 21st-street, New York, N.Y.
Holladay, Prof. Waller, 400, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Holmes, Mrs. Julia Sadler, 28, West 120th-st., New York, N.Y.
Holmes, Rev. S. V. V., Westminster Church, Buffalo, N.Y.
Holt, Henry, 29, West 23rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Holt, L. Emmett, M.D., 15, East 54th-street, New York, N.Y.
Hooper, Miss E. R., 141, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Hope, Robert, Gen. Theological Seminary, Chelsea-sq., New York, N.Y.
Hoskin, John, 4,100, Locust-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Householder, Frank, Kansas City Stock Yards, Kansas City, Mo.
Howland, Miss B. M., cor. Carver and Museum-sts., Cambridge, Mass.
Hudson, Thomson Jay, 10, Ninth-street, S.E., Washington, D.C.
Hull, Miss P. C., 22, John-street, Providence, R.I.
Hunt, Chas. R., M.D., 262, Union-street, New Bedford, Mass.
Huse, Wm., Ponca, Dixon Co., Nebraska.
Hutchinson, Miss Mary S., 2,006, De Lancey-place, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hyslop, Professor J. H, Columbia College, New York, N.Y.
Jackson, Mrs. Louisa S., 16, Rue Auguste Vacqueria, Paris, France.
James, Dr. H. F., 2,627, Olive-street, St. Louis, Mo.
James, Professor William, 95, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Jefferson, J., Buzzard's Bay, Mass.
Jenks, Mrs. P. A., 290, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
386 List of Members and Associates.
Jewett, Miss S. 0., South Berwick, Maine.
Johnson, Charles R., Box 492, 405, Main-street, Worcester, Mass.
Johnson, Professor Roger B. C., Miami University, Oxford, Ohio.
Joline, Mrs. Adrian H., 1, West 72nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Jones, Miss Alice, Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Jones, George H., 561, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Jones, Miss Therese E., Box 566, Los Angeles, Cal.
Kennedy, Miss Leila M., 715, Forman-park, Syracuse, N.Y.
Kidd, G. W., 853, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Kimball, Dr. F. H., Rockford, 111.
Kimball, Miss Hannah P., 325, Commonwealth-ave., Boston, Mass.
Kinney, Thomas W., 220, East Third-street, Portsmouth, Ohio.
Knowles, Rev. Edward R., LL.D., West Sutton, Mass.
Kopta, Madame Flora P., Gut Podmok in Podmok, Post Shutten-
hofen, Bohemia, Europe.
Krebs, Rev. Stanley L., Reading, Pa.
Kuhn, Hamilton, 36, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Lamont, Robert G., 68, St. James's-place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Lane, Charles D., Angels Camp, Calaveras County, California.
Lane, Mrs. Charles D., Angels Camp, Calaveras County, California.
Langley, Professor S. P., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Lawrence, A. E., Junr., 53, Devonshire-st, Room 15, Boston, Mass.
Lawton, Miss Elizabeth, 142, East 18th-street, New York, N.Y.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, New York, N.Y.
Leonard, Thomas, 628, 22nd-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine.
Librarian, Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania.
Librarian, Cambridge Public Library, Cambridge, Mass.
Librarian, Cassadaga Lake Library Association, Lily Dale, N.Y.
Librarian, Cazenovia Public Library, Cazenovia, N.Y.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich.
Librarian, Haverhill Public Library, Haverhill, Mass.
Librarian, Lowell City Library, Lowell, Mass.
Librarian, Maiden Public Library, Maiden, Mass.
Librarian, Metropolitan Club Library, Washington, D.C.
Librarian, Michigan State Library,.Lansing, Mich.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111.
Librarian, Public Library, Minneapolis, Minn.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y.
Librarian, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
Librarian, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Lippitt, General Francis J., Annapolis, Maryland.
List of Members and Associates. 387
Llewellyn, F. T., B.A., C.E., 1,012, Hennen-bldg., New Orleans, La.
Lockwood, Colonel J. S., 146, Franklin-street, Boston, Mass.
Logan, W. S., 58, William-street, New York, N.Y.
Lombardi, C., 1,314, Rusk-avenue, Houston, Texas.
Long, George E., Box D., Jersey City, N.J.
Lounsberry, C. A., c/o The Record, Fargo, North Dakota.
Low,Clarence F., Common and Carondelet-sts.,New Orleans, Louisiana.
Lukens, Dr. Anna, 1,068, Lexington-avenue, New York, N.Y.
MacDonough, Thomas B., 1,227, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Magoun, Walter Russell, 47, Tremont-street, Boston, Mass.
Main, F., cor. College and Dubuque-streets, Iowa City, Iowa.
Marchand, G. L., 112, Clark-street, Room 516, Chicago, 111.
Martin, Miss Emma H., 71, Scio-street, Rochester, N.Y.
Marvin, Walter T., 6, West 130th-street, New York, N.Y.
Mason, Miss Ellen F., 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, Miss Ida M., 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, R. Osgood, M.D., 348, Wedt 58th-streefc, New York, N.Y.
McClellan, Mrs. Clara D., Galena, 111.
McEwen, Mrs. D. C., 160, Stirling-place, Brooklyn, New York, N.Y.
McGee, W. J., Bureau of Amer. Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C.
McHenry, Miss J. Howard, 200, E. Biddle-st., Baltimore, Maryland.
McManama, M. G., 504, Rialto-building, St. Louis, Mo.
Meacher, William, M.D., Portage, Wisconsin.
Mendenhall, Mrs. E. R., 1,804, Green-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Millet, Josiah B., 150, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Minot, Professor Charles S., 688, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Mitchell, James, Stock Exchange, New York, N.Y.
Morgan, W. E, M.D., 34, East 29th-street, Chicago, 111.
Morse, J. J., 26, Osnaburgh-st., Regent's Park, London, N.W., England.
Munns, Dr. C. O., Oxford, Ohio.
Murlin, Rev. L. H., President Baker University, Baldwin, Kansas.
Murphy, Hon. Franklyn, 1,027, Broad-street, Newark, N.J.
Myers, W. H , M.D., 157, West Wayne-street, Fort Wayne, Ind.
*Newbold, Wm. Romaine, Ph.D., Univ. of Penna, Philadelphia, Pa.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, 781, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Norbury, Miss Mary, 206, West 71st-street, New York, N.Y.
Norbury, Mrs. J. F., 5th-avenue Hotel, Madison-sq., New York, N.Y.
Norris, Hon. C. H., Marion, Marion Co., Ohio.
Norton, Mrs. F. L., 186, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Nunn, Dr. Richard J., 119 York-street, Savannah, Georgia.
Olcott, Miss Edith, 4, East 53rd-street, New York N.Y.
Oldham, F. F., Blymyer Building, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Oliver, George S. J., Santa Barbara, Cal.
388 List of Members and Associates.
Orrick, N. C., M.D., Canton, Mississippi. " .' .'. .v. .
Osbom, General F. A., 236, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Osborne, A. E., M.D., Ph.D., Eldridge, P.O., Sonoma Co., Cal.
Park, Dr. Roswell, 510, Delaware-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Parker, William L., 339, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Parsons, A. J., 1,818, N-street, Washington, D.C.
Parsons, John E., M.D., 6, Grove-street, Ayer, Mass.
Peabody, Mrs. A. P., 47, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Peckham, Orville, First National Bank, Chicago, 111.
Pellew, Mrs. Henry E., 1,637, Massachusetts-ave., Washington, D.C
Perkins, Eranklin R., 294, Linwood-avenue, Buffalo, NY.
Perry, John G, M.D., 48, East 34th-street, New York, N.Y.
Perry, Thos. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., 541, Commonweath-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Pettit, Miss Edith, 2,205, Trinity-place, Philadelphia, Pa.
Phillips, Mrs. J. C., Junr., 299, Berkeley-street, Boston, Mass.
Philpott, A. J., c/o Boston Globe, Boston, Mass.
Platt, J. C., 333-335, Fourth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Post, C. W., Battle Creek, Michigan.
Pratt, Frederick H., 53, West-street, Worcester, Mass.
Prescott, Miss, 78, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Prince, Dr. Morton, 458, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. Charles P., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Miss Annie C., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, George, 50, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. James J., 106, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass.
Quincy, Josiah P., 82, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Quirk, Charles H., M.D., c/o Fred. H. Quirk, Casilla Correo, 825,
Buenos Ayres, South America.
Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Santa Barbara, Cal.
Rand, Mrs. J. L., 49, Kirkland-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Ransom, Frank H., 4, Buckingham-place, Cambridge, Mass.
Raymond, Mrs. Henry E., Corey-road, Brookline, Mass.
Rayson, Miss Amy, B.A., 176, West 75th-street, New York, N.Y.
Rees, Mrs. Janet E. Ruutz, Studio 864, Carnegie Hall, New York, N.Y.
Rice, Mrs. David Hall, 2, Wellington-terrace, Brookline, Mass.
Richardson, M. T., Ridgewood, New Jersey.
Robbins, Miss A. M., 29, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Roberts, Percy, c/o Hennen Building, New Orleans, La.
Rolfe, Alfred G., The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
Ropes, John C, 99, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Royce, Professor Josiah, 103, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
List of Members and Associates. 389
Ruddiman, J. C., 247, 27th-avenue, North, Minneapolis, Minn.
Rumsey, Mrs. B. C, cor. Delaware-ave. and Tracey-st., Buffalo, N.Y.
Russell, Arthur J., Minn. Journal, Minneapolis, Minn.
Salter, William M., Silver Lake, N.H.
Sargent, Mrs. Winthrop, 207, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Savage, Rev. M. J., Church of the Messiah Study, 34th-street and
Park-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Sawyer, Hon. Chas. H., Dover, New Hampshire.
Schiller, Prof. F. C. S., 72, Huestis-street, Ithaca, N.Y.
Scribner, H. D., 1,008, Central-avenue, Alameda, Cal.
Sedgwick, Mrs. H. D , 31, West lOth-street, New York, N.Y.
Shaw, Miss Emma G., 14, Rockville Park, Roxbury, Mass.
Shaw, Mrs. G. H., 23, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Shaw, Mrs. Quincy A., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Shed, Z., Room 3, Masonic Temple, Denver, Colorado.
Sheets, John C., College Hill, Station, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Sherman, Mrs. B. W., Riverside, Cook County, 111.
*Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Smith, Francis, Muskegon, Mich.
Smith, Herbert W., 320, Corn Exchange, Minneapolis, Minn.
Smith, Horace J., 6, East Penn., Germantown, Phila., Pa.
Smith, J. Heber, M.D., 279, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Msss,
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson Park, Buffalo, N.Y.
Smith, William Hawley, Peoria, 111.
Smith, W. Lincoln, Inst, of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Smith, Winfield, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Somerville, Rev. T. E., 709, West Adams-street, Chicago, 111.
Sparkhawk, Dr. Samuel, Burlington, Vermont.
Steedman, J. G. W., A.M., M.D., 2,803, Pine-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Stephens, Miss Mary, 2,713, Prairie-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Sterling, Mrs. E. C., 22, Westmoreland-place, St. Louis, Mo.
Stillman, Mrs. W. O., 287, State-street, Albany, N.Y.
Stokes, J. N. P., 30, Rue St. Dominique, Paris, France.
Stone, Charles W., 68, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Stone, Mrs. Richard, Junr., 18, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Street, Miss Ida M., 703, Euclid-avenue, Des Moines, Iowa.
Strong, Charles A., Box 208, Lakewood, N.J.
Sturgis, Chas. Russell, 63, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Stuyvesant, Mrs. J. Reade, 29, West 19th-street, New York, N.Y.
Sumner, Dr. A. M., 336, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Sutherland, J. G., 135, B-street, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Sweetser, L. H., Yale, Idaho.
Swenson, J. H., 811, 25th-avenue, N., Minneapolis, Minn.
Swift, William H., Wilmington, Delaware.
2 d
390 List of Members and Associates.
Symonds, Bkandeeth, M.D., 128, W. 59-street, New York, N.Y.
Tappan, Miss M. A., 73, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Taylor, Fredk., 121, School-street, Lowell, Mass.
Temple, Rev. H. W., 400, Locust-st., Washington, Pa.
Thaw, A. Blair, M.D., Montecito, Santa Barbara Co., Cal.
Thaw, Mrs. A. Blair, Montecito, Santa Barbara Co, Cal.
Thayer, Miss Mary A., Stoughton, Mass.
Thomas, Dr. H. J., 836, Buxton-street, Winston, N.C.
Thomson, Dr. W., 1,426, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Thorndike, S. Lothrop, 19, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Tighe, Judge J. G., 337, Fulton-street, Brooklyn, N Y.
Totten, Mrs. Enoch, 1,708, I-street,Washington, D.C.
Tracey, Dr. Paul H., 469, West 152nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Turnbull, Miss K. E., 113, East 39th-street, New York, N.Y.
Tweedy, Edmund, Newport, Rhode Island.
Twitchell, H. E., M.D., 24, S. " B."-st., Hamilton, Ohio.
Tyson, Mrs. George, 314, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass.
Van Norden, Rev. C, D.D., LL.D., 1,827, H-st., Sacramento, Cal.
Wait, Marshall, 5,144, Madison-avenue, Hyde Park, Chicago, 111.
Wake, C. Staniland, 411, East 45th-street, Chicago, 111.
Ward, Rev. Duren J. H., Ph.D., 205, Central-avenue, Dover, N.H.
Ward, Dr. J. N., Auburn, California.
Ward, W. E., Port Chester, N.Y.
Washburn, Oscar F., Reading, Mass.
Watson, Professor William, 107, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Watts, H. M., "The Press," Philadelphia, Pa.
Webb, Mrs. W. G., 34, Chestnut-street, Salem, Mass.
Webster, David L., 334, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Wheeler, Mrs. Stephen, 504, Sixth-avenue, Fort Smith, Ark.
Wheeler, William, Concord, Mass.
Whipple, L. E., 326, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Whipple, Mrs. Sherman L., Walnut-place, Brookline, Mass.
Whiteside, Miss H., c/o A. A. Carey, 29, Fairfield-st., Boston, Mass.
Whiting, Miss Lilian, The Brunswick, Back Bay, Boston, Mass.
Whitman, Mrs. Henry, 77, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
WhiTon,ReV.J.M.,Ph.D.,c/oOutlookCo.,13,Astor-place,NewYork,N.Y.
Whittaker, Thomas, 71, East 66th-street, New York, N.Y.
Wilkins, Miss M. L., cor. Carver and Museum-sts., Cambridge, Mass.
Williams, Marshall S. P., 1,372, Beacon-street, Brookline, Mass.
Wilmarth, Mrs. Mary H., The Auditorium, Chicago, 111,
Wilson, Mrs. John L., P.O. Box 19, Framingham, Mass.
Wilson, Miss Martha, 564, Dearborn-avenue, Chicago, 111.
*Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Lancing, Morgan Co., Tenn.
Wing, Isaac H., Bayfield, Wisconsin.
List of Members and Associates. 391
Wolcott, Mrs. Roger, 173, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Woodbridge, Professor F. J. E., Univ. of Minn., Minneapolis, Minn.
Woodman, Walter, M.D., Hubbard-park, Cambridge, Mass.
Wright, Miss Henrietta C., Old Bridge, New Jersey.
Wyatt, Melvin H., Sparkill, Rockland County, N.Y.
Wyllys, Miss R., 18, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass.
Wynne, Mrs. M. Y., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Zug, C., P.O. Box 1,053, Sable Iron Works, Pittsburgh, Pa.
N.B. —Members and Associates are requested to send information of
any change of address to Dr. Richard Hodgson, 5, Boylston Place,
Boston, Mass.
