{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1reese_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Reese J NDE 7584","mylang":"de"}
          	        Reese J NDE 7584  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Reese J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3889 Reese J NDE 7584  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					At the age of 15 months old, I was left unattended by my parents. I made my way out to the family pool and fell into it. It is unknown the exact length of time I was in the pool. 

What I remember most vividly is an overwhelming feeling of peace, joy, and elation. Everything just felt wholly GOOD; yet the word 'good' fails epically in describing the feeling. I was with a man in a long flowing white gown. He had yellow hair (not blonde, yellow) and he glowed. I remember feeling frightened and he was trying to soothe me. He kept telling me I was going to be ok. 

I struggled to describe it as a child. As an adult, I think my fear stemmed not from dying, but from having to come back. I believe the man was trying to convince me that I had to go back; that I couldn't stay with him. The experience was not so much particular visions, but I remember the feelings, the colors, and the brightness of everything. It's impossible to describe.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1981

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drowning. CPR given.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I FELT more. The feelings are wholly indescribable. It was like being bombarded by peace and love, tranquility. The colors and light were just more; the most beautiful moment imaginable would pale in comparison.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the man was telling me I was going to be alright. He only repeated, ‘you're going to be alright’ but he communicated so much more without using words.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt like the man was talking to me for a long time, but it was so fast. Thoughts in my head flashed in rapid succession. Almost like a debate without words: Me trying to convince him why I should stay. Him only repeating, ‘You're going to be ok.’ It could have been hours or only seconds.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Refer to above. Words fail to describe the color and light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't remember hearing anything. The man wasn't really speaking, I never heard his voice. Telepathy perhaps?

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Bright light, colorful.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I only saw bright colorful light

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, love, tranquility. Try to imagine every good feeling you've ever experienced all at once and magnified exponentially.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   Personally too young to have chosen faith. Neither parent devout, paternal grandmother and great grandmother devout Christian, nondenominational.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Do not know   Currently struggling to define my faith

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I don't know that at that young of an age anyone has beliefs. However, they did reflect those beliefs of the Christian faith my grandmothers believed.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Refer to above. The man I saw wore a white flowing gown.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I'm not sure who the man was. I only know I wanted to stay with him.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I don't know that you could call what I felt proof of existence after life. But why would I have "argued" to stay in a place that doesn't exist? I just KNEW.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Uncertain     I think that's what the man was trying to convince me about. All of life's hardships can be overcome. That I would be ok.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     Slight changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words fail to encompass the emotion or describe the beauty in the color and light.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I started talking about the man in the pool as soon as I began to talk. It scared and confused my parents and grandparents.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1reese_j_nde.html