{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1raymond_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Raymond C NDE 3857","mylang":"de"}
          	        Raymond C NDE 3857  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Raymond C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1821 Raymond C NDE 3857  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I didn't see a light or deceased loved ones but I recall looking at (although I had no eyes or a body) a bluish green almost translucent membrane. This membrane dominated an entire side of wherever I was. I could not see through this membrane but I could see shadow movement going on behind it and hear sounds and could feel the presence of many some-things behind it. I not only had very enhanced senses but my sense of taste and smell were so enhanced that I could taste and smell this membrane. Each time they stopped my heart I saw this with perfect clarity. I wasn't afraid but looking at it, I could sense great energy behind this membrane and it did not seem entirely benign. Nor did it seem evil. It was like there were a great many different personalities interacting with each other behind it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  June 13th 2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    While jogging I was bitten by something and infected by it. I was treated with antibiotics which caused the offending parasite to produce antigens during death which caused a severe heart flutter which I lived with for a week until I went to a walk in cli  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was being treated for severe heart palpitations by emergency medical technician's first in a clinic then in an ambulance and then twice by doctors in the intensive care unit at a hospital. I was given a drug in an IV that stopped my heart with the intentions of starting it back up and hopefully would resume its old beat rate. Each time my heart was only stopped for ten to twenty seconds each time but it seemed much longer when it was stopped.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure I really understand this question but I was very alert before and after each time they stopped my heart. But in this other state I was much more than what I am now. A sense of power without the ego.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No question about it. What we call time here is not accurate. It works for our world but it does not have the depth (for lack of a better word) for the other. I don't think time really exists there at least not in the way that we know it here.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I did not experience brightness but I did experience awareness and clarity on a scale that I cannot begin to explain. My senses are two-dimensional now but not during this experience. The best way to describe it would be that I could sense an added depth to things. This life seems flat compared to the other.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear but not the same way I can hear now. Very difficult to explain but there was an added depth that we do not have here.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     Something was communicated to me from this membrane. Not in words but I cannot remember it or maybe I don't want to remember it.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt no fear and no pain and I didn't really care if I did not go back. I felt awe and wonderment. I wasn't surprised because I had this feeling like this was somehow familiar to me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Not then but a few months later I'm having to relive so many past events that I had forgotten and they haven't stopped.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     We are facing very hard times ahead. So much suffering, death, ugliness, it's going to be bad. And the sad thing is we have the power to change it but the majority of people are ignorant of this and they must learn before it can get better.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I think so. I was not permitted to cross into that membrane yet. They would not let me. I knew with complete certainty that I would not die that day. It was not my time.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   never go to church. Still do not.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Not religious but spiritual.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I wish I could explain it. I don't think that it was special but it explained certain things instantly and without words. I lost interests in many things after this experience; mostly in my desire for material things. Things like a big house and a lot of money (although a little is nice) chasing women and wanting sex seems silly now.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes The only relationships that matter to me are with my daughters. I'm single and I used to spend a great deal of time and energy trying to meet the opposite sex. I no longer care about that. It seems so trivial and pathetic to waste so much time and energy on that.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is somewhat difficult to explain because of the difference in time that seems to exist between this world and whatever the other side is. What is only a few seconds here seems much longer in the other side.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I feel different and see people differently than before. I can tell when someone is not telling me the truth much better than before.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The entire experience was meaningful and I think of it often and can see it as if it had been imprinted upon my soul. I can see it whenever I think about it as if it just happened.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told a couple of coworkers and family members and although they listened I could tell that they thought I was crazy so I no longer bring it up.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   A little. You know the white light at the end of the tunnel, seeing deceased loved ones.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      Although it was vivid I did not really want to think about it but it kept coming back to me like it happened yesterday.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Although it was vivid I did not really want to think about it but it kept coming back to me like it happened yesterday.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I don't drink, smoke, take any legal or illegal drugs or medications.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thanks for allowing me to share this with you.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1raymond_c_nde.html