{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rebecca_b_fde.html","mytitle":"Rebecca B FDE 6049","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rebecca B FDE 6049  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rebecca B FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			2873 Rebecca B FDE 6049  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My father had passed away almost one year at the time of my car accident. I was making a surprise visit to my mother.  I lost control of my car in some rock matter on the side of the road at a high rate of speed.  I was headed in a head on collision situation towards a mother and her daughter after I had lost control of the car.  There was no response from the other driver, so I swerved to miss her and her daughter whom I can see very clearly until this day.  When I did swerve, I overcompensated with the steering wheel, did a 180-degree spin in the road, and hit a ditch. The car began to roll end over end six times. 

As I was rolling over and over, I thought to myself, 'Is this how it ends? Is this it; you mean the end? This is the way I go? It is all over like this? Wow, I'm okay with me then, if this is it!'  I remember feeling so at peace as things were obviously hitting me in the head which I do not remember anything touching me.  I remember opening my eyes and looking at the side airbags deploy and I closed my eyes again.  I felt an overwhelming calmness in my life that I have never felt and don't know that I would ever feel as long as I am here on this earth.  A certain stillness and comfort like no other. Then all of a sudden, the car lands on all four wheels. I opened the door a little shaken and walked away from the car with minor glass infractions in my hand and a few bumps on the back of my head after being hit by objects in the car.

A man walked up to me and handed me a business card that read 'Heavens Gait', which is a horse ranch outside of Abilene, Texas, exactly 30 miles from my destination.  After receiving the card I looked up and the man was gone across an open field.  I have tried calling the phone number and there is no answer.  This was an eye opening experience in the aspect that the next day I woke up and I had to ask myself, 'Why am I here? What is my purpose?' I told myself that it is probably not for me to know what my purpose is here on earth, just keep living it and I have done just that!  There are times that I, all of a sudden, after a crisis of sorts helped myself or others and told myself, 'This is my purpose'.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  04/16/07

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Other: Perfectly healthy just knew that a car rolling was my last breath.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Yes   I realized that the world was still there around me, in the sense I knew where I was when all the rolling was done, and that I had ever left this world as I know it.  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I became very introspectiveness at that point, and was able to have the deepest feeling of what death had to offer; as everyone wonders what it would be like to die or what their destiny is.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was at my highest level of consciousness just as the car began to roll end over end!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     No difference.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No difference.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt that I was a good person and that I had done all the right things towards others and myself.  I said to myself, 'I am happy with who I am and what I have accomplished. This is the time to say 'Good-bye'.  A very comforting feeling to have about yourself and what I had accomplished here on this place called Earth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No comment   I was Spiritually Challenged

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had always lived my life with the thougth process that I was happy with myself and all that I had done for others and the life I had lived for myself, and I was okay with departure from this earth with contentment about all that I was!

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       I am uncertain if God exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain My relationships have transitioned in different directions, but I'm not sure where some are headed after the experience.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   The event happened so quickly, but my thought processes seemed to encompass an abundance of emotion and thought processes about the time I had served here on this earth!

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I was so calm and content!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience immediately and people were amazed I walked away but even more so that I could tell them if you are close to death that there is nothing to fear, it is a peaceful experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I had heard about a white light, and your life passing before you, but this was different.  I just reviewed how I had lived my life and had traveled the path that I wanted to, and that I was happy departing with who I had become and what I had accomplished.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believe that one's life is spared only if their job is not yet done here on earth.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rebecca_b_fde.html