{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1raymond_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Raymond L NDE 3245","mylang":"de"}
          	        Raymond L NDE 3245  		  		  		  		  		        		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Raymond L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1178  Raymond L NDE  3245  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in jail, facing an extended stay. I was in a very low place emotionally, so I decided to take my life. When I did so, I was rushed to the hospital with no pulse or breathing. What I experienced, was a vast emptiness of light and soothing comfort. It was white, yet also dark? A figure approached me, dressed in what appeared to be a robe of some sort. I could see the figure, however could not see a face. The figure indicated to my lifeless body with a pointing finger, and when I turned to look - I was rushed back to my lifeless body lying on the floor. For the next four days, I could hear and feel the 'Spirit' speaking to me, I was shown the future in my dreams, and told of the path that I must take.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    2/28/2006

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Suicide attempt    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) Stopped breathing and had no pulse..


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      During the entire incident, I felt as though I had never been more alert. My mind was fast, even though physically I was unconscious.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I could see EVERYTHING. Clear, colorful....

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    The spirit was talking to me, however he said nothing. I was able to understand his telepathy? Our lips never moved.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     A spirit of some sort. They were standing before me; however, it seemed to fill the entire void. I knew the spirit somehow - I felt it to be Jesus. I was told to return to my body, as I was needed to complete my path. No words were conveyed - it was all 'felt'.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, understanding, comfort.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     My path, where I had been, done, and what I was supposed to do next.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I saw what was to come, and what actions I were to take.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I can see things coming sometimes - I feel what is supposed to be?

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have the ability to 'feel' people.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Just the knowledge and direction that I was given.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I knew that it was real. I was just back and forth on whether it was from the medication. I felt that it was Jesus and my abilities after were proof of such. My human mind however was simply unable to process the events rationally.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I feel it. I know it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      If confronted and given a message by a spirit - what was that message?

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1raymond_l_nde.html