{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rebecca_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Rebecca D NDE 91","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rebecca D NDE 91  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rebecca D NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1484 Rebecca D NDE 91  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was Halloween night; my dad took me trick or treating. It was dark going up the walkways; I had a mask that restricted my vision. I fell over a fence that was like chicken-wire fencing, they said there was a lit jack-a-lantern by it so kids could see it, guess I didn't. Anyway, I tripped over it. I was in a dark void. I was not scared.  It was as if I was a pair of eyes and ears with pure consciousness, it was so real. Just about two years ago, I realized, after thinking about this event that I was an adult, as I existed in this void, anyway back to the details. I could not see anything in the distance, just darkness. All of a sudden, I heard a child crying. I said, 'Why is that child crying?' I moved, or gravitated toward the cry.  It got louder and louder. I could see a child lying on the ground.  She was a little girl with candy all over the ground around her.  Someone was bending down to help her.  

All of a sudden, I was in this body, 'Oh, it's me,' I remember saying to myself but at the same time I was crying very loud, I was now a heavy body, and I was in pain. It turned out to be a broken arm, went through therapy and it never healed exactly correctly, it does not straighten all the way.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 31, 1962

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident  tripped on fence on cement and left my body, was knocked out   accident  Tripped over an unseen fence on hard cement and left my body  I came out of it with a broken arm but do not recall any conversation of whether or not there was any type of head injury. Both my parents are dead now so I cannot ask them, no one ever discussed any type of head injury at all, but I know I was gone, not in my body, in the void/darkness, I was pure consciousness, and it was more real than this chair I am sitting on right now.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Did not look at myself, but, I felt like a pair of eyes and ears and pure consciousness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       More than I can describe, more than being totally awake right now.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No   Never thought about that, time did not seem to be a factor.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Child crying.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     But I do now, in dream time I am always going to other dimensions and places and meeting other people, including my spirit family.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Concern for the child crying.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was too young to learn anything, but, I have always felt very keenly aware of all around me, things and peoples and animals etc.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?       Liberal   its recommended that we should all stay with the religion of which we were born into, however, I have always felt, since childhood that the mainstream religions were leaving something out, I prefer Native American Spirituality

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   I was only seven and do not recall ever talking it over with anyone or ever even telling anyone, like my parents, at the time. Afterward I was in physical therapy for a few weeks but never really thought about it being unusual until about the age of twenty or so, after I had my own children.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always been sensitive to things, have precognitive dreams and precognitive awake experiences often, my sister is the same way, my daughter as well.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Worst: pain of broken arm. Best: being super conscious.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I don't think they were influenced, haven't shared with too many, those I have though have said things like, 'Oh that's normal, everyone has those.'

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rebecca_d_nde.html