{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rebecca_e_nde.html","mytitle":"Rebecca E NDE 3293","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rebecca E NDE 3293  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rebecca E NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1138  Rebecca E NDE  3293  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I awoke in the light, experiencing all the emotions I had caused others to feel in my life here. This is very important and the feelings are very strong. I had almost lost my life once before and I felt the feelings my mother felt equally as other emotions great and small. Without realizing it you may be setting yourself up to feel terribly by not being considerate, by being impatient or being curt with people you don't even know or expect to see again. This to me is what Heaven and Hell is, and governs how I live my life. I was at perfect peace during and after this. I found myself in the presence of God, now understanding the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, how He is the Word and the Word was with Him. He communicated by injecting complete thoughts into my mind, and retrieved my answers similarly. There was no spoken word, no misunderstanding and no waste of time. I did not want to come back. He instantly knew this by my extreme joy at being home and lack of interest in anything else. He let me know I had to come back. Almost the entire time I argued that the body was too broken and painful to return to. He tried to explain logically how it was possible for me to return. At the end of two weeks He showed me my children's entire lives and let me feel how they would feel if I didn't return, and by my choice I did. I slammed back into my body so hard that it moved. A nurse seeing this began running at me with the syringe she was carrying and knocked me back out with medication. It was not the same.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    January 1972

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  liver spit in half - spleen ruptured and something to my bladder  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) had been deceased for 6 or more hours when discovered.  I was there for a very long time - ruptured spleen, liver split in half and something to my bladder. The EMTs said I was gone after 20 minutes and they didn't find me for 6 hours. I had one pint of blood left.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Life on Earth is like struggling to walk through concrete compared to the ease of being in what I now call the real life.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      The entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time and space are one, as are light and emotion.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    The vividness is related to time the way mathematics are to language. Time/distance is also solidity/transparency. Using math as language should enable this to be explained.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I don't remember sound as such. Communication was through thought injection. An entire thought was simply present at once.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     Was simply suddenly there.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     God. It was communicated to me that I was not finished and must return. Everyone living and dead was there in the spirit. Those who had returned were part of the source of the light, which is light but more so energy.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   We were part of the light and the light was God.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     yes there are levels of heaven

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Every emotion I had ever evoked from anyone else was felt as if it were happening to me. This must be the Heaven and Hell of it. I felt perfect peace, all pervading love and the sense that this was my real life (I do remember them taking my footprints when I was born and not speaking the language made me feel alienated). I do remember it felt as if I were home. I never felt that on earth.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Each emotion whether great or small was felt with the same intensity as the larger emotions. For instance, when I was 12 I almost died, and during the NDE, I felt my mother's emotions as strongly as a girl who asked me to be friends with her and I said I couldn't. The depth of the feeling was the same.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I seemed to know the next thing to happen. I often told people I had a dream more real than reality to explain, then in a couple of weeks it would happen. Very specific things: impending deaths, health issues, even foot conditions - nothing to small.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   lutheran

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes

What is your religion now?      Moderate   non-denominational christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Indeed - some of which we are not to know while we are here.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  Deeper, more forgiving. Love for the sake of loving unconditionally, without expecting anything in return.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   Communication with God was by a process I've come to call thought injection, although for years was unable to describe it to my satisfaction. Responses were similar. Everyone whose life had in any way touched mine was present then as part of the whole. The 'community' of spirits were also part of the light.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Seeing spirits, past, present, knowing how something happened watching the news - even incidental things about myself, my life or others.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I haven't heard of anyone who was certain they had spoken with God.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They always treat you differently.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It was more real than this is. At the time I was so busy with the task at hand I didn't really stop to consider it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     This is why we come back, to describe how one thing is no more or less important than another. That it's not what we call God, but that we praise him that matters. It's all part of his design. He gives us knowledge to help ourselves and each other, not for personal gain.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I wish everyone could experience this. What a wonderful world, but we must have faith. He wants us to.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Let me think about this - you've put a lot into this.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rebecca_e_nde.html