{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ray_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Ray G NDE 4469","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ray G NDE 4469  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ray G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2245 Ray G NDE 4469  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					This was a weekend trip with folks from our office. I was a financial analyst with Campbell Soup Company at the time. There was some concern by the outfitters that the Cheat River (West Virginia) was possibly running too fast to go. In the end, we went and there were three rafts with about nine people per raft. I was sitting on the back of our raft with the guide. After about an hour or so of running through various size rapids, I suddenly found myself under water, tumbling through very fast rapids. I had no air because I never saw the wave coming, which knocked all but one out of our raft. 

When I realized I was under water, with no air, I tried to figure out which way was up. When I approached the surface, my head hit the bottom of the raft above me so I had to go down again and try to come out from the raft. I finally did come up, tried to get a breath but swallowed more water as the waves were up to eight feet high going in all directions. I remember seeing the one person left in the raft trying to hold a paddle out for me but he was over ten yards away from me and I knew I couldn't get to him. I kept trying to get oriented and breathe air.  I couldn't seem to do either. I had no idea where the others were at this time. 

Then I entered a state of complete calmness. I realized I was dying and wasn't afraid of it in any way. I started reflecting about my family and that I would miss them and that this was such a silly way to die. I seemed to be just entering a peace yet I was thinking clearly and calmly as I was bouncing down the river. I almost didn't want to come back.

Then I ran into a large rope, which was thrown across the river for me to grab in hopes of saving me. I never saw it thrown. I was told I ran into it and that I grabbed onto it. I don't remember that either. I do remember once I was about ten feet from shore with folks dragging me out that I had survived. I spent the next five minutes or so hanging over the edge of the beached raft belching water out of my lungs. I actually got back into the raft and finished the rest of the ride. I wasn't real excited about getting back in but it was the only way out of the canyons where we beached. Turns out, I was the only one who was stuck under the raft and swept into deep water. The others apparently bobbed up and swam or walked to the beach along the cliffs. I am no longer afraid of dying as I now know what it's like.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1988

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Knocked out of raft in class 5 rapids on rafting trip.  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Being suddenly knocked out of our raft in very fast and cold rapids.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I had two such periods:  1. When I realized I was under water and under the boat and that I was in deep trouble.  2. When the extreme calm came over me bouncing down the river when I had no more air. Everything I was thinking about was very clear and calm. Everything seemed to be fine, in order, and making sense. I had no more concern about surviving at that point.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Things seem slow yet my mind was thinking very fast. I had no perception that I was bouncing down a river rapid.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision seemed to be almost blank, like I didn't really need it any more?

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I was envisioning family/friends very fast and as I was doing so I could see them in my mind.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete calm and peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I remember thinking about what people would say when I'm gone and what an unusual way to go after all I'd been through in life. Still during that time, I felt completely fine with it all. It was like someone saying, it's okay, all will be fine.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I don't fear death at all. I'm more emotional and sensitive today. I smell the roses more. Although I'm very successful financially, it's not as important as it was then to me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was hard to describe how calm I was and clear headed once I realized I was dying/drowning beyond return. The fact that dying was scary at first.  I was trying not to drown, but then drowning was extremely calming. Then, after being saved, my feeling was very reflective trying to figure out what had really happened.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     A few years later, I was on an acquisition trip in England for a corporation I was working for. I was traveling all over the country everyday looking at different factories and businesses. One day while traveling with other business associates in a limo near the town of Norwich I suddenly got that calming feeling again and felt like I was home and that I had been there before. I don't mean that I had just visited the area before; I mean that I felt like I had lived there before. I had never been there before in my life. Five years later, I started working on my family genealogy and to my utter surprise; I discovered that my family ten generations back were from Norwich, England. It about floored me. I still can't explain it today.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have shared it with people close to me and most find it interesting but they generally let it go.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Just what you occasionally heard on TV. I never thought much about it. In fact I was probably skeptical at the time.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was very clear to me. I just couldn't explain what actually happened or why.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is as clear today as it was that day.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm actually glad it happened as I think I see things more clearly now.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I wish you luck and I hope my story helps in some small way.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ray_g_nde.html