{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ray_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Ray V NDE 3345","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ray V NDE 3345  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ray V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1301 Ray V NDE 3345  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember walking and being outside looking at myself but not really knowing it was me and a warm light that almost seemed to caress me and I was not afraid nor did I want anything or was I in any pain. At the time, I was being life-flighted to San Antonio or was all ready in the hospital but had four broken ribs a broken neck, shoulder and arm, pelvis and sacrum, head trauma and internal injuries. I was not in pain. In fact, I felt the best I ever had with a presence of peace I've never known before. Two weeks after coming home from the hospital, I passed out from a blood vessel bursting in my frontal lobe. In the brief time I was unconscious I had the same feeling. Later, doctors were unsure about the vessel rupture; maybe I had just fainted. I spent fifteen days in a coma, twenty-one days in the intensive care unit and fifty-four days in the hospital. I will spend the next year trying to recuperate.

I saw my paternal grandfather in heaven. He was on horseback and saddled another horse. It was a solid white horse, a beautiful beast. Though my grandfather didn't speak, I knew it was for me. I felt a presence of others, though I don't know who. They were all familiar and happy to see me. I was very pleased to be there. It was like being at a party for me and we were all gathering to go somewhere. I don't remember going there. But I remember waking up in the hospital with my family around me and wanting to go back. If I could just go back, I wouldn't hurt. I went back to sleep and dreamed I was at the lake fishing; Lake Texhoma a place my family goes every year I had been at the lake the weekend before. I tried to dream of the lake every time I slept in the hospital.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  6-1-07

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident Direct head injury  car crash sustained 12 fractures punctured liver and diaphragm head trauma had to be ventilated in flight to hospital.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   The accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   Not sure.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Not sure.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No sense of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see without looking it was like just being it.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't have to hear, I just knew.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My grandfather, we were in heaven and I could go or stay the choice was mine.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It seemed to almost touch you and hold you, a calming presence.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     another dimension.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace and serenity, complete fulfillment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Read the Bible more.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Read the Bible more.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I've tried to let everyone around me know how much I love them and how precious everyday of our lives are.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The total feeling of peace and serenity is the best way I can describe it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Knowing true peace.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My grandfather and the peace.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My wife and therapist in the hospital, I'm not sure whether they were influenced but my wife has started to attend church with me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was aware that people had experienced life after death.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     In the hospital it made me feel better to recall it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe my soul left my body and was going home but returned to my body to finish the life I have on earth.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ray_v_nde.html