{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ray_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Ray K NDE 2045\/776","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ray K NDE 2045/776  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ray K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						294  Ray K NDE  2045/776  					  				  			      			  			  				

Experience Description 2045:

  					    					  

  					  Oh no…Every time I try to describe this, it gets really frustrating. But oh well…  					

First Time (10 years old):

I went to Catholic School at the time and was horsing around with a friend after school on the playground. He was showing me a new Judo move that he had learned in his martial arts class - he was going to flip me over his shoulder onto the ground. Something went wrong and I landed directly on my head.

I picked myself up from the ground with the most intense pain in my head and spine that I had ever experienced. I was literally knocked senseless.  As I got up I remember seeing a woman (who was there to pick up her kids) getting out of her car with a horrified look on her face…she had seen the accident. I turned to run into the bathroom - I am still not sure why, but only made it a few feet before I feel flat on my face on the concrete…blacked out completely.

I thought that I had a dream when I was unconscious. What else would a ten year old compare the experience to. I did not realize what had really happened until many years later when not only did it happen again, but also I started to hear of other NDEs. 

It felt as if my body had just come apart and my vision went spiraling out of control. Swirling colors that seemed to disappear to a point somewhere…like a funnel or something. No, not a tunnel…a funnel. I was really scared because I felt like I was losing control of everything.  

Somehow, I knew that I had to just let go of my fear and roll with the funnel of swirling light. My body was gone…it felt like a blender had just ripped it apart, and I was drawn into the funnel toward the disappearing point. I just let go of everything. As soon as I let go of the fear, the pleasant sensations began.

I still had a 'body' but it was entirely different. I could see in three dimensions as if I had no body at all, but was just a 'floating eyeball' for lack of a better explanation. I could see all directions at once, yet there were no directions or dimensions as we think of them. (Note: This is one thing that really bothers me when I read or hear of other NDE's that describe a 'place' - sometimes with rivers and valleys and flowers - this was not a 'place' anything like here. How could my experience be so different from others?)

I was greeted by a being of Light and Love, but nobody else that I could recognize. It seemed to be just a brilliant glow that seemed to absorb me inside itself. Love is far too weak a word to describe this experience. I became Love - my entire being, every strand of my spirit spreading throughout the Universe had become Love times a million billion.

This is the point where I have to contradict myself. I said earlier that over there was not a 'place' similar to we experience here.  

I found myself in front of some giant golden gates or some kind…it reminded me of an alter in the Catholic Church. There was some kind of fog or something that obscured any sense of distance, but my pet dog Skippy was there. Skippy had died some years earlier and was the only 'person' that I had any real family connection with that was dead. I was overwhelmed with Joy and Love and embraced my dog with my spirit.  Although I don't remember Skippy saying anything to me, we were so happy to be together again!

At this point, I was told that I must go back…that it was not my time. This is somewhat fuzzy here, but I remember an intense feeling of regret and being filled with a 'No, No, please let me stay' feeling.  But wherever the 'voice' was coming from was adamant…it was not my time and I must return. I had no choice in the matter.  

If it is possible to describe the 'funnel' experience in reverse, this is what it felt like coming back here. It felt like my spirit was being stuffed into a jar that was far too small and painful to hold it. I was fighting to return…'No, No, I don't want to go back'. The process would not stop - I was returning.

I heard voices, real voices. I opened my eyes briefly and saw a circle of people gathered over and around my body (my face in particular). It was the paramedics from the ambulance and they were rubbing ice all over my face. One of them said 'He opened his eyes' (with great joy on his part). I closed my eyes fiercely and tried to go back, go back, go back - but they kept yelling and telling me to open my eyes while lightly slapping my face.  I was in deep physical pain and felt completely saturated with exhaustion. 

The Second NDE:

I was much older (16) and had the beginnings of an adult ego and character, so this NDE was much more personal than the first. I will skip details of the death part of this NDE…it is far too embarrassing to admit anything else other than I must have had an accidental overdose.

I remember lying down against the wall at a party and closing my eyes.  That was the last conscious memory I have. I woke up several hours later and the party was over…everyone was asleep all over but not me!

When I left my body, it was similar to the first time, but much scarier. I thought that I was going crazy…that I must be losing my mind. I stared up into the same 'funnel' that I saw many years before. It had a much more intense fragmented feeling and certain 'wrongness' as my ego disintegrated into Spirit. I was frightened and did not have any idea what was happening, just that I was totally out of control of what was going on.  

Again, I finally realized that I really did not have any control so I might as well just hang on for the ride, no matter how frightening. The spiraling funnel was swirling upward to the same disappearing point somewhere in the distance…as it sucked my Spirit out of this world and my body.

Then, the intense Love, Peace, and pleasure began to overcome me once more. I was no longer Ray, my ego had dissolved but somehow I was still Ray. A Being of immense Light and Love and Holiness, but this time the Being was taking me on a trip or tour of some sort once again escorted me. It had something to show me.

Now this is very difficult to describe, but time ceased to exist. It had no value there…past and future were completely non-existent. I was traveling in an intense, burning now.  Now was everything. I ceased to be a noun (person, place or thing) but became a verb (an action). I was Ray-ing instead of Ray. This is the best I can do to describe what no-time is like. It is Beautiful in its own intensity and burning Now-Ness.

I was given a huge message at this point. The Being told me 'This is Who You Really Are', as It opened the Universe up to me. I could not tell the difference between the infinite galaxies and myself. I became all-powerful and all knowing - and yet I was still Ray. I cannot describe this better than this, but this 'story' feels so inadequate next to the real thing.

Then the Being guided me and introduced me to the most Incredible Beauty and Love that anyone could comprehend. It was a Greater Being of the most intense Light that could not possibly exist. It was God. The first Being guided me to this Light and let it enfold and swallow me up. I became one with Love times a million, billion, trillion forever and ever. We were made of the same stuff!  Every Being that had ever existed in all of Creation was now part of this Greater Whole being called God. I was one with all of them, and yet I was still Ray…all powerful, little old me!  

'This is Who You Really Are' thundered the Light.

Notice the difference between 'Who' you really are and 'What' you really are. It was very important that I know 'Who' I Really Am.

After some indefinite length of Now-ness, I was told that I must go back…that it is not my time yet. I was okay with this now…I had a huge Purpose and far more powerful reason for being. I was given another message that was very important…as important as who I Really Am. I was told that I might return anytime I wished. I have no idea what this means now but that was the other Big Message!

I returned to my body again feeling stuffed into a vessel of pain and exhaustion. I do not care to comment upon further details of how I came back to this reality.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 not sure  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident       drug overdose  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     In my first NDE I was standing at the base of some large golden ornate gates or doors.  The ground was covered in fog and my dog was there waiting for me.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   none  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No                                                        

  

Experience Description 776                 

 Background Information:    

Gender:    Male  

Date NDE Occurred:    two NDEs:  1966 and 1973  

NDE Elements:    

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  accidental drug overdose  Clinical death I am not sure exactly what happened when I was 16.  I think I may have stopped breathing but I am not sure because I was alone.The first time I had a head injury and had stopped breathing/heartbeat.    The second time was a drug overdose.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

The experience included:      Out of body experience  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See prior description.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      High Consciousness and Intensity Loving alertness.  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   No time. Just Now.  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     No...It was more of a funnel that disappeared into a point far away. I "disintegrated" with the funnel.  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Every Being ever Created is probably a good description. But how does one comprehend that?  

The experience included:      Light  

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See above description.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See above description.  

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone  

The experience included:      Special Knowledge  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Very much so. Confusing now but very clear at the time.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I had no choice, but was told that it was not my time and I had to go back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:    

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     It became very difficult to be a Christian after that. What I heard described in Church was not at all what I had learned. Although, since then I have been able to read the Bible and see what Jesus really was saying. He was trying to tell us about the Other Side, but we goof it up trying to understand it.    

After the NDE:    

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The "place" I went to was not the physical/relational place we know in our everyday experience. There was no time there either. The communications that I had with God were without words.  How do you express this kind of experience with words?  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Being pure Love was the best.  Returning here was the worst.    

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    People listen in a dull, disconnected way. My wife does not believe my NDE's were real...or perhaps not significant would be a better description. It is impossible to describe anyway, but I have an intense need to try  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I sometimes want to die. I have no fear of death whatsoever. I sometimes get suicidal because I know what is beyond and want that peace so very much. I also know that I cannot commit such an act...that it is wrong.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      You could ask about fear of death or wanting to go back there. This is very important. May I get a copy of my questionnaire somehow?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ray_k_nde.html