{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ray_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Ray S NDE 4282","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ray S NDE 4282  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ray S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2109 Ray S NDE 4282  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been in an old 1957 Chevy on a cold day - I was playing with toys on the back seat. While sitting on the floor of the car close to the floor the carbon monoxide poison was coming in through the cracks in the floorboards. In the 1960s, it was common to leave a child in a car. As I said it was cold, my brother and sister went into a store to get ink for our dad - I stayed in the car playing while the car was left running. Thirty minutes or so later, my brother and sister returned for another fifteen or so minute drive home. I remember feeling real sleepy. When we pulled into the driveway my brother and sister just ran in the house as I tried to get my toys together and having a hard time thinking - I remember that I decided to just bring my Monopoly Game (because I liked the red houses).

As I walked up the walkway I felt my energy drain from my body so I yelled out for my mother. Last thing I remember was seeing one of those little red houses falling to the ground from inside my body - then it all changed in reverse - I watched the little house fall from outside of my body and watched as my mother came to the porch and yelled for father my brother and sister crying. As for me? Just calm it was just after Christmas and I got the sheep skin coat that I bugged my parents for - I only bring this up because my brother bought me a purple slush while he was in the store earlier and I could see my dad trying to revive me and the slush staining my coat! So here I am dead and I am upset over a coat! Don't know how long this was all taking; I just know I was slowly rising higher floating in the tree looking down. Next thing I remember was waking up in the Union Hospital in Freetown, Massachusetts, with everyone around me asking if I was going to be okay now.

I looked at my mother and said, 'Mom is my coat ruined now, will the purple come out?' It was at that point the room went 'dead' silent - you could have heard a pin drop because unknown to me my clothes had been remove at the scene and no one knew where they were? So how did I know, but only for the fact I was there viewing the actions from above. The first to speak was the doctor he asked me how and at what point did I know that I soiled my coat? I told him while I was floating in the tree looking down at my body and my dad. The doctor said it was very important that I speak to a special nurse who asked me all kinds of questions. When I asked her why so many questions she said it isn't everyday a boy dies and can come back to talk about it. She said it was because I had died and they wanted to know what it looked and felt like so they could keep a record of it.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  December  1965

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    carbon monoxide poisoning  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I could see my dad trying to revive me and the slush staining my coat!

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was floating in a tree looking down at my family; I did have the sense that I was leaving them, can't say I was sad just that I loved them so much.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything even the ambulance in distance and my dad and brother arguing to drive me there (Hospital) that there wasn't time they were losing me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It was brighter as I rose slowly.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see my Dad trying to revive me and the slush staining my coat!  I remember telling my brother that it wasnt his falt because thats what he kept saying as I watched him from the tree Id say I was flooting 25 feet up

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm kind of like it's going to be okay no matter what - not worried almost a mindset that they, whoever that was, will figure it out and let me know.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel closer to people, sometimes too close, like I can feel their pains.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     It seems that my story was a comfort for all my family soon to die. I would remind them how I could see them so know that I will feel there time and has been the case with all that have passed - my grandmother, dad, uncle, brother, and mom, even my dog. I have been with them when they died I just talked with them and told them I love them, reminded them of the story and that everything was okay for them to go. No sooner did I say go, they left at the moment.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I saw the slush staining my new coat! I was only a kid!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I feel it has helped many to feel that someone they know and trust, a child, no hype, nothing to gain, had this experience.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     You don't float in tree everyday so yes REAL.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know that there is more to life than life and we do go somewhere when our body dies but I believe our souls go on - sometime I feel like we are butterfly's and we just start again somewhere else.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would be more interested in children's stories, the clear straight talk of kids.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ray_s_nde.html