{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 9011","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n40_may_1887.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N40 May 1887","mylang":"de"}
.:No. XL.-VOL. III. MAY,l887•
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
New Members and Associates ..
~eeting of Councll
CONTENTS.
-General Meeting .. . • .• •• •.
Cales Received by the Literary Committee
-COrrespondence.. .• : .. ..
Supplementary Library Catalogue .•
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
MEMBERS.
'BARKWORTH, THOMAS, J.P., West Hatch, Chigwell, Essex.
PAGB
.. ~~
.. 97
.. 98
.. 100
.. 109
.. 112
COOPER, EDWARD V., M.A., West End Cottage, Great Haseley,
Tetsworth, Oxon.
GRAHAM, WILLIAM W., 4, Elm Court, Temple, London, E.C.
PREBLE, W. P., JUN., 237, Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
ASSOCIATES.
'BEVAN, REV. C. B., M.A., Kirton Vicarage, Boston.
DILL, J. F. GORDON, M.A., M.B., 6, Brunswick-place, Hove, Brighton.
GAYNOR, HENRY F., Lieut. R.E., 50, Westmorland-road, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
KAY, WALMSLEY P., Bank-terrace, Darwen.
KINCAID, MRS. S. M., 43, St. Stephen's Green, Dublin.
PLUMMER, JOSEPH WILLIAM, Cockermouth.
WILSON, HERBERT W., Elm House, Todmorden.
MEETING OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 23rd of April, the President
in the chair, the following Members were present :-Professor W. F.
Barrett, and Messrs. Walter H. Coffin, Edmund Gurney, F. W. H.
Myers, Frank Podmore, H. Arthur Smith, and J. Herbert Stack.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed as
correct.
Four new Members and seven new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected.
It was agreed that the names of thirteen Members and Associates
whose subscriptions had remained for some time unpaid, and whose
present addresses could not be ascertained, should be struck off the
List.
Digitized by Google
.98 JO'IJR"Ml of Society fOT P8ychical Research. [May. 1887.
Thanks were accorded to the donors for some presents to the
Library, the particulars of which appear in the Supplementary
Catalogue.
The cash account for the month of March was presented in the
'Usual form, and the needful accounts passed for payment.
Mr. J. Herbert Stack was elected a Member of the House 1Uld
Finance Committee.
The next Meeting of the Council was fixed for Friday, the 3rd of
June, at 4.30 p.m.
GENERAL MEETING.
A General Meeting of the Society was held on the evening of
Saturday, April 23rd, at the Rooms of the Society of British Artists.
The PresideJlt, Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., took the chair, and
delivered an address; which was followed by a paper of Mr. E.
Gurney's, on "Peculiarities of Certain Post-hypnotic States." As these
will both be published in the Proceedings in the course of the month, it
is unnecessary to epitomise them. At the close of Mr. Gurney's paper,
Mr. F. W. H. Myers made a few remarks, of which the following is the
substance :-
I have lately seen at Blois a case which illustrates Mr. Gurney's
interesting experiments on the condition of a subject who obeys, some
time after awaking, a command given to him in the hypnotic trance.
M. de Rochas, Commandant of Engineers at Blois, who has written an
interesting book on hypnotism, &c., has a remarkably sensitive subject,
called Benoit. Benoit has now arrived at perhaps as high a degree of
suggestibility as has ever been reached by a healthy subject. Waking
or entranced, he can be made to believe almost anything; and the
hallucinatory idea sometimes tends to persist inconveniently, as in the
following example. M. de Rochas told him C'Three and two make
four," and set him some sums, which showed that he was unable to add
three and two as making any other sum than 4, though at the same time
.he remembered that three and one make 4. M. de Rochas dispelled the
illusion, but, as it proved, imperfectly. Benoit, going next day to
the Prefecture, where he is a junior clerk, continued to add three and
two as making four, and, when his sums were sent back to him, could
not discover his mistake. This go~ him into so much trouble that he
went to M. de Rochas and asked whether anything had been done to
make him stupid. M. de Rochas set him right at once; but this and
,some jokes played on him by fellow.clerks, &c., made it urgently
desirable that the poor lad should have some means of knowing whether,
so to say, all was above·board in his mental life, or whether he was the
Digitized by Google
May, 1887.J Jou1"1Uil of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 99
dupe of some impressed idea. It was found on observation that when
he was acting out a suggestion of any kind (action or hallucination) he
became insensible to pain. It was therefore strongly impreBBed on him
that when perplexed by anything he was to pinch or rub himself, and
that if he felt nothing, then the puzzling sight or idea was all nonsense,
and would at once disappear.
He now habitually acts on this rule,--BOmetimes with an effect rather
ludicrous in a bystander's eyes. For instance, M. de Rochas suggested
to Benoit in my presence (April 7th), that his son, Henri de Rochas, a
young officer, had come home and was entering the room. Benoit was
full of interest and admiration, placed a chair for the imaginary visitor,
and stood before him making respectful remarks. Suddenly I gave
the airy Henri a box on the ear, accompanied with an injurious epithet.
Benoit stared in amazement at my insolence, and looked eagerly to see
the insulted militaire spring up and return the sO'UJIlet. But the
phantasmal Henri sat where he was; and nothing could be more
laughable than Benoit's face of consternation. Suddenly a thought
struck him ;-he rubbed his forehead violently ;-' Il n'y a personne' !
he exclaimed; 'II n'y a personne ' !
I tried to find out at what moment in such cases the anresthesia
supervened. Benoit naturally could not reply with precision; but he
was sure that it did not always persist through the time which inter-
vened between the suggestion and the fulfilment,-which were some-
times many days apart. He thought that the insensibility came on
about the time that the hallucinatory idea or impulse began to rise in
his mind. A connection has often been noticed between abnormal
states of mind and loss of cutaneous sensibility. It is interesting to
86e this characteristic of the hypnotic state reproduced in correlation
with the recrudescent hallucination, while nothing else in the subject's
sensations reveals to him tttat he is no longer master of himself.
I will add a few words as to an experiment which M. Richet kindly
permitted me to witness in his laboratory on April 9, and which affords
a simple and absolute test of the reality of the hypnotic state. Experi-
ments, as you are a.ware, have been made at different times to test the
difference between the products of expiration during sleep and waking.
And now M. Richet has invented a very ingenious and exact apparatus for
registering (1) the amount of lung-ventilation (air inspired) during any
given space of time, (2) the amount of carbonic acid expired, (3) the
amount of unchanged oxygen expired. It was found by experiment that
no one could voluntarily diminish the quantity of air inspired for more
than 10 or 15 minutes, after which time a reaction ensued and the
ventilation rose above the average. M. Richet has tried many experi-
ments with subjects sleeping, fasting, after the ingestion of particular
Digitized by Google
100 Journal of SoCiety f(Yf' Psychical Research. [Hay, 1887.
foods, &c., the record of which will be a valuable addition to medical
knowledge. Here I must only give a brief notice of the experiment as
tried for the first time on a hypnotised subject. Dr. Babinski brought
one of his hysterical patients from the Salp@triere, and her ordinary
respiration and its products were first registered.. Then Dr. Babinski
hypnotised her, by one mere careless gest.ure. Here, if ever, the un-
instructed observer might assuredly have suspected mere simulation on
the part of the woman, who becam~ motionless and apparently
insensible after so very trifling a process. Well, she was kept for an
hour in the trance,-a time far more than sufficient to neutralise any
attempt at fraudulent retention of breath,-and the products of her
expiration for that hour were measured. It was found that, as com-
pared with the normal state, the ventilation of the lungs had
diminished in about the proportion of seven to two, and the generation
of carbonic acid in about the proportion of nine to five. The reality of
the somatic change was thus amply established. It would not be
fitting to enter into detail until the appearance of M. Richet's own
account, for which these few words are merely intended to engage your
expectant interest. But you will see that we have here a test of the
simplest and most conclusive kind as to the genuineness or otherwise of
this mysterious hypnotic trance,-an appeal from human nerves and
human judgment to the balance itself,-the automatic witness whose
testimony forms the basis of so many of our most assured beliefs.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
M.-376.
From Dr. Biggs, of Lima. We owe the record to the kindness of Mr.
R. Roxburgh, of I, Victoria-buildings, Weston-super-Mare, to whose brother
the aeco~nt was addressed. •
October 18th, 1885.
DEAR MR. ROXBURGH,-ln reply to your favour of 1st uIt., asking me to
give you a statement in regard to the cross which you saw on Maria's arm,
and which 1 caused to appear ther~ by acting on her mind while in magnetic
sleep, it was done in this way :-1 put her into a magnetic or mesmeric
sleep by laying my hand on her head for about a miuute. I then said: "Maria,
do you hear me 1" Answer:" Yes." "Are you thoroughly magnetised 1"
Answer: "Yes." "Now listen attentively; a cross is going to appear on your
right arm, and remain there until 1 tell it to go away. Here is where it is to
appear." (1 then described a cross with my forefillger on the inner side of her
right forearm.) "Have you understood what 1 have said to you 1" Answer:
"Yes." 1 then awakened her by two or three up-passes; for the next two
or three days she seemed sulky and out of sorts, would now and then rub
her right arm, over the part where the cross was to appear; when asked
why she did this, said there was an itching aod she could not help scratching
Digitized by Google
May,l887.] Jou/maZ oj Society jO'J! ~~ehical Research. 101
the place, although there was nothing to I-}eAe~n that could c&use the
irritation. I then magnetised her as before, 'aM atIlted: "Do you recollect
what I told you the other day about the cross t~tds t.Oappear on your arm1"
Answer: "Yes." " Will it appear 1" Answer: " Yes."·~', W)a!ln 1" Answer: "In
a few days." "Well it must come out in three days; dq'Y9U unde~t&nd 1".
Answer: "Yes." By the time appointed a dusky-red croiW";fVur or five inches
long and about three inches wide, made its appearance. At first we pretended
not to notice this, although we could often see the lower part ~f it,.when her
sleeve was partly rolled up in some of her duties in and about.~~bouse;
she was our housemaid. It was only at intervals, when throWJl'1n:td the
magnetic sleep, that we could get a full view of the cross; never a woi"d had
been said to her about the cross in her waking moments, for some ttllier'
several weeks, until one day I pretended to have caught sight of the strange'
mark on her arm, and said: "Why, Maria, what is the matter with your
arm 1 have you hurt it 1 What mark is this 1 Let me see; pull up your
sleeve." She did so with a slightly sulky, ashamed air. "Why it looks like a
cross; where did you get this 1" " I don't know, sir !" "How long has this been
on your arm 1" "More than a month, sir." "Have you felt anything 1" "No,
sir; only at one time I had a great deal of itching and burning, and a few
days afterwards this mark came out on my arm." After this we frequently
spoke to Maria about the cr08ll, and when requested to she would roll up her
sleeve and show it to visitors, although she always seemed reluctant to do
so. Many months afterwards she left our service, and in about two weeks
she made her appearance at my office in town, asking me to remove the cross
from her arm as it attracted the notice of the family with whom she was
now living, and she was much annoyed at the many questions asked her. I
magnetised her, and then told her that the cross would disappear in a few
days, and she would be no more troubled with it. I saw her a few days
afterwards at Saito; the cross had disappeared.
Another case, which I recollect having told you of: this was the first of
this kind of experiment that I tried ; it was in Santa Barbara, California. I
was staying there in 1879 with a friend, Mr. G., a long-resident chemist in
that town. His wife had a kind of half lIervant and half companion, a girl of
about 18, who complained to me one day of a pain through herchest. With-
out her knowing what I intended to do, I tried magnetism; she fell into a
deep magnetic sleep in a few minutes. With this subject I tried many inter-
esting experiments which I will pass over. One day I magnetised her as usual
and told her in a whisper (I had found her to be more susceptible this way
than when I spoke aloud in my usual voice): "You will have a red cross
appear on the upper part of your chest, only 011 every Friday, in the course
of some time, the words Sancta above the cross, and Crucis underneath it will
appearalso; at same time a little blood will come from the cross." In my vest
pocket I had a cross of rock crystal. I opened the top button of her dress,
and placed this cross on the upper part of the manubrium, a point she could
not see unless by aid of a looking-glass, saying to her: "This is the spot where
the cross will appear." This was on a Tuesday. I asked Mrs. G. to watch the
girl and tell me if anything seemed to ail her. Next day Mrs. G. told me
she had seen the girillow and again put her left wrist over the top part of
Digitized by Google
102 Journal of Society"jflr Psychical Re8earch. [May, 1887.
",
her chest, over the dress;. thi8~as frequently repeated, as if she felt some
tickling, or slight irritawn"a.m>ut the part, but not otherwise noticed; she
seemed to carry her bB.n<i'up now and then unconsciously. When Friday
came, I said, after,.~kfast, "Come, let me magnetise you a little; you
have not had."!o" tlbse for several days." She was always willing
to be magnet~ea,' as she always expressed herself as feeling very
much res~ ana' comfortable afterwards. In a few minutes she
was in a.~p·}!leep. I unbuttoned the top part of her dress, and there, to my
oomplefeAllQ'utter astonishment, was a pink cross, exactly over the place
whe~:t.ha.a put the one of crystal. It appeared every Friday, and was in-
v~iple·.on all other days. This was seen by Mr. and Mrs. G., and myoid
_(riena-and colleague Dr. B., who had become much interested in my experi-
'.•nit.Iits in magnetism, and often suggested the class of experiments he wished
'. -:.to see tried. About six weeks after the cross first appeared I had occasion to
take a trip to the Sandwich Islands. Before going, I magnetised the girl,
told her that the cross would keep on showing itself every Friday for about
four months. I intended my trip to the Islands would last about three
months. I did this to save the girl from the in1l.iction of this mark 80
strangely appearing perhaps for a lifetime, in case anything might happen to
me and prevent me from seeing her again. I also asked Dr. B. and Mr. G. to
write me by every mail to Honolulu, and tell me if the cross kept on appear-
ing every Friday, and to be very careful to note any change should any take
place, such as the surging of blood or any appearance of the words "Sancta
Crucis." I was rather curious to know if distance between us, the girl and
myself, over 2,000 miles, made any difference in the apparition of the croBS.
While I was at the Sandwich Islands I received two letters from Mr. G. and
()ne from Dr. B., by three different mails, each telling me that the cross kept
()n making its appearance as usual; blood had been noticed once, and also
part of the letter R above the cross, nothing more. I returned in a little
less than three months. The cross still made its appearance every Friday,
and did 80 for about a month more, but getting paler and paler until it
became invisible, as nearly as possible four months from the time I left for
the Sandwich Islands. The above-mentioned young woman was a native
Californian, of Spanish parentage, about 18 years of age, of tolerably good
health, parents and grandparents alive. She was of fair natural intelligence,
but utterly ignorant and uneducated.
The third case was thus: A lady asked me to try the power of
magnetism in reducing the size of a large goitre which troubled her. Her
neck was 42 centimetres in circumference. Within a few days it began to
decrease; it gradually came down to 37i centimetres, and it gave her no
further annoyance. This lady felt the magnetic power in a very limited and
,singular way; her eyelids would close in a few minutes, and she could not
()pen them \wtil demagnetissd, but she retained the use of all her faculties
perfectly, 80 that while I was magnetising her, and occasionally manipulating
the goitre, we usually kept up quite a lively conversation on different
subjects, she being a highly educated and clever woman. She speaks several
languages with great fluency. One day I conceived the idea of making a
eross appear on the goitre, on which I was manipulating. I took the little
Digitized by Google
lIay,l887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 103
(lrystal cross out of my vest pocket, and gently placed it on the goitre for a
few seconds, desiring as stronlCly as I could that a corresponding mark should
appear there as soon as possible. I am sure she did not perceive my doing
this, or she would most certainly have made some inquiries. She was
oonvt'rsing all the time on some indi1ferent subject. I usually went to see her
~very day at a certain hour; the magnetising and manipulation usually
-occupied about 20 minutes. Every day I anxiously looked for an appearance
()f the cross for a week or so, and then made up my mind that the experiment
had failed, until one day, about six weeks afterwards, she received me in
;rather an excited manner, and taking hold of both my hands, she said, "Did
you ever wish that any mark should appear on any part of my body 1 and
what was it 1" I said, much astonished myself, "Yes, nearly two months
ago I wished that a cross should appear on the goitre." She immediately
removed her collar, and said, "There it is." Sure enough there was a pink
(lrOSS. She then told me that the evening before her dressmaker had come
in to try a new dreBB on, and exclaimed, "What a curious mark is on your
neck! " She immediately went to the looking-glass and saw it, and
afterwards showed it to her husband. ~is mark only lasted two or three
-days, gradually fading away.
In the case of the Californian girl, it might be asked why I conceived the
idea of making a crOBB appear only every Friday. It was because I once saw
in San Francisco, in 1873, a girl who every Friday became cataleptic, in a
position as if she were nailed to the cross.· She had marks of the nails on
hands and feet, blood oozing from them. The medical man in attendance
said there was the wound in her side also bleeding. This girl was a protegee
()f the Catholic Archbishop Alemario of San Francisco. Sbe was very fervent
at her prayers, and strict in all her church observances.
The San Francisco papers of the beginning of 1873 had a great deal to say
.about her. These cases have not been infrequent. I then supposed it to be
a case of auto·magnetisation, and my experiments since have proved it to
have bCt'n so, to my own satisfaction at least. I once sent word to the
Archbishop that I thought I could explain to him the how and the wherefore
()f these wonderful occurrences; all could be accounted for through the power
of animal magnetism. His answer (by a mutual friend) was "that magnetism
was of the devil, and he would have nothing to do with the subject." So the
poor girl was first called a saint full of miracles, and afterwards condemned
as an impostor and expelled, if not from the Church, at least from the kind
protection of the Archbishop. M. H. BIGGS, M.D.
As to the first two of these cases, it is possible to suppose that the hypnotic
.suggestion took effect indirectly, by causing the girls to rub a patch of the right
.shape. The suggestion may have been received as a command; and there
would be nothing very surprising in a "subject's" automatically adopting the
right means to fulfil a previous hypnotic command. And even the third case
might be so accounted for, if the rubbing took place in sleep. At the same time
it would be rash, I think, absolutely to reject the hypothesis of the more
·direct effect. We are gradually learning how impoBBible it is to aSBign a limit
to the poSBible effects of hypnotic suggestion. Recent experiments in France
-snch as the vesication by suggestion produced by M. Focachon, of Charmes,
Digitized by Google
104 JO'U'T"nal of Society ffYf' P8ychical Research. [May, 1887_
and vouched for by Prof. Beaunis; the "burns" similarly produced at the-
Salpatriere; and the heightening of temperature by suggestion described by
Dr. pumontpallier-might well have prepared us for yet further develop-
ments; though there is, no doubt, a considerable gap between those ex-
perimeuts and Dr. Biggs' cruciform effects, which, if directly due to suggestion~
seem even to present a difference in kind from any cases before recorded.
If we begin at the beginning, the most familiar proof of the dependence-
of the blood-supply of a part, regulated by the vaso-motor nerveil, on cerebral
states involving consciousness, is to be found in the phenomenon of blush-
ing. Passing to similar peripheral affl'ctions deliberately induced, we find
that a part which ordinarily does not blush, such as a finger, will begin to tingle
and even occasionally to show a certain redness, when the attention is for
BOme time strongly directed to it. Here the actual process becomes doubtful..
In the more general case of blushing, it seems enough to say that the cerebral
change involved in certain massive emotions happens, as a matter of fact, to-
extend to certain vaso-motor centres connected with the face, or organ of
expression. But it is a very different thing to suppose that the cerebration,
connected with the quite unemotional idea ofspecial localities on the body can
transmita directand special influence to their vaBO-motor nerves. Forof course·
the fact that emotion produces certain localised effects does not raise the very
slightest presumption that mere thinking about particular parts of the body
will produce similar effects therein: a sudden surprise may produce irregular'
action of the heart, but we may picture that organ all day without its ceasing
to beat quietly. And the influence of an unemotional idea on a mechanism
wholly beyond voluntary control, which would be strange enough if it only'
affected large organs or ill-dE'fined areas," becomes still stranger if it can
extend to so minute a part as a finger-thus showing itself comparable in
delicacy of operation to the motor discharges which are under the conscious.
control of the will, and which have kept their finely ramifying paths in
continual use ever since feet and handa existed. An alternative hypothesis.
would be that the attention bestowed on the finger, involving an
expectation of change in its sensatioDs, first produced the sense of heat and
discomfort as a hallucirw.tioo, without actual pbysical change in the finger
(just as a visual hallucination is produced centrally, and without physical
change in the retina), and that then the cerebral correlate of this discomfort
brought on, as a secondary effect, the vaso-motor condition which is normally
associated with discomfort in that locality.
But difficulties increase as we go on. However the finger was affected
by the idea of it, the idea of it was at any rate a distinct thing-an image.
which could be clearly detached in the mind. This cannot be said of all the
parts of the body which have been affected by suggestion; for instance, a
small area on the arm or neck is not, like a finger, clearly detachable in
thought. I am not aware that redness has ever been produced in such an
a. rea by intenlal causes, except under the influence of hypnotic suggestion; I
*1n Le Magntti/Jf1le Animal, by MM. Binet and Fere, p. 147, it is stated
all proved by experiment that if a hysterical patient, in a nonnal state, fixes
her attention on some part of her body, the volume of that part (depending of
course on blood.supply) is altered.
Digitized by Google
May,1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea'rch. 105
have myself seen a red patch 80 produced in a very few Dlinutes on a "subject l>
of Dr. Li6beault. And another and still longer step has to be made when we
come to actual inflammation and vesication, which involve a metabolism of
til!8ue over and above mere local erethism, and not to be accounted'for merely
by the dilatation of the small arteries. What can wesuppose to bethecomplete
physiological history of such a ti88ue-change, produced under the influence
of an idea, and presumably therefore by efferent nervous impulses 1 This
is a question which probably no physiologist would profess satisfactorily to
answer.
The results above recorded (if not produced by rubbing, and apart from
the telepathic feature ill the last ease) seem to involve an equally long step in
another direction. If it was hard to conceive the correspondence of a patch
of minutely localised erethism with the idea of the locality, what are we to
8&y when the patch corresponds with the idf'a to the extent of being
cruciform 1 It cannot be pronounced impo88ible that the cerebral area
involved in the idea of a cross should itself be cruciform j since the same·
elements are no doubt involved as where a Cro88 is visibly presented, and in
the case of a visible CroBS the configuration with which the fibres start from.
the stimulated part of the retina may be preserved at their central terminus.
But no one has ever supposed that a nervous impulse transmitted from
ideational tracts to lower centres, and thence to the periphery, was conveyed
by fibres which retained precisely similar spatial relations, so that the course
of the discharge, wherever cut acr088, would present a similar section. Pass-.
ing inwards from the periphery along the track of nervous disturbance, should.
we find cruciformity of area all the way 1 And if not, where does it stop 't
And if it stops anywhere, what is the connection between the cruciform
effect at the peripliery, and the cause (even if we assume that to be cruci-
form) in the brain 1 In this case, moreover, there would be considerable
difficulty in applying the hypothesis of a hallucination of pain which sets up.'
the appropriate physical condition. For it seems doubtful whether a cruci-.
form pain can be truly imagined, at any rate as occupying a small area of the
body. I do llOt suggest these difficulties as insuperable objections to the
hypothesis of a direct effect j I believe that hypnotic facts carryusconsiderably
beyond any physiological explanatiolls that are yet possible. But phrases
about" the influence of the mind on the body" are so often loosely adduced
as though they were themselves the explanation needed, that it is as well tu
keep the real obscurity of the physiological problems in view.
E.G.
G.-4B2.
ACCOUNT OF THE CHATEAU DE KERSALIOU, ST. POL DE LEON, BRITTANY.
From Mrs. Beaumont, 1, Crescent-road, S. Norwood Park.
February 24th, 1885.
From 1854 to 1859 I was living in this house, which I had taken on lease.
We first arrived at the house about 2 p.m., and I worked hard to get it fit
for sleeping in that night. I was· up working till midnight. The
servants had gone to bed a little before. Just at 12, as I was un-
dre88ing, I heard footsteps go downstairs-the stairs were just outside
Digitized by Google
106 Jo'Umal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [May,l881.
my bedroom door. (The house was a. two-storied honse, with a.
loft at the top.) I concluded it wa.s one of the serva.nts. The same
thing occurred the next night; a.nd, on the third night, getting a.ngry with
wha.t I supposed was foolish careleseness, I sat down just inside my bedroom
door, with the candle in my ha.nd, prepa.red to pounce out on the culprit. I
heard the steps descend the upper flight a.bove my room; I threw open the
door, a.nd saw nobody; but I hea.rd the steps go downstairs. Then it flashed
.acrose me tha.t we had been wa.rned a.ga.inst taking this house, a.s it wa.s
haunted. I had hea.rd from an Englishman who lived in Morla.ix, 16
miles a.way, that several fa.milies had left the hOllse on this a.ccount; but I
had paid no heed to the report, a.nd, indeed, had forgotten it.
Almost every night I used to hea.r these footsteps; and used sometimes
to sit on the stairs holding the bannisters on ea.ch side with my ba.nds.
Nothing corporea.l could have pa.BBed me; but the footsteps distinctly pa.Bsed
me. Two sta.irs in the bottom flight were in the ha.bit of creaking when
trodden upon; and when I hea.rd the steps coming, I would count, a.nd the
erea.k ca.me always regula.rly on these two sta.irs. It was like a. hea.vy unshod
foot. One night, when I was sitting listening for my ghost, a. large rat came
down from upstairs, paBSed under my &rID (in those da.ys I wa.s a.fraid of
nothing), and pa.Bsed down before me; so tha.t I could compare the sound it
made with the other sound. They were totally different.
My husband, and a gentleman who used nea.rly to live with us (since
dead), hea.rd the sound almost every night, and they often watched with me.
I ha.ve repea.tedly followed the footsteps up the stairs. The lIerva.nts a.lso
heard the sounds, but they did not get nervous a.nd did not lea.ve. On the
landing of the second floor was a steep step-ladder which went up to the loft
through a. sliding door ; a.nd I ha.ve repea.tedly followed. the steps up the
ladder, through the slide, a.nd &cross the loft, where they a.lways ended at
the outer wa.ll. It did not ma.tter to the footsteps whether the slide was
shut or open.
One Sunday morning my serva.nt, Catrine, a.sked if I ha.d been ill in
the night, because she and the other serva.nt were sitting up la.te, preparing
their caps, to go to the ea.rly Ma.ss, and the long latch of the door was lifted
quietly, and the door pushed open quickly about half a.-yard; then the
door wa.s pulled to again, and the latch dropped. They thought it must be
I, a.nd that I must be ill, but Catrine went on to the landing. No one was
there; a.nd she looked into the two men serva.nt's rooms, a.nd found both of
them snoring.
It wa.s a new house (30 years old) a.nd had no cellars or ba.sement.
C. BEAUMONT.
We have often had occasion to point out what a. wea.k claBS of evidence
rwiB88 constitute, since they frequently have a. norma.l physical origin which
ca.n be easily conceived, if it cannot actually be traced. Stairs and boa.rds
which have been trodden upon during the da.y will sometimes at night emit
sounds due to the starting ba.ck of the wood to a. condition which the pressure
had disturbed. But this would be very unlikely to ha.ppen regularly in one
stair a.fter a.nother, so as to give the idea. of progreseive footsteps; a.nd on the
-"'. whole, the case, if a.ccurately remembered, is a. puzzling specimen of its class.
Digitized by Google
May,I887.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 107
G.-483.
From Mr. D. M. Tyre, 157, St. Andrews-road, Pollokshields, Glasgow.
October 9th, 1885.
In the summerof 1874, my sister and I went during our holidays to stay with
a gardener and his wife, in a house which was built far up, fully three-quarters
()f a mile, on the face of a hill overlooking one of the most beautiful lochs in
Dumbartonshire, just on the boundary of the Highlands. A charming spot
indeed, although far off the main roadway. We never wearied, and so
delighted were we with the place that my people took a lease of the house for
the following three years. From this point my narrative begins. Being
connected in business with the city, we could not get down to Glen M.
altogether, so that my two sisters and myself were sent away early in May to
have the house put in order, and attend to the garden, &c., &c., for the
coming holidays, when we would be all down together. We had lots of work
to do, and as the nearest village was five miles distant, and our nearest
neighbours, the people at the shore, nearly a mile away, we were pretty
quiet on the hill and left to our own resources.
One day, my elder sister J. required to go to the village for something or
other, leaving us alone; and as the afternoon came on, I went part of the
way to meet her, leaving my other sister L. all alone. When we returned,
about 6 p.m., we found L. down the hill to meet us in a rather excited state,
saying that an old woman had tltken up her quarters in the kitchen, and was
lying in the bed. We asked if she knew who she was. She said no, that the
old wife was lying on the bed with her clothes on, and that possibly she was
a tinker body (a gipsy), therefore she was afraid to go in without us. We
went up to the house with L.; my younger sister L. going in first
said, on going into the kitchen, "There she is," pointing to the bed,
and turning to us expecting that we would wake her up and ask what she
was there for. I looked in the bed and so did my elder sister, but the
clothes were flat and unruffled, and when we said that there was
nothing there she was quite surprised, a.nd pointing with her finger said,
"Look, why there's the old wife with her clothes on and lying with her head
towards the window"; bllt we could not see anything. Then for the first
time it seemed to dawn upon her that she was seeing something that was not
natural to us all, and became very much afraid, and we took her to the other
room and tried to soothe her, for she was trembling all over. Ghost! why
the thought never entered our minds for a second; but we started chopping
wood and making a fire for the evening meal. The very ideaofanyone being in
the bed was ridiculous, so we attributed it to imagination, and life at the
house went on as usual for about two days, when one afternoon, as we were
sitting in the kitchen round the fire, it being a cold, wet day outside, L.
startled us by exclaiming, "There is the old woman again, and lying the
same way." L. did lIot seem to be so much afraid this time, so we asked
her to describe the figure; and with her eyes fixed on the bed and with
motion of the finger, she went on to tell us how that the old wife was not
lying under the blankets, but on top, with her clothes and boots on, and
her legs drawn up as though she were cold; her face was turned to the wall,
and she had on what is known in the Highlands as a "sow-backed mutch,"
that is, a white cap which only old women wear; it has a frill round the
Digitized by Google
108 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1887.
front, and sticks out at the back, thus.* She also wore a drab coloured
petticoat, and a checked shawl round ber shoulders drawn tight. Such was the
description given; she could not see her face, but her right band was hugging
ber left arm, and she saw that the hand was yellow and thin, and wrinkled
like the hands of old people who have done a lot of hard work in their day.
We sat looking at the bed for a long time, with an occasional bit of
information from L., who was the only one who saw the figure.
This happelled often-very often, indeed so frequently that we got;
used to it, and used to talk about it among ourselves as "D.s old woman."
Midsummer came, and the rest of our people from the city, and then
for the first time we became intimate with our neighbours, the two or three
families at the shore. On one occasion my elder sister brought up the subject;
before a Mrs. M'P., our nearest neighbour, and when she described the
figure to ber,Mrs. M'P.well-nigh swooned away, and said that it really was the
case; the description was the same as the first wife of the man who lived in
the house before us, and that he cruelly ill-used his wife, to the extent that
the last beating she never recovered from. The story Mrs. M'P. told runs.
somewhat like this, of which I can only give you the gist:-
Malcolm, the man of the house, and his wife Kate (the old woman),
lived a cat and_ dog life; she was hard-working, and he got tipsy whenever-
he could. They went one day to market with some fowls and pigs, &c., and
on their way back he purchased a half-gallon of whisky. He carried it part of
the way, and when he got tired gave it to her; while he took frequent rests
by the wayside, she managed to get bome before him, and when he came-
home late he accused her of drinking the contents of the jar. He gave her-
such a beating that he was afraid, alld went down to this Mrs. M'P., saying-
that his wife was very ill. When Mrs. M'P. went up to the house she found
Kate, as my sister described, with her clothes on, and lying with her face to-
the wall for the purpose, as Mrs. M'P. said, of concealing her face, which
was very badly coloured by the ill-treatment of her husband. The finish-uJ>'
was her death, she having never recovered.
The foregoing is as nearly a complete compendium of the facts as I, with
the help of my sister J., can remember.
My sister L. is now dead, but we often go back to the house, when we
are allY way near the locality, because it is a bright spot in our memory.
(Signed), D. M. Tnuc.
Mr. Tyre adds, in a letter to Mr. David Stewart, of Kincaid House.
Milton of Campsie, N.B., who procured this account for us:-
I was at the house last month; there is no one in it just now; the last
tenant has gone abroad, and the house is somewhat dilapidated, and the
garden a ruin. We had a look through the window at the old kitchen, and
saw our own grate still remaining.
Mr. Stewart wrote to us 011 August 13th, 1885 :-
I know how valuable the actual names aDd localities would be, as well
as Mrs. M'P.'s independent account, but I have asked 80 repeatedly, and been
told that Mrs. M'P. had great objections to publicity, in case it would rake
up old stories connected with the case, that I do not like to ask again.
* A sketch of the profile was here given.
Digitized by Google
May. 1887.] .Journal of Society for Psychical Re8earch. 109
CORRESPONDENCE.
THE THREE MENTAL CONDITIONS IN THE MINDS OF
TELEPATHIC AGENTS.
To tke Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
DEAR SIR,-In the February Journal, I put forward an idea, without
-adopting it as opinion, that an agent's success in experimental thought-
transference might be found to be in the ratio of his belief that the idea in
his mind would arise in the mind of the percipient. There is no evidence
for this in recorded experiments. I therefore abstained from speculating
how far a similar condition in the agent's mind would be efficacious in spon-
taneous telepathy.
A reverse process is in fact the right one. Spontaneous telepathy is
thought-transference under the microscope. If mental conditions can be
named as always present in the agent's mind in spontaneous telepathy, then
it may be concluded that these are the conditions which ought to be in the
-agent's mind in experimental thought-transference, and which are in fact the
conditions of success. I believe such conditions can be named and that they
-correspond to those cOlJtained in the idea I put forward last·month. The
.great importance of successful experiment, and the great importance to that
end of a due understanding of the mental conditiuns involved, induce me
.again to address you, from a different point of view, upon the same subject.
I. The Comm~ Concept.-From the evidence for spontaneous telepathy,
there appears to be almost universally preseut in the minds of agent and
percipient, A and B, the common concept B. This concept is one in its
nature, elastic, fragmentary, varying. It will be useful to compare it to
the dawn. Now it is all but an abstract idea., as the dawn is at first but a
faint ray. Now it seems as if it would contain all that B thinksand perceives,
.as the whole horizon may become flooded. Generally it contains a limited
part only of B's experience, as when through a break in clouds, a bright
patch of sunrise may be seen changing in dimension and form. And to
pursue the analogy, just as the sun rising may be so hiddt'n by clouds that
·only at a particular point a solitary beam pierces them; so, not in ordinary
language the concept B, but some included particular ('.oncept in B's milld
·(for example, the tomb in the De Freville case), may coincide with a concept
in A's mind. Nevertheless, for such cases it will be convenient here to take
the part for the whole, the sunbeam for the sun, and to regard the existence
in A's mind, as well as in B's, of the common concept B, as the universal
·condition of telepathic action by A upon B. Through it, we must
suppose, B perceives A. And here again it will be convenient always to
regard B as perceiving A, whether A be phantasmally represented in
bodily form or by some other phase. Of the, in a special sense, particnlar
concepts, only that of locality has been discerned by the authors of
Phanta8'11Ul ofthe Livin.9 as a comolon concept in some cases. Perhaps this is
because it is more likely to be a common concept than any other concrete
-concept of this kind. To abstract common concepts, I will make a reference
later.
Digitized by Google
110 J01.wnal of Society for P8ychical Re8earch. [May, 1887.
But observe how convenient the common concept B, regarded as a con-
dition, is in the collective cases. If B has companions at the time of his
experience, they also would have with A the common concept B, and, other
things equal, might be telepathically impressed. And if one, C, though
present, had no concept of his companion B, exceptionally, he might not
have an impression. And if another, D, had a considerably modified concept
of B, he might have a modified impression. And if B were possessed by
any idea and more or less dead to impressions, then possibly E, attent upon
him, might have a full impression, while B himself had none.
Now for the reciprocal cases. If to the common concept a common
percept be added, the condition is likely to be still more effective, and more-
over enable A to perceive B, as well as B, A. In states of apparent
unconsciousness, what would be waking ideas become hallucinations, that is,
percepts; and if A has such a percept of B, upon the analogy of the unifi-
cation of the common concept, there might be unification of the common
percept, (in fact if the one, then necessarily the other) A's per-
cept of Band B's percept of himself becoming coincident not only in
time, but in space. A would actually perceive B ; but in doing so, A's per-
ception would be coalescing with B's, and he therefore might perceive not
only B, but all else that B perceives, the locality, the persons present. In
other words, A would become clairvoyant. And now that A clairvoyantly
perceives B, the common percept, of which the common concept is only the
penumbra, is likely to be more effective in enabling B to perceive A. And
this applies equally to C and D.
The operation of the common percept must be supposed exemplified in
the very curious phenomena of simultaneous dreams, which would otherwise
be the only instance I have found of thought-transference without con-
ditioning community of thought. A, dreaming of, or having in his dream a
percept of any sort, of B, enters by that percept into the external dream-
world of B and clairvoyantly perceives it, perhaps manifesting himself at
the same time telepathically. For there can be no reason for confining
clairvoyance to the waking world, both it and the world of dream being
perception, with the immediate objective correlate (if there be such), in the
brain.
II. Relation.-A is intent upon the concept B. He realises B in his
imagination. B therefore assumes his proper magnitude, and therefore
inversely proportional distance in A's imagination. A and B therefore are
brought into close imagined space relation, either, generally, by the
projection of A or sometimes by the attraction of B, in A's imagination.
It is, then, the idea of A and B in close space relation which is flashed t(}
B, of which the B component, whether it is concept or has deepened int(}
percept, is naturally not perceived by B, it being coincident with that
perpetual concept, or perpetual percept which B has of himself. It is the
A component which he perceives, more or less infected with A's perception
of himself.
Here is the place just to observe that A could not conceive any abstract
concept in space relation to himself. Therefore an abstract common concept
could not bring him into space relation with B. One would think, at the
Digitized by Go
.May. 1887.] Jou'MUJ,l Of Society fm' P8ychical Research. 111
most, it could not produce more than a thought of A in B's mind; but
probably for other reasons it would never be operative.
III. The Unconceived Negative.-Other things equal, telepathic action
would be in the ratio of the vividness in the mind of A of his idea of the
relation A to B. This idea would be most vivid in states of apparent
unconsciousness, when the relation would be conceived as existing without
any negative conception that it did not exist. And in the waking state of
abstraction, the relation may be ideally conceived as existing without any
negative conception that it does not exist, especially when the relation is one~
as in arrival and other cases, which will in brief time necessarily exist-when
it is conceived absolutely as existing in the future, a sort of distance
but faintly apprehended, the object being seen close upon the mental eye.
And if the abstraction deepened into reverie, the concept might become per-
cept, and clairvoyance follow as suggested above. But especially is this
absence from A's mind of the conception of the non-existence of the relation
A to B to be dwelt upon in the case of those sudden and automatic move-
ments of thought which occur at moments of great crisis. As an illustration
of my meaning, see case 339 in PhantaMTt8 of the Living. The agent, thrown
from a horse, called out "Johnnie," because "she fancied Johnnie was
behind her," although she knew he had not accompanied her, and was miles
away. And Johnnie heard her. This fancy, no doubt, was but ofmomentary
duration, and was forthwith negatived by the memory of his absence. I
cannot sufficiently express my gratitude to the agent for recording it, for
otherwiSe the evidence of this "unconceived negative" would be confined in
this last class of cases to the introspective imagination. Realisation of
the mind's action at a sudden crisis should, however, show it to be natural,
reasonable, certain in many cases. Itis a question of habit. In the case cited,
the agent had been accustomed to have Johnnie accompanying her in her
rides. Old beliefs may cause an excited Atheist, I think, to use the word
God without a negative conception. ADd the drowning boy many call "Help~
father," with a momentary unnf'gatived <:onception either that the wonted
help is at hand, or that his cry might be heard as of old in the far-oft' home
to which ill imagination he has projected himself.
Generally, then, and leaving out of view physical conditions, I would
suggest that the mental conditions in the mind of A of telepathic action are,
the common concept B, the idea of relation A to B, and the more or less
absence of the negative conception that this relation does not exist in
reality.
Now, the idea that I put forward in the February Journal was that an
agent's success in experimental thought-transference would be ill the ratio
of his belief that the idea in his mind would arise in the mind of the
percipient.
I. The percipient is the common concept B.
II. The Idea of "the idea in A's mind arlslDg in the mind of
B," is the Idea of the relation A to B, A being represented in the
relation by a particular phase of his consciousness, the idea to be trans-
mitted.
III. The belief that the idea to be transmitted will arise in B, is the
Digitized by Google
112 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [May, 1887.
unnegatived conception of this relation, or the conception of the idea arising,
llnnegatived by the conception of its not arising.
I might be allowed, in conclusion, to refer again to my suggestion that the
will is belief. In that case will is the conception of an action taking place,
unnegatived by the conception that it will not take place. I believe that a
single movement closely observed must now prove to anyone the correctness
of this definition. I believe, also, very little progress can be made in
p",ychical experiment until the mental tools are understood.
I am, dear Sir, yours sincerely,
C. DOWNING.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-On seeing my record of table-tilting experiments in last month's .
Journal, I am struck by one passage which may justly give offence to a.ny
reader holding the Spiritilalistic explanation of such phenomena. I should
stand self-condemned as unworthy to take the humblest part in a scientific
investigation, had I really meant that I should object to experiment with
those" who would regard the matter as the work of spirits." In reality I
should regard it as an additional safeguard of accurate observation if the
operators differed as to the probable explanation of the facts. But in my
carelessly-penned passage, I was referring to some young ladies, of not too
well-disciplined minds, who, because they treated the phenomena as the
work of spirits, got into a state of nervous excitement, injurious to them-
selves and prejudicial to the success of our experiments.-I am, Sir, &c.,
MARIAN GREEN.
SUPPLEMENTARY LIBRARY CATALOGUE
The following additiom have been made since the lcut li8t (Journal for .April):-
HELLENBACH (Baron), Birth and Death as a Change of Form of
Perception. From the German. By" V." (2 copies) ...Lorulon, 1886*
DE ROCHAS (A.), Les Forces non D6finies..............................Pam, 1887
DESPINE (Dr. Prosper), Etude Scientifique sur Ie Somnam-
bulisme ....................................................................•Pari8, 1880
DUFOUR (Dr. E.), Contribution a I'Etude de l'Hypnotisme...Grenobk, 1886
Fl!.M (Dr. Ch.), Sensation et Mouvement................................Pani, 1887t
" " " " (a second copy)...........Pam, 188n
LE LOTUS. Revue des Hautes Etudes Theosophiques. No.1 Pari" 1887§
REVUE DE L'HYPNOTIBME. Nos. 1-10. ...............................Pam, 1886-7
*Presented by the Eclectic Publishing Company.
t Presented by the Author. ::: Prssented by the Publisher.
§ Presented by the Editor.
Digitized by Google
