{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1randy_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Randy K NDE 740","mylang":"de"}
          	        Randy K NDE 740  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Randy K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						249  Randy K NDE  740  					  				  			    		  		  		  		  		        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was the summer in 1974. I was 8 years old with no cares in the world. I used to hang out with my older brothers playing all sorts of games. One game we used to play we named 'pass out'. This game was played by one person would inhale and exhale as deep as they could about ten to twelve times and another person would squeeze their chest until they passed out.


To prove I was worthy of being with my older brothers and their friends, I was the guy who would be the one they would squeeze and pass out. I did this about four times before and nothing ever happened to me. I would pass out and never remember a thing. The very last time I did, it was a different story.


This last time I did this, we did it across the street from our house. I must have passed out as usual, but this time I floated out of my body and here I was hovering about ten feet above my two brothers and a friend. I remember them giggling and laughing at me and I remember getting mad or angry that they were laughing at me (my body). At the time, I didn't even think that what was happening to me was odd or unusual. I just had a feeling of 'total love' surround me and I felt so good, like never before.


As I sat there looking at my brothers I started to go up a little higher until I was above the big tree and soon I could see the top of our house. I then started to gradually start drifting across our neighborhood and soon I was high enough to see the entire village like I was flying in an airplane. As I approached the high school, which is the last building at the end of town, I started to shoot straight up into a white light. I was fine up to that point but I started to think to myself that I might never come back and I wanted to 'go home'. As soon as I thought that thought, I heard a voice say, 'You're not ready yet.' Immediately after hearing that voice, I zoomed at what seemed like a thousand miles an hour right back into my body and woke up with a big jolt.


I mentioned what happened to me briefly to my mother but she just thought I was making up something at the time and my brothers all laughed at me. I never mentioned it again until years later when I saw a episode of 'Unsolved Mysteries' and I said, 'That happened to me.' I asked my brother years later about that day and he said at the time that I wasn't breathing and they started kicking me to wake up and I finally did obviously. He said for a while there, they really got scared.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    1974

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     Playing a game.   Passed out and quit breathing

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was still the same person as the one I was looking down at (my physical body). I still felt like I had my hands, my legs, my head, etc. I actually don't recall seeing it but I was still 'all together'. I just didn't have a physical body. After what I experienced, I feel like my body is just a shell that I have to be in until I die.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      My consciousness and alertness were one hundred percent just like if I was in my own body.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It seemed like I was out of my body for hours but actually was probably gone for three to five minutes.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No unusual sounds that I can recall. I could hear my brothers talking and laughing at me but nothing unusual. I also heard a voice say, 'You're not ready yet.'

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I started to go up through a tunnel with white light at the end but I immediately knew at that time that I would never come back to my body and I wanted to go back. I was in the tunnel a very short period of time. There really wasn't a feeling of time there but in my mind I wasn't in the tunnel long.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was at the end of the tunnel. I didn't stay in it long as I got scared as I started to go higher and higher and wanted to go back.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I must have had a say because as soon as I thought that I might never come back to play with my brothers I said in my mind that I wanted to go back to them and my family. I was scared at that point. I was immediately transported back into my physical body.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     At the time I was so young and afraid to discuss it with anyone and I shrugged it off but it always stayed with me. Ten years or so later was the first time I heard about an NDE. My attitudes and beliefs have changed since then. I am more spiritual now and I do believe in life after death.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   First of all, it was like nothing I ever experienced, therefore it was too hard to describe, plus being a young boy, I was afraid that nobody would believe me and laugh at what I had to say.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Since I was ten years old I can't actually say that I was psychic prior to the event. I do consider myself somewhat psychic, as I got older though. I can pretty much read most people and many times I know what they are going to say before they say it.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was just the feeling I had when I left my body and that I had the opportunity to come back. The worst part now is trying to figure out why this happened to me and what is my reason for being here. I really have no clue yet what role I have here on Earth and why I was allowed to return.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I shared it with my family members mostly and a few friends. Nobody honestly believes me when I tell them. I am sure, and I guess, if I had never experienced it I would have a hard time believing it too. I guess you have to experience it yourself and only a few lucky ones have ever had that chance to do so.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1randy_k_nde.html