{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1randy_m_nde_5083.html","mytitle":"Randy M NDE 5083","mylang":"de"}
          	        Randy M NDE 5083  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  			          Randy M NDE  			            			            			            Home  			            Classification NDE  			            2635 Randy M NDE 5083  		                		              		                			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a successful business man, entrepreneur, inventor, until 1999 when I became victim to alcohol. I was committed to treatment in Madison, Wisconsin, in the latter part of 1999. Eight days into the treatment program, in my sleep, I fell into a type of seizure that the doctors could not describe. Not knowing anything because I was asleep, I all of a sudden realized that I was looking down at myself on the floor from the room above, moving slowly away. As I was looking down, I saw two paramedics working on me.  Three of my friends were watching over me. At this time and through the rest of the experience, I had no feelings about what I was looking back at. Nothing had any value anymore, my body meant nothing to me either. As I was slowly moving away, I felt myself moving through a wall.  There was a black rectangle I saw which I realized was a stud in the wall in front of me. After moving through the wall, for a moment, I realized I had entered a new dimension of consciousness. I suddenly realized that I was in the control of some being so powerful it was overwhelming. It was the GOD that I had so hard tried to believe in on earth. The following feelings I experienced cannot be felt while in the human consciousness. The first thing I felt was that I had no body; I felt like I was going to fall but then realized I could not. I realized that I had all my faculties and could still reason.

At that moment, I felt the presence of my creator and that my struggle to believe in a God on earth was over. 'IT' had complete control over me, which was so soothing it is indescribable. 'IT' was emanating an unconditional love of 'ITSELF' and for me. My GOD was taking me and it felt so good. I felt no pain anymore nor any of the other miseries felt on earth, including time, there was no time. I was in total comfort. Through this, GOD gave me a feeling but no 'sight' of something, someplace that was so horrible for those that rejected HIM on earth. To this day, I carry that same feeling. After all this, as I was moving toward an opening or something, something I could not make out yet. I was just entering HIS light, different from what we know on earth, when GOD spoke to me, in a voice unlike any on earth. It was all telepathic between us but was like talking on earth. God then asked me a question. 'Is there anything worthy of ME to go back for?' Instantly there was only one thing that came to me. It was the woman in my life who I loved so much. My love for her expressed the same love that HE was all about. I replied, 'My Nancy.' I had never felt this type of love for anything or anybody in my life except for her. At that moment, I reversed my floating and I followed my path back to my body where I felt this heavy pounding on my chest. As I started to awaken, I could barely see the two paramedics over me. I was in a semi-conscious state all the way to the hospital and into hours in emergency. As I was coming to, I didn't know what happened to me because I had been asleep through all this. A doctor had come in who was treating me and said he couldn't diagnose what happened. Minutes after that, the two paramedics came in to see if I was all right. It was at this time that I just started to realize something? As the paramedics turned to walk away, I saw the backsides to their heads and realized that I had seen the backside of them before. I couldn't have seen them before, as I did, without being behind them somewhere.

As I was recuperating for hours in emergency, I started getting bits and pieces of what seemed to be a dream I had. This went on for hours until I realized I had died and it was no dream!!! It was amazing, but I was given all the feelings that I felt on the other side through this recall. While back in the treatment center I had asked my friends about what had happened and where they were standing while I was on the floor? They told me exactly what I saw from the other side!!! I realized what a thin layer exists between life and death, which I consider now as life after life. Dreams are forgotten but this was no dream. It is almost twelve years now since this happened and to this day, when I lay down to sleep, I immediately find myself reliving that venture. Throughout the day, I will find myself back there for only a moment. Though this didn't change my life so much at the time, it was several years later that a brilliant light, the same light of GOD, came out of the sky and was shown to me in my backyard. Perhaps the HOLLY SPIRIT? In a moment my life had changed!!! The meaning of my trip to the other side became apparent. I now know what loving one another and helping one another was all about. I finally knew the true meaning of humility and that earthly things absolutely don't matter to me anymore. I became possessed with undoing the wrongs of my life and replacing them with all good things in the eyes of GOD. I believe all this to be true and correct and nobody can take this away from me or change my mind about it. Thank you, finally, to share this experience and, perhaps, enlighten others!!!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'October 7, 1999'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    seizure  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   While asleep, I fell into a seizure. It took fifteen minutes for the ambulance to arrive and I don't know how long it took them to revive me. I saw myself dead on the floor from up in the corner of the room.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was experiencing the wonderful new feelings, that is where I realized where I was and what was happening to me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I knew I was in a different dimension of time and space, I could see and feel it. I knew that time did not exist anymore.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was limited to the area of about the size of an average room. I could see objects and people clearly but everything was in a state of a gray light fuzziness. Nothing was transparent except the wall I was traveling through.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Except it was telepathic.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I was only first approaching what seemed to be an opening to something that is where the voice came to me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   Not exactly, but I had a sense of it being there, it just wasn't time for me to see it.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     I have had "visions" of my future in the past and one takes me in the after life to a place of beauty in the hills with two angels escorting me, I believe this is awaiting me in the future. All my visions in my life have all come to be.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt nothing about what I was leaving behind me. Then I started to feel the wonders of God's feelings around me. I had no remorse for dying, I understood it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I did learn that there is a wondrous GOD on the other side waiting for me the next time. My life to this day has been changed due to the experience; I live a more spiritual live now, with a conscious contact with GOD.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The boundary was the moment I realized I was in a different dimension.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   native American

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     My beliefs and practices are Native American of which have not changed. I have met The Great Spirit in the Happy Hunting Ground.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   native American

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     My beliefs and practices are Native American of which have not changed. I have met The Great Spirit in the Happy Hunting Ground.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I carry traits of a shaman and my abilities have been sharpened since.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        My struggle on earth to believe in GOD was over, HE does exist.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It took me years to open up to anyone and when I did people where all skeptic or thought I was off the wall, so I limit who I tell this story to.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had only read it briefly in articles.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     REAL!!! I could not have seen things or recognized things back in the room without being somewhere else. Remember I was asleep when this happened.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is now almost twelve years since it happened and it is just as real to me as it was then. I relive the experience every night when I go to bed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Substances enhance my experience, I refrain from using them.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I pity that atheist, agnostics and those that blatantly reject GOD, because there is a special place for them that I want no part of and do not want to ever see.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Not at this time. Thanks for allowing me to share and help you, Randy.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1randy_m_nde_5083.html