{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1raven_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Raven R NDE 3178","mylang":"de"}
          	        Raven R NDE 3178  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Raven R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1261 Raven R NDE 3178  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As my body was separating itself from my spirit, I could actually feel the warmth of my surrounding as I looked down on the emergency medical technicians trying to reawaken me. I popped up into a surrounding that was white mist cloud; I saw white granite structures illuminated from the inside out. I smelled roses, honeysuckles, vanilla oranges, cinnamon, myrrh, and more all rolled into one fragrance. The flowers were surrealistic, light and bright or deep and comforting.

Then it happened. I felt a hand on my right shoulder. As I tried to turn to look, the voice was a man's voice that was soft, calming and creamy. His hand was like an aurora borealis, like in Alaska, you could see the shape but the skin was crystalline of all colors, long lanky fingers, and medium wrist. He said, 'Raven, you cannot stay this is not your time, you need to go back now.' I said, 'I just got here, who are you?' He said, 'You know who I am.' I said 'God?' He said yes. I thought God was a woman, my heroes and warriors were all women, I believed in the sacred feminine based on my childhood. Though my mother was Catholic, my grandmother raised me and aunts separate from my siblings to be a medicine woman. He then said, 'You must leave and you must leave now.' I said I don't want to go. 'You raven have much to do, it is not over for you.'

The next thing I know is that I was pushed back into my body, the body that was in pain, from the defibrillator pounding on by heart, I was freezing at thirty-one degrees; I was bewildered why God did not want me. We arrived at St. Mark's Hospital, and I am hooked up, pumped with stuff I cannot even pronounce. Finally, still in a defibrillator, with the real fact that the doctors will have to stop my heart and then restart it in the morning if the drugs do not work. But a weird thing happened, I couldn't close my eyes. I think the drugs were too much for me to handle. There was a sense of not knowing, no fear, just not knowing what the mortals were going to do.

A nurse, with a white angel wing crisp hat, starched white uniform, white seamed stocking, and white bright shoes and gloves a blue wool cape with red lining and nurse insignias on her left area above the breast area. She sits down and the smell of roses, gardenias, hyacinths all flowers but none separate. It lingered around here and came towards me; the room was bright around her. She reminded me of Clara Barton or what she could look like. She asked if I would like to leave with her. I said God doesn't want me yet he said I had a mission. She said that God had changed his mind and thought that perhaps I would go. I said I wanted to stay, I do not know what God wants, but I will do my best to follow whatever he directs me to. I said I love him, his son and the spirit. She said God loves me to. I cried, I reached for a tissue and she was no longer there.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  NOV. 1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'I WAS PLACED IN THE EMERGENCY VEHICLE, MY BLOOD PRESSURE WAS DROPPING, I WAS COLD, 67 DEGREES AND DROPPING.  I WAS LEAVING MY BODY AND LOOKING DOWN INTO THE AMBULANCE AT THE EMT'S TRYING TO RECESSITATE ME, I HAD NO PAIN, NO FEAR, NOTHING BUT JOY, WARMTH,  Atrial fibrillation beats to 400/per min. Body temp, plummeting to below thirty-three degrees or less. Unable to breathe. Abdomen pain, vomiting.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The moment I saw it was becoming warm and rising. And the conversation with God.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The altered time I felt was for many days, but actually was less than one hour.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Intensity was profoundly amped up. Some of it I cannot put into words. It was different.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sharper, I could hear small sounds, ladybugs.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I believed I saw God, not as a female as I thought, but as a man.  The other person I saw was in my hospital room, she looked human.  Where God was shaped but more like an aurora borealis crystalline mist in a shape of a man.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   As I entered it was ethereal bright but not blinding.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I experienced only joy, love, compassion, all the great words but no fear. Peacefulness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'PRACTICING SHAMAN, WICCA, TEACHER AND MENTOR'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am now a Christian, still practice some shaman ways, but not Wicca.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'CHRISTIAN,SPIRTUALIST.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am now a Christian, still practice some shaman ways, but not Wicca.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This experience has ramped up my ESP/intuitiveness more. I have had it before. But this is different. I am ruled by more love and compassion and lessons to be learned and to teach.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am better for it for God so trusts me I do not want to let him down.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The words could not describe the beauty of that moment. The smells, the honey. Feeling of love, unbelievable. Life enhancing.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Passing people and I can tell if they are either evil or good. Knowing who I was going to marry, ten years before he did. Pregnancies. Hands on and telling them what was wrong with them and being feeling sure. On and on. My paradigm is changed.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, when God told me that we would meet again, but I have much to do on earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only friends. A handful. Now you.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The serenity of this showed through actions. I felt I glowed.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I came back to teach what God is about. By being kinder, generous, loving, patient, open minded already and now I am a chasm, I can go on. That God is a man and not a woman.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I believe that God gives us all a path to choose, I believe NDErs are God's special children and he wants us to make sure we teach all we speak to.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I do not know what to ask, I can draw a picture for you.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1raven_r_nde.html