{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1randy_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Randy P Probable NDE 3805","mylang":"de"}
          	        Randy P Probable NDE 3805  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Randy P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			1783 Randy P Probable NDE 3805  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember getting into the medicine cabinet and taking the valium, a lot of valium. Sometime later, my parents discovered that I had taken the pills and they completely freaked out. I was then driven to the local hospital (I remember feeling really peaceful in the car ride). I remember getting into the operating room the large overhead light, being on the bed and the doctor talking to me while he put a rubber mask with an attached accordion tube to my face (then I was out).

I remember walking with Jesus holding his right hand along a path in a 'park' area. Any attempts to describe the beauty of this experience are futile. I remember seeing other 'souls' walking in the area. I told Jesus that I wanted to stay but He said that I had to go back, that there were things I had yet to do. I remember at the end of the experience that I was watching myself hold his hand from a distance in an area that was darker. I don't remember too much of when I 'came to'.

Not too long after the experience, I was watching TV (lying down facing the TV on the kitchen table) and the next thing I knew; I was watching myself watch TV from the ceiling.

I don't know if it's because of the NDE I had or if God had always given me 'gifts' (among them, knowing future events).

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Late Summer 1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    overdose of mother's valium.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had gotten into the medicine cabinet and taken my mother's valium (thought they were candy).

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       For me 'consciousness' and 'alertness' and 'highest level' don't apply as terms I would use as much as 'pure spiritual being' and that would be during the entire experience. I have always felt as though I've lived half in this world and half in the spirit realm since the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No Time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Not explainable.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    See above.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus. See above.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Not explainable.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Yes and No. I could know the future if I wanted too but during the experience, nothing came into 'view'.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Hadn't formed any religious concept yet.  I hadn't been to church.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Jesus.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'Church of God - Cleveland, TN.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Jesus.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   It's not specific 'items' so much as access to 'higher levels'.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Because it happened when I was so young my relationships have been directly affected by the change it effected in me.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Kind of like a 2D character trying to describe a 3D+ world.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Don't know if the experience was a beginning point for my gifts.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being with Jesus. Can't explain - you'll see one day.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't share it until I was in my twenties. Most people are inspired by my recounting the experience. Yes. Made them consider the eternal and where they were going after this life.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Absorbed it into my being.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Wish you could know what I do in the way I know it.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1randy_p_probable_nde.html