{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1randi_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Randi S NDE 952","mylang":"de"}
          	        Randi S NDE 952  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Randi S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						409  Randi S NDE  952  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I woke up sweating. I know I heard my mom call me, but I couldn't move. It's not that I had stayed up late the night before and I didn't do anything the night before to make me this tired, I just couldn't move. I closed my eyes again hoping that the sleep would go away, I had to get up for school.


I heard my mom call me again, and I opened my eyes. I could see that she had left the light on for me. I wanted to get up and get ready for school, but I couldn't move. I knew that something was very wrong. I wanted to call out for someone to help me move, but my voice wouldn't work either. I thought to myself that I should be afraid, but I also knew that I had to get someone to come to me. I heard a knock on the door and heard my mom let someone in. I wondered if it was someone coming to help me. I closed my eyes again.


When I opened them again I knew that I had to do something fast, because I kept going back to sleep, I had to get my mom's attention. I could hear her talking with a neighbor; I knew that she couldn't help me from there. I used all my strength and all the concentration that I could to move my arms. They fell across my chest and I could feel my eyes close again. I tried to fight it but I couldn't and my eyes closed again.


When I opened my eyes again I knew that I only had a few minutes to get some help. I could hear my mom call me again. I tried to answer, but my sister in the other room down the hallway drowned out my feeble attempt at saying anything. I could feel myself burning up from the inside. I needed help, I tried to lift my arms again, except this time I used every ounce of strength I had and threw them away from me. I fell out of bed and rolled a little distance. I closed my eyes again, then opened them and now could muster enough strength to crawl about a foot dragging the rest of my body behind me. I lost all strength and saw darkness. I was beginning to feel fright, but knew that if I let panic take a hold of me, I knew that I would die right there on the floor of my bedroom. I struggled some more in the darkness, and pulled myself a few more feet, then had to rest. My neck felt like it was on fire and my arms were turning into jelly, I knew that I didn't have much more strength. I knew that I was beginning to die. I let the panic flow through me, and then pulled myself out to the hallway. I tried to call for help, but I didn't have any more strength. I was wondering what I was going to do when, with one last pull of energy that came from nowhere, I hit the wall and yelled one time, 'MOM!'


I heard people running through the house and could hear someone; all the people sounded alike now, ask me what was wrong. I closed my eyes.


When I regained consciousness I was in an ambulance, I remember the loud siren and people in there with me that made me feel a little better. I didn't die after all. I opened my eyes and saw someone holding on to me with a very sad look on their face. I knew that I wasn't doing very well. I could feel my arms now and my legs and wish that I couldn't. My whole body was on fire. I could feel the heat coming off myself as if in a heat wave. I could feel the heat escaping, but the pain in my arms, legs, and neck and back was excruciating. I wanted to tell the people that were there that I was in deep pain, but the blissful sleep washed over me.


I couldn't open my eyes, but I was awake again, the pain returned, but I knew that I was no longer in the ambulance. I wished the pain would end. A hand opened my eye and shined a light in it, I could feel pain go through my eye into my brain, but I couldn't do anything about it. I fell into sleep again, until I felt several hands on me. I was being moved from the gurney to a bed. I saw many people in with me when I was able to open my eyes. They all looked very intense. I was wondering what was wrong with me, and why I was being placed into a coital position, and then closed my eyes again as a needle went into my spine.


The next time I woke up, I was being put back into an ambulance. I could see the look on my dad's face. He was there. I felt really bad for him, he looked like he was in pain. I heard someone tell my dad to follow the ambulance; I hoped that he was all right. I also wondered why I was being taken to another place, and then I closed my eyes again.


I was being prodded and pushed when I woke up.  I was in another hospital, this time I was in a bed. My head was tilted on its side as if sleeping when I opened my eyes. I saw my mom looking at me. I was able to whisper and I asked her, 'Am I going to die mommy?' She looked at me and said that I would be all right. I remember being put into that coital position again and could feel the needle going into my spine again, this time there was no pain. I saw the doctor look at the tube of fluid he pulled out of me. It was a brownish color with little specks in it, which turned out to be blood. He said something in a hurry and I passed out again.


I was still unconscious when I was taken to a room with a large bathtub in it and put in the tub, then ice was being put all around me. The ice would just melt into warm water as soon as it touched me. I had a fever of one hundred and fourteen degrees. I don't know how long I was in there, the next thing I remember was the doctor telling my mom and dad that I had to be placed in quarantine. I couldn't move again and my eyes wouldn't open. I could hear everything going on around me but it was as if I was listening to a radio show. Then that ever-peaceful sleep came over me.


The next thing I heard was that I was in a coma. I could hear people talking, but couldn't make out too many words; they all seemed as if they were talking in a foreign language to me. I thought that that was weird. I could hear my mom telling me about baseball. She was telling me that what was happening to me was like a baseball game. I was one of the players and I had to hit the ball out of the park to win the game. I tried to hear everything that she was telling me but I couldn't hold on very long. I could still hear my mom and dad talking to the doctor sometime later. I had a blood clot, of all things, the size of a baseball forming behind my heart and it had to be drained or I would die. He told my parents that there was a slim chance that I would or could survive the operation, but that it was the only option available.


They were going to use a tube through my leg and somehow get it to the clot behind my heart.  I didn't hear the rest of what he was going to have to do, I passed out again, although I was still in the coma, I could periodically hear what was going on around me, I just couldn't move or say anything. I knew when the operation was happening, I was starting to wake up when the tube was in me, and they were in the middle of the operation. They couldn't give me any kind of anesthesia, as I was already comatose. I heard someone yell he's flat-line, and then I went into the darkness.


I wasn't in darkness for too long a time. I could feel myself moving, but I knew it wasn't on the table any longer. There were thousands of colors in front of me. It looked like I was watching the Aurora Borealis. Then as if one of the rainbows of colors saw me, it came right at me and lifted me. I could feel myself moving along the rainbow as if it was solid, kind of like on an escalator, except I was sitting down. I was watching the colors as I rode along the rainbow, and then, as if it was a wave, one of the colors hit me. I was immediately awash with an emotion, the emotion was the only emotion that I could feel, and then it was quickly replaced by another as I kept getting hit by the colors that were pure emotion. I felt pure anger, absolute love, jealousy, fear, happiness, and others that I cannot name. I was totally immersed within that emotion until another one ran into and through me. I was becoming part of the rainbow. I knew that I was dead, but I didn't know what to do. I looked beyond the rainbow that I was on and saw other rainbows. I wondered if other people were on the other ones. I could tell that the colors were starting to fade, as did the feelings that they were throwing into me. Finally, I stopped as if at a dock. I stood up and stepped off the rainbow. I was in what looked like a foggy, gray area. It looked almost as if it was a cave. I saw a figure approach me and started to feel better.


The figure was my deceased uncle. I stood before him and he told me that I was not where I was supposed to be. I looked around and could see a very bright light off in the distance and to my right. He nodded to me and said yes, that it's heaven. I looked back at him and he held out his massive hand to me. When I took it, I could see things in my mind; my mind was filling up with knowledge. In that split second that he touched my hand, I knew everything there was to know, or will be known, except one thing. He looked at me and told me that I had a choice. I could go into the light and into heaven, he told me that he would guide me there, or I could go back as it wasn't my time.


In an instant, I was throwing the covers off my head. I was back in the hospital, surrounded by other dead people that were waiting to go to the hospital morgue. I opened my eyes and felt fine. I heard a blood-curdling scream and saw a nurse run out of the room. Minutes later a group of people came back into the room.


I found out later that I had been declared dead and had been in that state for thirty-two minutes. I also found out that there were fourteen of us from my school that had contracted Spinal Meningitis. I was the only one that survived the disease. I was number fourteen. I was tested for the disease, but it was not to be found in my body. I was asked to stay in the hospital for an additional two weeks for tests to find out what had happened and why I was alive.


During the testing, they took vials of blood and X-rays, tested my range of motion, and asked me many questions. No one asked me about the period when I was dead. I didn't tell anyone, as they didn't seem interested in anything other than why I was alive. The doctor told me on the day that I was leaving, that I was going to be placed in the annals of medicine. I left feeling fine. When I returned, I could feel all of the knowledge that my uncle gave me slowly disappear. I knew it would only be a matter of time before all the new knowledge would eventually be gone.


A short time after I got out of the hospital, I started noticing weird things happening, When I would go near a TV or radio it would change stations, if I got too close to a light it would burn out. Not just house lights, but street lights as well. Other electrical devices would 'freak' out whenever I would get near them. Then it too went away.


I was given a gift from the experience. I realized later after taking another IQ test, that I had gained a few points. My IQ tested out at one hundred and seventy-five. But it was not like I had learned the knowledge, but rather, for a lack of another explanation, been programmed with it. There was none of the experience associated with having it all your life, so I didn't, and to an extent even today, do not know how to use it to its fullest potential. I feel as if there is a key piece missing.


I have been told over and over again, that I am a miracle and that I have some purpose or something that I am going to do since I never made the choice that my uncle gave me. I have no doubt that a miracle did occur, but as far as the purpose - I am still waiting.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    07/14/1976

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Clinical death Spinal Meningitis.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Wide-awake.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Deceased uncle.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   To the right of where I was standing.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Gray area - lots of colors - see details above.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Everything.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes - See detailed explanation above.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     But they left soon afterwards with everything else.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     Like a dock.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Yes, but even though I had been given the choice - it was immediately stripped away. The 'choice' was made for me.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Catholic

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I know that there is another place - of this there can be no doubt - I may be saying this wrong but my 'Faith' (believing in something you cannot see) has been replaced with fact.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     For a short time - The magnetic / radio frequency abnormality. The IQ has been tested four times due to various trauma and seizures (neuro cardiac syncope - afterwards).

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Seeing my uncle - getting hit by the colors of emotion.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    That is why I wrote the account above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Not following but prior - I was born a 'blue' baby - cord wrapped around my throat and remember being in a colorful 'tunnel' as I was being born - similar but not the same.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I came back - a miracle - but why?

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I have been 'yea yea'd' all my life. If this helps your research then great - if not, at least I got to tell the whole world my story *finally* Thank you.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1randi_s_nde.html