{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ramon_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Ramon Probable NDE 6320","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ramon Probable NDE 6320  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ramon Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3099 Ramon Probable NDE 6320  					  				  			       			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was around 5 pm on that day in October 2004 that I felt very tired. I asked myself ‘why do I feel like this?’  I wasn't doing anything different from the day before. My other self answered me and said, ‘Ramón you need to get some rest.’  When I lay down on the bed I felt as if an elephant was sitting on my chest, then I left my body. 

There appeared tunnels of light; at no point did I stop thinking or looking. Occasionally, I dodged around black spaces. (I think that when you leave your body you travel at incredible speed; this makes the stars pass by in a blur so I could see tunnels of light.) When I came to a stop, I was facing a person identical to me, though I did not believe that it was me. Instinctively, I went to him and embraced him. After 20 years in the garment business, I noticed he wore a white shirt and pants, and carried a sky-blue bag. I was aware that he was entirely energy. I wanted to see his face, but he no longer had a face. (I have come to understand that the light takes human form in order to assist us, because on arriving there we do not yet realize we are no longer human.) 

Next I wanted to go through the door of light, and he told me: I could not, I had to go back; so I let myself return for my daughter, Melissa. Before re-entering my body, I stopped in that place, people speak of, where there is peace and tranquility: next to the light which emerges as if from a tunnel. It was there that I thought I was going crazy, as I was surrounded by thousands and thousands of energies (spirits) like myself, all moving towards the place from where I was returning. I went over to the left and came upon another very big group of energies; from these one detached himself and went down on his knees, as if begging   forgiveness from me. I did not recognize him, initially, (though later I did). 

From this immense gathering of energy is born a long line of energies (spirits) going towards and delivering themselves to where the light ended. When I approached this line, I did not like the feeling there. (It was like the feeling of having studied hard for an exam, and then failing it despite all the study.) I looked again at the place where I first arrived, and could still see thousands and thousands of energies appearing and disappearing, going towards the place from where I was returning. I wanted to go on looking because I wanted to understand what that place was. Then I felt myself being called. I entered through my head down as far as my feet. ‘In this life and the next, stay in the light, Ramón.’

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  octubre 2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   I believe it was a wake-up call, but from a scientific point of view, I think it was a heart-attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It's not so easy to answer, and the reason I say this is that I did not want to come back, I wanted to cross over. The light does not let you, so I realize that although you may think you are alert and conscious, the light is aware that you do not understand what's going on.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout. The main problem is that we think we are dreaming, as it is an unknown mode of life for human beings, and the religions just confuse us.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time does not exist there.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The same.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The same.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Passages of light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The person who detached himself from the group on the left and knelt in front of me, was my dad.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I just saw light. And some black parts which I avoided.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     This is a place outside human understanding, something you do not expect to see in your lifetime.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       At first, curiosity at being in contact with the light; I felt normal, but on entering the place of peace and tranquility, where the light is equivalent to a torchlight, it was very lovely. The reason is that you feel that everything is part of you and you are part of everything you see.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I can now understand the connection between humanity, the universe and the creator.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No     What happened to me in one of these visions was that I was in front of a black pit, something told me to destroy it, and I did not. This is something that until now I cannot understand why I did not do it.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I don't really understand the question. I twice conversed with a being superior to us. Twice I saw people behind a wall, not physical bodies but their energies.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   If you are not ready, the light will not receive you.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   sigo siendo catolico, pero ya no puedo seguir ninguna religion al cien po ciento.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I just follow the message of Christ. There is no way that you can forget the first experience, just as I will not be able to forget the meeting with Christ and Mother Nature, or the four experiences of December 2011.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   despues de tener una experiencia como la mia te das cuenta que las religiones estan de mas, con migo la experiencia sigue en diciembre tube 4 esperiencias pero practicamente cada diciembre pasa algo.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Solo  el mensaje de Cristo que es universal te aplica igual creas en el o no, amaos unos a otros como ati mismo, pues todos somos luz.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I just follow the message of Christ. The message of Christ, which is universal, applies to you whether or not you believe. Love one another as you love yourselves, since we are all light. The creator is light, the universe we know is all based on light, and we are intelligent energy.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   When you enter this place there is no sounded language, it is a language of feelings. I saw Jesus in another experience at the beginning of December 2008, next to Mother Nature. I knew whom Jesus was and what he attempted to do, without believing he was directly the son of the creator.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   La persona que se desprendió del grupo de la izquierda, que se postro ante mí, era mi papa.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No     No en la experiencia, pero después, tuve pasajes visiones que yo ya estaba haya, pero yo me ofrecí a regresar, también descubrí quien se me ha atravesado en otras vidas pasadas, e impide  que yo haga mi trabajo.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Universo inteligente, somos energía inteligente, luz.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     El creador es luz, el universo que conocemos esta todo basado sobre la luz, somos energía inteligente.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Reproducir la vida y la vida es luz.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Entiendo muy claramente, amaos unos a otros como a ti mismo, entiendo el porqué de la reencarnación,  incluyendo lo que la religión me enseño por purgatorio.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Si todos somos luz.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I feel more love for humanity and I feel the pain of others. Large changes in my life.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   La primera experiencia no ay forma que la olvides, como tampoco podre olvidar el encuentro con Cristo y la madre naturaleza, o las cuatro experiencias de diciembre 2011.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am very sensitive.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Intelligent Universe, we are intelligent energy, light. We are all light. To tell humanity at large that whatever anyone may believe, we are all light. I understand very clearly. Love one another like yourselves. I understand the reason for reincarnation, including what religion has taught me about purgatory.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Some say I am special, others weep when I tell them. The blind are the ones who touch me most, as they say they feel great peace when they feel me near them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     That is why I thought I was going crazy. Because it was too real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is the threshold of the unknown life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There are too many things. The reason I do this is that in one of my visions I clearly understood: ‘Ramón cannot come before he passes on his message’. Not in the experience, but afterwards, I had visionary episodes of being there before, then volunteering to come back. I also discovered who has crossed my path in other lives, and prevents me doing my work.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       A lot of things occur to me. Religions have confused everything. I can see into origins of them all, even the strangest of cults. For this reason, I cannot make any other suggestions.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ramon_probable_nde.html