{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ramiro_j_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Ramiro J NDE-Like 2224","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ramiro J NDE-Like 2224  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ramiro J NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						756  Ramiro J NDE-Like  2224  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I have always liked to read books related to mysteries, enigmas and the supernatural. I recently bought some books such as 'The Divine Comedy' that contain supernatural experiences, 'out of the earth' experiences and others that describe what the Catholic Christian religion call 'purgatory'. I thought that all this about purgatory was maybe something unreal but I realized that it exists and it is real; I did not see it but I felt it near. One night, after reading about this subject, I remember I went to sleep. Everything looked normal and I remember clearly - and I know it was not a dream or hallucination because I was perfectly conscious - even though it started as a dream, soon it became in something very real. I first felt that during my dream my soul detached from my body and went up towards the ceiling. I was terribly desperate and wondered if this was death. I really thought it was my end; everything was so dark and deserted, I felt so lost and desperate when suddenly my body started falling down, at an incredible speed. I felt that I was nearing a dark and gloomy place and nobody would hear me. I was so desperate that I started crying for help. Then I felt my brother's voice who yelled my name and I woke up very scared. I realized that purgatory does exist and it is horrible. I think I lived this experience so I can tell people that it is true that this horrible place (that Christians call purgatory or sorrow place) exists in another dimension. I do not recommend anyone to go to that place.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 4/21/05  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Leer libros sobre el purgatorio y cielo del libro la Divina Comedia  Other Condición normal  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was so desperate that when I started falling my consciousness and alertness were at their peak to the point of yelling for help.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the moment I left my body and my soul was lifted to the ceiling; there I realized that it was not a dream but something real.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     It was a dark and gloomy and place where no one could see me or hear me.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All was dark.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Desperation, terror, fear, sadness, absolute loneliness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I am Catholic.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I am Catholic.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That terrible places also exist in another dimension; that we should go to eternity prepared.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain A little and only in certain aspects. At the moment I do not want to read about this subject again.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That there are gloomy places in another dimension.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The next day I told my brothers and they were scared to hear about it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Read Catholic books about people who visited the other dimension; the spiritual dimension.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     And something I would never forget.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       This was not a near to death experience but it was an experience related to soul detachment from body where I experienced that far beyond there existed a gloomy, dark and isolated place.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ramiro_j_ndelike.html