{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1randall_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Randall S NDE 4955","mylang":"de"}
          	        Randall S NDE 4955  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Randall S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2549 Randall S NDE 4955  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My dad and some of his friends were in a garage working on a car, they were in the front by the walk in door which was open at the time. I was in the back of the garage playing. The car was running he didn't know I was in the garage, so it had been running for a while. When they heard something hit the back bumper, they realized I was in there.

I went quickly through a tunnel and was met by two shimmering beings who stayed with me the entire time. The first place I went was a crystal city where everything was vibrant and alive. These beings took me to different rooms within the crystal city, one of the rooms I came to know as the room of knowledge. In this room, I knew all there was to know about everything. The beings didn't let me keep all the knowledge I gained at that time. 

The next room seemed to be a giant hall, where I was told all the great healers of the world were and I was amongst them. At that time, I didn't know what that meant, the next room was octagon shaped and it had what appeared to be a well in the middle of the floor. I seemed to be at the edge of the well before I knew it.  As I looked into the well, I saw what seemed to be moving and churning energy. It was in the shape of confetti and had all the colors of the rainbow. I put my hands into the well and felt the energy of it. It felt like static electricity and seemed to heighten all my senses. Then all of a sudden four tunnels appeared in front, behind and to the sides of me, these tunnels had light at the ends of them. The two beings were conveying to me that I had a choice to take any path I wanted and that I had to go.

I looked around in all directions and then looked back to the left of me; I came to on the couch in the family's house that we were at. The wife of the man whose car my dad was working on was home at the time all this happened. She worked as a nurse and performed CPR on me. They said I had no pulse for around twenty minutes. My family took me to our doctor because we couldn't afford the hospital. He told my folks I seemed to be okay and that I would probably have lung problems the rest of my life. He also did some other test that I didn't know what they were. That was February 28, 1968. It's the after effects of the experience that I have the most trouble with and nobody to talk to about it at that time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  2/28/1968

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Carbon Monoxide Poisoning  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Carbon monoxide poisoning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When the two beings of light appeared to me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the two beings of light appeared to me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see auras around everything and seemed to be able to see through all there was around me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Everything was and still is heightened. I am sensitive to light and sound, and emotions.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When I went through the tunnel it was very fast. All I remember was the light that was pulling me to it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was two shimmering light beings with me the entire time. I felt they had known me forever. Our conversation was endless.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was encompassing and with the feeling of love I have never felt on earth ever.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Crystal cities and there rooms

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pure love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     The biggest problem with the world today is RELIGION!! Because it creates separation. WE ARE ONE.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   We are all one

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     The biggest problem with the world today is RELIGION!! Because it creates separation. WE ARE ONE.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was six at the time of my experience, Answers do seem come to me of things I have never studied and the same goes for esoteric knowledge. It can be very crazy at times where this stuff comes from. I do remember going to the city of knowledge, and knowing all. They did say I would not remember all of this.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   At the time it happened I was six years old and hard to describe adequately with my vocabulary then. But now it's not, it's fairly easy.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Medium/psychic, Auger I help those who are stuck here cross over. I was given the ability to heal right after my experience. I do work as a professional medium and healer.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of them.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right after my experience I told everybody! Then I learned to be quiet. You can only take so much teasing as a kid, I was told to stop lying when I was young.  From 1999 to present, I have been sharing my experience and participating in questionnaires with Dr Bruce Greyson, Carlson Professor of Psychiatry and Neurobehavioral Sciences Director, Division of Perceptual Studies, University of Virginia Health Studies. And have done local television and radio programs concerning NDEs and psychic phenomenon.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Could not stop thinking about it and still do. We do not ever die as a spirit, ever!!!!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Ever expanding it's more real today than then. I have understanding.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Shamanic journeying.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Life is a gift and we are heroes for being here.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1randall_s_nde.html