{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V16 1901","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v16_1901.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V16 1901","mylang":"de"}
(0(1
PROCEEDINGS
i $6 s
OF THE f'\(
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
v *
VOLUME XVI.
(CONTAINING PART XLI.)
1901.
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely icith their authors.
Londov :
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER and CO., Limitrd,
CHARING CROSS ROAD, W.C.
1901.
[The Rightt of Translation and Reproduction are reserved.]
h 1
CONTENTS.
PARK
PART XLI.
A Further Record of Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena.
By Professor James Hervev Hvsi.of, Ph.D.
TtMe of Contentt ......... 1
Chapter I. Introduction ....... 4
Chapter If. General Account of the Facts .... 20
Chapter III. The Telepathic Hypothesis 124
Chapter TV. The Spiritistic Hypothesis 153
Chapter V. Difficulties and Objections .... 242
Chapter VI. Conclusion 280
Preliminary Note to Appendices ..... 297
Appendix I. Detailed Record of Sittings . . . '.MA
Appendix II. Record of Sittings, continued . 3l,7
Appendix III. Record of Sittings, concluded . . .417
Appendix IV. Experiments on the Identification of
Personality ..... 537
Appendix V. Experiments in Communication through
a Tube C24
Appendix VI. Experiments in Hypnosis 635
Appendix VII. Quotations bearing on the Mental Condi
tion of the Communicator while
Communicating .... (i41?
ERHATA.
pp. 618, 619, 620, 621, 622, and 623—for "Miss C." read "Miss B."
p. 621, line 45—for "Miss G." read "Miss B."
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
PART XLI.
A FURTHER RECORD OF OBSERVATIONS OF CERTAIN
TRANCE PHENOMENA.
By James Hervev Hysi.op, Ph.]).
(Professor of Logic dud Ethics in Columbia University, New York.)
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Chapter I.—Introduction, pp. 4-19;
Hypothesis of fraud, pp. 5-9 ; Conditions and precautions in arranging the
experiments, pp. 10-13 ; Description of the mode of experimenting and
making the record, pp. 13-15; Explanation of the general discussion,
pp. 15-17 ; Explanation of the contents of the Report, pp. 17-19.
Chapter II.—Generai. Account of the Facts, pp. 20-123 ;
Preliminary remarks, pp. 20-21 ; Analysis of the first sitting, pp. 21-26 ;
Summary of communicators' statements, pp. 2(i-115 ; (1) Robert Hyslop,
pp: 28-85; Recapitulation of same, pp. 85-90 ; James Carruthers, pp.90-94;
Recapitulation of same, pp. 94-95 ; Robert McClellan, pp. 95-99 ; Re
capitulation of same, pp.99-100 ; Charles Hyslop, pp. 100-104 ; Recapitulation
of same, pp. 104-105; Annie Hyslop, pp. 105-108; Recapitulation of same,
p. 108 ; James McClellan, pp. 108-111 ; Recapitulation of same, p. Ill y
John McClellan, pp. 111-113 ; Statistical summary, pp. 115-123.
it
-2 [part
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Chapter III.- The Tei.epathic Hvpothesis, pp. 124-157 ;
Definition of telepathy and explanation of the problem, pp. 124—128 ; General
conditions to be met by telepathy, pp. 127131 ; Classification of incidents
bearing upon the hypothesis of telepathy, pp. 131-133 ; Limitations of tele
pathy as a scientific hypothesis, pp. 133-137 : Special arguments against
telepathy, pp. 137-157 ; (1) Selectiveness of the process, pp. 137-139 ; (2)
Magnitude of its application to all living consciousness and memory, pp.
139-142 ; (3) Inconsistency of its mistakes and confusion with the assump
tion of its easy access to all living memories, pp. 142-14b' ; (4) Differences
in clearness of the communicators, pp. 14(i-147 ; (5) Inconstancy of the
communications and changes of communicators, pp. 147-149 ; (6) Incon
sistencies in its assumptions, pp. 149-150; (7) Variations of the point de
repire, pp. 150-151 ; (8) Reproduction of what would be expected on the
spiritistic theory, pp. 151-152 ; (9) Necessity of combining various other
processes and assumptions with telepathy, pp. 152-154 ; General difficulties,
illustrations, and summary, pp. 154-157.
Chapter IV.—The Spiritistic Hvpothesis, pp. 158-241 ;
The unity of consciousness in the communications, pp. 158-176; The general
unity of the phenomena, pp. 160-170 ; Synthetic unity of individual inci
dents, pp. 170-176 ; The dramatic play of personality, pp. 176-214 ; Nature
of the argument from dramatic play, pp. 17(i-177 ; The place of the trance
personalities in this play, pp. 177-182 ; Analysis of the dramatic play in
the first sitting, pp. 184-190 ; Illustrations of dramatic play in the later
sittings, pp. 190-211 ; Summary of George Pelham's interruptions, pp.
211-213 ; Argument from confusion and error, pp. 214-238 ; Relation of
mistake and confusion to telepathy and other assumptions, pp. 214-221 ;
Illustrations, pp. 221-238 ; Automatisms, pp. 238-241.
Chapter V. —Difficui.ties and Objections, pp. 242-288;
General nature of the difficulties, pp. 242-244 ; Objection from the nature of
"proof," pp. 244-247; Influence of suggestion, pp. 247-248; Objection
from the triviality of the messages, pp. 248-250 ; Clairvoyance and tele
pathy at a distance, pp. 250-256 ; Objection from the limitation of com
municators to friends and relatives, pp. 256-258 ; The conditions of existence
after death, pp. 258-262 ; The identity and independent personality of
Imperator and Rector, pp. 262-268 ; The combination of telepathy and
secondary personality, pp. 268-273 ; Unity of the Phinuit and Imperator
reyimes, pp. 273-280 ; Relation of secondary personality to the spiritistic
theory, pp. 280-285 ; Objection from the alleged mental degeneration of
spirits, pp. 285-288.
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 3
Chapter VI.—Conci.usion, pp. 289- 296 ;
Reasons for scepticism, pp. 289-2W ; Magnitude of the theories alternative
to spiritism, p. 290-292 ; Contradictions and weaknesses of the telepathic
hypothesis, pp. 292 -294 ; Tentative character of the conclusion, pp. 294-296.
APPENDICES AND NOTES, pp. 297-645.
Appendix I.—Detailed record of first four persona] sittings, pp. 297-344.
Latest Notes to Appendix I., pp. 344-366.
Appendix II.—Detailed record of Dr. Hodgson's five sittings in my
behalf, pp. 367-407.
Latest notes to Appendix II., pp. 408-416.
Appendix III. —Detailed record of last eight personal sittings, pp. 417 536.
Litest notes to Appendix III., pp. 497-536.
Appendix IV. —Experiments on the Identification of Personality, pp.
537-623.
Appendix V.—Experiments on Communication through a Tube, pp.624-634.
Appendix VI.—Experiments in Hypnosis, pp. 635-642.
Appendix VII.—Quotations bearing on the Mental Condition of the Com
municator while Communicating, pp. 643 -645.
4 [l'AKT
J. H. Hi!slop, Ph.J).
A FURTHER RECORD OF OBSERVATION'S OF CERTAIN
TRANCE PHENOMENA.
Bv Professor James H. Hysi.op.
(This paper is a sequel to those in Proceed) ihjh, Vol. VI., pp.
436-659 ; Vol. VIII., pp. 1-167 ; Vol. XIIL, pp. 284-JW2; Vol. XIV.,
pp. 6-78.)
CHAPTER r.
Introduction.i
The problem which presents itself in the present record of experi
ments with Mrs. Piper is simply that of personal identity, and not any
of the larger claims of the doctrine of "spiritualism." Both the
question of the supernormal and that of general "spiritualism" are
thrown out of court, the one on the ground that it has to be assumed
to escape the other, and the second on the ground that its wider
i It seems to mo desirable to warn American, and perhaps some English, readers
against a misapprehension of the pretensions in this report. I presented some of the
facts of this report last spring (June 4th, 1899) before the Cambridge Conferences
(Massachusetts, U.S.A.)- Though 1 was extremely careful in that address not to
make any final choice, any more than I do now, between the alternative theories
which I stated, the facts aroused the usual newspaper interest. I was interviewed
by reporters to whom I absolutely refused to tell my facts or any settled opinions.
But it was immediately published and quoted in the newspapers all over the United
States, and in some parts of the United Kingdom, that I proposed to "scientifically
demonstrate the immortality of the soul within a year." There is no foundation for
the attribution of such a claim to myself. The facts are these : I was seen by only
fonr or five reporters. I refused absolutely to tell them a single fact in my sittings,
but referred them to previous Reports and talked only of the frauds and illusions
connected with the subject. In response to the question whether I proposed to
scientifically demonstrate immortality, I was extremely careful to say, "No, I do
not," and stated the alternative theories between which we have to choose. I knew
too well the a priori, standards which characterise the conceptions of those who think
they know what a " scientific demonstration n is, and not only did not claim any such
t-mciency for my facts, but was emphatic in disclaiming any such pretensions. But
knowing what impressions widely-circulated statements produce, and that even men
who claim to possess scientific intelligence either accept newspaper reports as true or
snatch a£ them for the sake of using a standard for heaping ridicule upon those
against whom they have no facts to produce, I. have also been careful to statu to the
scientific public in two of its most important publications in America (Science,
November 10th, 1899, Vol. X., p. 695 ; The Ptpcholopical Berietr, January, 1900,
Vol. VII., p. 84) just what I have indicated above. I make no claims to "scien
tifically demonstrating" anything, not even my facts. I have given a preference for
the spiritistic theory in explanation of my alleged facts, in ordei to force the issue on
an important investigation and in order to devolve upon those who have not accepted
any supernormal phenomena at all the dutv of rescuing me from illusion.
J. H. Hvslop.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena, 5
aspects arc not a part of the problem at issue in these experiments.
What '■ spiritualism " is in its general aspects I need not care, as there
are not data in my record to throw any light upon its complexities as
usually conceived. The issue that is presented here is simply whether
spiritism or telepathy from living persons exclusivelyi, is the more
rational hypothesis to account for the facts. Nor need I enter into
any specific definition as to what shall be meant by spiritism. It is
first only a name for some other hypothesis than telepathy and intended
to account for the unity and intelligence of the phenomena concerned.
It is next only a name for the continuity of the stream of conscious
ness which once passed for a person. Consequently I use the term
consistently with either pantheistic monism, or atomistic or monadic
monism. Whatever theory we entertain regarding the individuality of
man, the alternative hypothesis to telepathy, which is here called
spiritism, must be independent of the question whether the stream of
consciousness recognised as personal identity shall be either a mode of
the absolute or an individual persistent centre of its own activity.
Consequently, I shall have in mind, when using the term, the concep
tion of a surviving consciousness and personal identity which is
absolutelv necessary for . the establishment of anything like a true
spiritism, and thus whollv eliminate all conceptions that are associated
with the idea of phenomena originating from some cause merely
different from the normal and voluntary self. The latter idea
jroes no further than secondary personality, as it is so well known.
The former excludes all intrinsic connection between the subject
through which the phenomena are apparently obtained and that which
is their alleged source. Whether the real source is a surviving soul or
not may be discussed without any preconceived theory of what a soul
must be. Spiritism, therefore, as an alternative explanation to
telepathy, is nothing more than the question whether the brain of the
medium is adequate to account for the facts. All other problems may
be postponed until we know more than we do now regarding such
phenomena.
In fixing these alternatives, however, 1 am told that I should
include the possibility of fraud, which is simpler than either of the
others. My reply is that I shall not discuss that hypothesis at
length. I consider it as having been excluded from view as much
as ten years ago, a'ld no'one except those who have resolutely remained
ignorant of the Society's work in general, and who have not taken
the pains to acquaint themselves with the very special precautions
in regard to this matter in the Piper case, would compromise his
i I shall throughout this Report use the term "telepathy" to denote a process
between living persons only. (See footnote, p. 124.)
b [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
intelligence with that accusation without giving specific proofs of it.
For the special benefit of that class, 1 shall refer it to the record which
shows what means were taken to eliminate this resource for explana
tion. (Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 437-440, 444-447, 558-560, 615 ;
et al. Vol. VIII., pp. 1-9 ; Vol. XIII., pp. 284-5, and Vol. XIV.,
pp. 7 and 50-78.) Nor is it necessary to resent any insinuations that
we are duped, until those who are possessed of so much intelligence
without any previous study of this special instance can produce specific
evidence that the subject of our investigation exhibits the qualities and
engages in the kind of work that must be supposed in order to meet the
case. It is easy to say "fraud " and suggest any number of imaginable
methods of deception, as it is known and practised in most that passes
for spiritualism. But it is quite a different thing to indicate the exact
kind of " fraud " necessary to reduce the character of a given case.
Those who are at all acquainted with the conditions and nature of the
Piper phenomena, and who are not willing to excuse their indolence by
an appeal to an explanation for which they have no evidence, will very
quickly discover that there is only one kind of fraud even conceivable
in the case, and that is the employment of detectives for obtaining infor
mation. This method will undoubtedly account for the cases with
which the public is usually entertained, but any attempt to applv it to
the present instance in detail, taking adequate consideration of the
content of it, will be confronted with assumptions that are about as
enormous as the spiritistic theory itself. I am not questioning the
value of scepticism in this direction, but only insisting that it lx>
intelligent and ready to accept the logical consequences of the supposi
tion that it makes. The accuser does not stop to think of the
magnitude of his hypothesis when applied to both the quality and
quantity of the facts under the conditions involved.
Hut it is not this alone that eviscerates that suspicion of its perti
nence. We might well admit that both quality and quantity would be
vitiated by the existence of detective fraud, if that suspicion could be
legitimatelv directed against the subject of our experiments. But in
spite of the care with which the Society's publications have stated the
conditions under which all arrangements are made for experiments,
exempting Mrs. Piper from all responsibility for security against sus
picion, not even the scientific public has yet been intelligent enough
to discover that it is on an entirely wrong scent. It ought to be
clear to even the most dull person, who must bear the suspicion of
fraud, when Dr. Hodgson interposes between the experimenter and
Mrs. Piper, and when he, with the rest of us, subordinates the
evidential value of any experiments otherwise conducted. The situation
is such, as the most cursory examination shows, that the notion of
fraud cannot be entertained without implying the complicity of Dr.
XLL] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 7
Hodgson. Now Dr. Hodgson is not under the slightest obligation to
prove his own honesty, or that he is not a fraud himself. Hence it is
the duty of the sceptic to prove that there is collusion and dishonesty
on Dr. Hodgson's part when any charge is made against Mrs. Piper.
Members of the Society assumed the duty to examine into her relation
to the phenomena, and having satisfied themselves of her innocence. Dr.
Hodgson has chosen to shelter her behind his own responsibility, so that
the man who wishes to cliny to the suspicion of fraud must accept without
wincing this responsibility for proving his suspicion. The time is past
when we can indulge in the cheap accusation against Mrs. Piper, which
tries to throw the burden of proof upon us who announce the value of
our results. But when it is Dr. Hodgson who is the starting point of
the experiments, critics must accept the challenge to investigate him, or
turn their objections to his conclusions in another direction. They
cannot stand idly by and demand proof for honesty when it is their
duty to prove dishonesty. If we were dealing only with Mrs. Piper,
the case might be different, but, as it is, we can safely leave to critics to
make good against Dr. Hodgson the alternative to the hypotheses of
telepathy and spiritism.
In regard to Dr. Hodgson's relation to the sittings generallv, it will
be important for the reader to know that he is not always present at
the sittings that he has arranged for, and that some of the best com
munications have come to persons who, at the former period when the
control of Mrs. Piper was not stringent, arranged for themselves and
went to her without the knowledge of Dr. Hodgson at all, and reported
to him afterward (Of. Professor Nichols' case, Proceedings, Vol. XII] .
pp. 374 and 534). At present, in spite of his control of all arrange
ments for sittings, he is often absent from whole series of them, and
the fact makes no difference in the content of the communications. In
mine I insisted on his presence, because I was not familiar with the
automatic writing and did not wish to waste time in learning to read
it. Dr. Hodgson acted as stenographer, so to speak, copying at the
time much of the automatic writing, and noting all that was said, or
flone by both of us and by Mrs. Piper's hand. Any attempt on my
part to do this without experience would have resulted in much loss of
time and increase of confusion in the "communications," owing to the
necessity of repeating until I could decipher the writing. But even
then Dr. Hodgson was several times sent out of the room by the trance
personalities, and his absence showed no effect on the contents of the
" communications," except perhaps to improve that feature of them
affecting their relevance, though it took more time for me to read
the writing and to obtain a given quantity of material. For
the occasions on which Dr. Hodgson was sent out of the room
and was not present the reader can consult the following references
./. //. Hyslop, Ph.D. [part
to the Appendices and detailed records. (Appendix I., pp. 1$05-306,
306-308, 309-310. All the lx?st part of this sitting, in so far
as content is concerned, came while Dr. . Hodgson was out of the
room. Appendix III., pp. 420-421). The reader can see for himself
that in all the instances the " communications " were not interrupted
either in manner or matter, except so far as I was the cause and so far
as supersensible causes are assumed, so that no affirmation of their
entire dependence upon his presence can be made. This is, of course,
far truer of others than myself, as he was so often not present even in
the house, and the sitter was unknown to Mrs. Piper.
Nor is this all, taking the whole case into account. Professor
William Jame-s, of Harvard University, exercised more or less super
vision over Mrs. Piper's trances and introduced unknown sitters as
earlv as 1885, two years before Dr. Hodgson ever saw the shores of
America. And, in fact, it was Professor James that made the appoint
ment for Dr. Hodgson's own first sitting. Professor James says of
this year, 1885, "I visited her (Mrs. Piper) a dozen times that winter,
sometimes alone, sometimes with my wife, once in company with the
Rev. M. J. Savage. I sent a large number of persons to her, wishing
to get the results of as many first sittings as possible. I made appoint
ments myself for most of these people, whose names were in no instance
announced to the medium." (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 652.) A favour
able report of these experiments by Professor James was published in
the spring of 1886 (Proceedings of the American S.P.R. pp. 102-
106) one year before Dr. Hodgson came to this country.
Further, Mrs. Piper saw a large number of sitters during her visit
to England in 1889-90, while Professor James and Dr. Hodgson were
both in this country, and several English gentlemen were responsible
for the appointments there, especially Professor Oliver J. Lodge,
F.R.S., Dr. Walter Leaf, and Mr. F. W. H. Myers. (Proceedings,
Vol. VI., pp. 436-447, 558-568).
All this implies that we cannot assume fraud without supposing
that there has been a conspiracy of it in the Piper case, involving not
only the above-named persons, but also many others that could as
easily be mentioned. This insinuation must be made good by any
man who suggests the possibility of fraud on the part of anyone con
nected with the case. I am myself not exempt from this accusation if
a man chooses to make it, and one of my "scientific" colleagues
frankly says that he reserves the right to believe, and that he would
believe, as an alternative to fraud by Mrs. Piper, that I have lied
about the facts. I am not competent to disprove such a theory, but I
have shaped this report with the distinct purpose of inviting this
charge. Nor does all this imply that I admit the possibility of fraud
on the part of any of the persons named. On the contrary, I do not
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 9
admit that any such thing is possible in the case, because I consider that
it. was thrmvn out of court as much as ten years ago for nil intelligent
men. But I allude to it here, first, to show that I have been alert to
all the issues likely to be raised in this problem, and, second—accept
ing a man's right to raise the question where his conviction is involved
—to emphasize the fact that the present situation devolves upon him
who entertains such a hypothesis the duty to furnish specific and
adequate evidence for it. Professor James says on this point (Psycho
logical Review, Vol. V., p. 421) : "The 'scientist,' who is confident of
' fraud ' here, must remember that in science, as much as in common
life, a hypothesis must receive some positive specification and determi
nation before it can be profitably discussed ; and a fraud which is no
assigned kind of fraud, but simply ' fraud ' at large, fraud in abstracto,
can hardly be regarded as a specifically scientific explanation of
specific concrete facts."
In addition to this, when it comes to accusing Mrs. Piper of fraud
without specific proofs, Professor James also says in the same refer
ence : " Dr. Hodgson considers that the hypothesis of fraud cannot be
seriously entertained. I agree with him absolutely. The medium has
been under observation, much of the time under close observation, as
to most of the conditions of her life, by a large number of persons,
oager many of them to pounce upon any suspicious circumstance for
fifteen years. During that time not only has there, not been one single
suspicious circumstance, remarked, but not, one suggestion has ever been
madefrom any quarter which might tend positively to explain how the
medium, living the apparent life she leads, could possibly collect infor
mation about so many sitters by natural means." (Cf. Professor
Xewbold, Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 7, and Mr. Andrew Lang,
VoL XV., p. 45.)
This statement of the situation will make clear why I absolutely
refuse to discuss the theory of fraud. I say only so much as will force
the public to face the issue and to understand why I accept no obliga
tions whatever to treat the suspicion of fraud seriously. If the reader
of this report will take the pains, he will discover that the care which
I observed to keep all knowledge of my sittings out of the acquaintance
of every one except Dr. Hodgson alone was undertaken distinctly with
the purpose of showing clearly that every accusation or suspicion of
fraud must accept the implied complicity of Dr. Hodgson, and make
this good, or treat the problem of these experiments with proper
respect. I also ignore the question regarding the genuineness of the
trance, as that has been adequately attested by the proper persons,
though I was careful to satisfy myself of this fact, not from any
scepticism on that point, but because my duty as an observer required
that I be able to give a reason for the belief. I can also say that
10 [PAKT
J. H. Hyslop. Fh.D.
whatever suspicions existed in the Phinuiti days regarding this question,
they are no longer applicable to the condition which I observed. I am
willing to add also that, assuming that fraud is eliminated from Mrs.
Piper's part in the acquisition of the facts in the record, I should not
find it necessary to lav much stress upon the genuineness of the trance,
as even the supraliminal communication of such facts as I have in my
record would not lose in spiritistic suggestiveness by that circumstance.
The only value in establishing the genuineness of the trance after
removing the supposition of fraud is the fact that we simply make it
more difficult for the common mind to explain the incidents on any
normal grounds. This advantage, however, is more than offset by the
fact that the genuineness of the trance opens the door wide to all the
possibilities of the subliminal, which may include unconscious fraud to
any extent without implicating the primary personality in any
responsibility whatever for it. Consequently I do not treat the
issue of the trance as the most important one, or as in any way crucial,
but us valuable only in limiting the number of factors to be considered
in the problem. The only reason for investigating the trance at all, in
this or other cases, is that it was alleged and the test of honesty partly
depends on it ; but where no pretence of a trance is made, there is no
reason for demanding that it shall occur, unless we find that it is
actually necessary for desired results. The question of fraud is prior
to this in its importance, and having shown adequate reasons for
dismissing it from consideration, I pass directly to the main problem.
It will be necessary to explain briefly the conditions under which
the experiments were performed, as this will serve the double purpose
of making the results more intelligible to the reader who cannot witness
the performance and of indicating the precautions taken, which will
dispose of ordinary objections and show the proper incidence of respon
sibility for the value of the record. The arrangements for my sittings
were made only through Dr. Hodgson, and with special care regarding
secrecy. The following statements will make the whole case clear.
(1) No one except Dr. Hodgson and my wife was to know that I
was to have sittings, and only Dr. Hodgson was to know of
the arrangements. This plan was carried out in entire
secrecy.
(2) The arrangements for the sittings were not made with Mrs.
Piper in her normal state, but with the trance personalities
in her trance state.
(3) The arrangements for my sittings were not made in my name,
i Until the beginning of 1 i7 Mrs. Piper's chief trance personality, so to speak,
was known under the name of Phinuit. See ProctediniJn, Vol. VI., pp. 440, 448-450,
ei al. ; Vol. VIII., pp. 50-54 it al.
xi.i.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. II
but in the pseudonym of " Four times friend," so that neither
the supraliminal nor the subliminal of Mrs. Piper could have
any clue to my identity (see Note 1, p. 344).
(4) When I went to conduct the experiments and before reaching
the house of II rs. Piper, about two hundred feet from the
house and while in a closed coach, I put on a mask covering
the whole of my face, and entered the house wearing the
mask, met Mrs. Piper, and went on with the sitting in this
condition.
(5) When introduced to Mrs. Piper it was under the name of Mr.
Smith, which is the usual name by which Dr. Hodgson intro
duces strangers. I bowed to her without uttering a sound, the
object being to conceal my voice equally as well as my face.
(6) In the whole series of my sittings Mrs. Piper never heard my
voice in her normal state, except twice when I changed it
into an unnatural tone to utter a sentence, in one case only
four words, as explained in my notes.
(7) In the whole course of the sittings, also, I was careful not to
touch Mrs. Piper, and I never came into any contact with her
to render any muscular suggestion possible, except perhaps
half-a-dozen times when I seized the hand while writing to
place it on the writing-pad which it was escaping. Once, as in
dicated in the notes, I held her head while she was straightened
in the chair in which she was sitting (p. 467). But at all
other times I avoided every form of contact that could even
make muscular suggestion conceivable.
(8) The record shows that the facts obtained were either without
any questions at all, or without questions calculated to suggest
the answers given. I was extremely careful to avoid verbal
suggestion. I have tried to draw attention to any special
exceptions.
(9) During the writing I stood behind and to the right of Mrs.
Piper, in a position which concealed any view of me and my
movements absolutely from any visual knowledge of Mrs.
Piper, whether supraliminal or subliminal, even had her eyes
been open instead of closed in the trance. It was necessary
to take this position in order to be able to read the writing
as it went on.
. The fourth, fifth, and sixth precautions were taken, because in
1892 I met Mrs. Piper twice for a short time and had a portion
of a sitting (see p. 297). I had been brought into the room
and introduced to her under a false name while she was in the
trance, but introduced to her after recovery from it under my
12 [part
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
right name. Hence the mask and concealment of my voice were
measures against any possible identification, but were taken much
more because I wished to be able to say so than hecause I felt any
imperative necessity for doing it after my study of the case. The mask
I kept on until the third sitting, when I felt it unnecessary to wear it
any longer, for the reason that at the end of the second sitting the
name and relationship of my father was given as Mrs. Piper came out
of the trance. I had to assume from that point that her subliminal
was aware of who I was, and further concealment from it was no longer
necessary. But I still preserved my precautions against any identifica
tion by voice and muscular suggestion. I could rather safely rely upon
the fact that the lapse of six years and that I was now wearing a
beard would prevent visual identification, because I had a smooth face
in 1892 when I sat. I can attach no special value to the concealment
of my voice in the case after removing the mask, except as an indica
tion of the general cautiousness with which I wished to conduct the
experiments. In spite of the assumption, however, that Mrs. Piper's
subliminal had gotten my name, I have no doubt that her normal state
never obtained any knowledge of my identity until after the news
papers had published what I had been doing, and this was after the
close of my sittings. She displayed absolutely no curiosity regarding
me during the sittings, not even noticing me after the introduction on
the first morning, and only the necessity of assuming that her sub
liminal knew my identity made further wearing of the mask useless for
evidential purposes.
As regards the seventh, eighth, and ninth statements, one of the
objects in my experiments was to test the influence of suggestion
by the sitters. I had felt myself so hard pushed for arguments
against the spiritistic theory that I tolerated in myself and others
the appeal to illusions of interpretation and suggestion, as a resource
against conviction until I could witness the phenomena at close
hand. In reading the Reports I feared that possibly some inci
dents, or even a large number of them, quoted as evidence of spirit
communication, might have their force impaired by this suspicion.
My view at that time was based to some extent upon preconceptions
formed by my idea of earlier sittings with Mrs. Piper and imperfections
of the record. But both more careful reading and personal inquiry
showed that my preconceptions of imperfection were grossly exag
gerated, and that my doubts had to rest upon another basis altogether,
namely, the confusions and errors. But, nevertheless, I wished to
study the phenomena at close range, and the result of the sittings was
to convince me that the hypothesis of suggestion was inadequate. I
have tried by the fulness of the present record to give all others the
same opportunity as mvself to understand this feature of the problem.
xu.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena.
It is not so easy to eliminate illusions of interpretation. We are
never free from their possibility until we secure such definiteness in
the facts that even a prejudiced reader cannot mistake their pertinence.
Even in my first sitting some of the facts stated were specific enough
for me to decide at once the question of .their pertinence or impertinence,
and hence illusions of interpretation had their limits fairly well defined,
to say nothing of the mass of material in later sittings.
As this report will probably be read by some who are not familiar
with either the whole record of the case or the difference between Mrs.
Piper's mediumship and the modics operandi of other alleged ''mediums,"
I shall briefly characterise the conditions under which the results are
obtained, so that there shall be absolutely no excuse for the reader to
study the present account with any erroneous preconceptions of what
is meant by Mrs. Piper's mediumistic performances. The first important
step in the study of her case is a definite conception of the exact way
the facts are secured, and a recognition of points of important
dift'erence between this case and those which have determined the
popular idea of mediumship.
(1) Mrs. Piper goes into the trance in the following manner. She
seats herself in a chair in front of a table, upon which are
placed two pillows for a head-rest when the trance comes on.
She mav or may not engage in conversation while the trance
approaches. In my case she general!y talked to Dr. Hodgson
about various domestic matters, the weather, etc. The
approach of the trance is characterised by various indications
as described in my notes at the beginning of each sitting.
Finally when the head falls upon the pillows, it is arranged
by Dr. Hodgson, or other sitter, so that the right side of the
head lies on the palm of the left hand and looking oft' and
away from the table upon which the writing is done. This
second table is at the right hand, and upon it is placed the
writing pad. In a few minutes after the trance occurs, the
right hand shows signs of animation and slowlv moves toward
this table for the writing, when a pencil is placed between
the two fore-fingers and the writing begins.
(2) Mrs. Piper's normal consciousness, as the past evidence goes to
show, knows nothing of what she has done or communicated
in the trance. She also remains ignorant of the communica-
cations until they are published in some form, except, of
course, when a sitter chooses to tell her something, which I
need hardly say in my case was nothing. Hence we do not
have to reckon with anv views of Mrs. Piper's in estimating
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D. [part
the nature and value of the results, so that the facts have to
be studied from the standpoint of the sitter or investigator.
(3) There is no mechanical apparatus whatsoever in the experi
ments, except the writing-pad and pencil which you furnish
yourself. Hence there is no excuse for comparing the case to
slate-writing and cabinet performances generally. Absolutelv
nothing of this sort is connected with the sittings and experi
ments. They are conducted in open daylight, in a room
without any special arrangements for them, except the
tables as indicated, and this room, in so far as living persons
are concerned, might be any one that the sceptical inquirer
might wish to choose in any locality whatsoever, and not
confined to Mrs. Piper's home.
(4) In all cases of so-called independent slate-writing, that 1
ever witnessed (which were clearly fraudulent), I was either
in the darkness or the phenomena were produced out of
my sight ; the slate-writing was done nominally by a spirit
directly and not by the hand of the "medium," and I
was not an eye-witness of the writing. But in Mrs. Piper's
case, in addition to the daylight and absence of mechanical
apparatus like slates or cabinets, the writing is done visibly
with her own hand, and on paper and with a pencil of your
own furnishing. That is to say, we can actually see as
much of the modus operandi of the " communications " as
we can see of any normal human act. Nothing is concealed
from our view, except the physiological processes that are
equally concealed from us in our own writing as well as all
other human affairs.
(5) The whole scientific and evidential importance of the results
thus gets its credentials and value solely from the content of
the " communications," and not in any special way from the
manner of obtaining them, except as detective frauds are
excluded from the matter.
(6) I should also indicate briefly the manner of making the record.
Dr. Hodgson sat near the table on my right where he could
see the writing as it proceeded. This he copied, reading it in
a low voice as an indication to the trance personality that it
was intelligible, or sometimes with a tone of interrogation and
doubt which would be followed either by the word "Yes "
sometimes written out, or assent by the hand, or by the repe
tition of a word or phrase not rightly read at first.i He was
i After I became more familiar with the writing I often made attempts to read
aloud portions of it instead of Dr. Hodgson.
xLi.] Observationa of Certain Trance Phenomena. 15
unable to copy the whole of the automatic writing at the time,
as it was necessary for him to record his own or my questions
and statements made at the time and to describe certain
mechanical features of the process not expressed in the writing,
leaving room for the insertion of the omitted portions of the
writing afterward. When a question was to be asked or a
statement made to the " communicator," Mrs. Piper's hand
was spontaneously raised toward the mouth of the sitter who
addressed the hand, and it then immediately proceeded either
to present the message to the " communicator," often extend
ing itself out toward some " invisible presence," or to write out
a reply. After the sitting was over, usually in the afternoon
of the same day, Dr. Hodgson and myself went over the record
together, completing the copy of the automatic writing. From
this record type-written copies were made and sent to the
printer. The printed proofs have been compared first with
Dr. Hodgson's copy, and then, once more with the original
automatic writing, so as to secure the utmost possible
accuracy.
These facts will leave no excuse for any further misunderstanding
of the Piper phenomena, and ought to remove such misconceptions
of them as have been derived from the popular notion concerning
mediumship.
There is one other feature of the sittings which it is necessary to
describe in order to obtain a clear idea of their complexity outside our
positive knowledge. I have described above what we actually know
about the modus operandi of the case. But beyond this there appears
to be a consistent rigime in the process, for whose validity no one can
vouch until the spiritistic theory is sufficiently proved to make it
inherently probable. This rigime is the action of the "controls," and
the little alleged coterie of spirits that are trying to communicate from a
discarnate world with the incarnate. We can describe this appearance
without vouching for its reality. But there appear to be several
persons or spirits having Mrs. Piper in charge for the same purpose
that animates our experiments. The chief of these are called by them
selves " Imperator " and " Rector," and are assisted sometimes appa
rently by George Pelham and two or three others (Cf. Proceedingt,
Vol. XIII. pp. 407-412). Rector usually acts as amanuensis in the
writing. George Pelham acted as chief amanuensis at my first sitting.
Imperator seldom writes with Mrs. Piper's hand, but generally employs
Rector through whom to communicate. Usually also the communi
cations that purport to come from other discarnate spirits are made
through the amanuensis, or even through one or more other " spirits "
16 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
before the amanuensis obtains them for writing. All this, however, can
only be a help to the imagination in understanding the dramatic play
of personality in the record, and hence can have no direct value in the
estimation of the facts in relation to the problems of personal identity.
In describing the details of my sittings it seems to me admissible
to use the language conforming to the spiritistic hypothesis, and this
entirely independent of our final interpretation. The main justification
for this course lies in the fact that it is under the form of spiritistic
communication that the phenomena occur, and we should state the
case in terms of its own purport. Notwithstanding this, however, I
might have dealt with the facts in detail by adopting the hypothesis
of a secondary personality of Mrs. Piper, masquerading as " spirits,"
and fishing and guessing and filching telepathieally from the minds of
myself and other persons the necessary data for this purpose. But
this hypothesis has not appeared to me at all probable as a satisfactorv
explanation of the phenomena before us, especially as I neither see
the a priori necessity for assuming it nor admit the adequacy of the
empirical evidence apart from this case for its application and extension
to the degree required. I have been driven to the favorable considera
tion of the spiritistic hypothesis, and instead of evading it as long as
possible throughout my report and resorting in a pedantic way to
circumlocutions for the purpose of preserving the impression of
cautiousness which I tried to maintain in forming my convictions,
I have decided to treat the sittings in general from the point of view
which I finally reached. But I intend to apply the spiritistic theory
throughout, not merelv because it recommends itself to me as the best
one, but also because it seems to me of more importance to see how far
the application of this conception would throw light on the numerous
details to which many persons might be inclined to apply such
hypotheses as fishing and guessing on the part of the supposed
subliminal of Mrs. Piper. After all, however, I do not wish the
reader to lose sight of the fact that the consideration essential for him
to note is rather the possibility of the application of the spiritistic
hypothesis as a rational one, a position that I shall reiterate from time
to time in the discussion. lie must not suppose that I am h;\ e offer
ing any demonstrable proof of its necessity for the explanation of my
own sittings. The evidence drawn from those indeed appears to
be objectively inferior in many ways to much that has already been
published in these Proceeditujs, especiallv in Part XXXIII., but in the
previous reports on the Piper case the records have not been dealt
with in detail from the spiritistic point of view, and the reader has
scarcely been able to judge how far that view appears to cover the
various minutias of facts, errors and confusions. Instead, therefore, of
seeking to point out what incidents might be explained on the
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 17
hypothesis of fishing, what on the hypothesis of guessing, what on the
hypothesis of telepathy, ete., I have tried to take the reader behind
the scenes, as it were, and to show what relations the different incidents
may suggest with the habits and experiences of the supposed real com
municators. But while I shall here discuss only the results of my own
series of sittings, let me warn the reader once more that my conclusions
do not depend on those results alone. It is far otherwise. The)' are
the outcome of the study of my own record added to the evidence
offered by Professor James, Professor Lodge, Mr. Walter Leaf, Mr.
Myers, and Dr. Hodgson, superadded to the large number of various
and spontaneous experiences recorded in the volumes of our Proceedings.
The spiritistic hypothesis simply gives unity to a far larger class of
phenomena than that of the Piper records, and this additional class
remains inexplicable by the assumptions which we often indulge in
the Piper case. I offer, therefore, my analysis, not as proof, but as
legitimate interpretation of the record and the results of psychical
research generally. I am willing even to be generous to critics, and
to admit, for the sake of argument, that the spiritistic theory cannot be
proved in the sense that some appear to demand of a demonstration. I
am dealing here only with the probabilities which favour simple as
opposed to complex hypotheses, and hence am testing the consistency
of the former in a case which is but an additional specimen of our
work, and which is not treated as sufficient proof of itself.
In pursuance of the purpose just announced, I shall here enumerate
the communicators by name that figure in my series of sittings. There
is my father, Robert Hyslop, who is the chief communicator throughout
and who died on the 29th of August in 1896. Frequent communicators
were my brother Charles, who died a young boy at four and a half
years in 1864, and my sister Anna, who died at three years of age,
twelve days later. Also in several sittings apparently my uncle,
James B. Carruthers, communicated or made unsuccessful attempts
at times. He died on December 2nd, 1898, from an accident on
the railway. In the five sittings held for me by Dr. Hodgson while
I remained in New York my father was the only communicator, with
the exception that my sister Anna seemed to be present once. In
the next eight sittings, at which I was present myself, my father was
the chief communicator ; but in the course of them, in addition to all
that have been mentioned, my mother, twice by name, Martha Ann
Hyslop, who died in October, 1869, my cousin, Robert II. McClellan,
who died in 1897, and his father, my uncle, James McClellan, who
died about the beginning of 1876, were communicators.
There were no other communicators in my personal sittings except
the trance personalities, with an occasional message from the George
Pelham of Dr. Hodgson's Report, and one from a person whom we call
c
18 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Mr. M. (p. 458) and who is not connected with me at all, but with one
of the other sitters. In Dr. Hodgson's sittings held in my behalf there
were several other communicators, but the communications regard
ing them were not relevant to myself, and some of them were too
private for incorporation. The latter and some of the former are
excluded from the detailed record.
I shall now indicate the general method of procedure which has
been adopted and which is as follows. The Appendices I.-III. contain
complete records with explanatory notes of all the sittings, both those
at which I was personally present and also those which Dr. Hodgson held
in my behalf. Each Appendix is followed by further explanatory notes
embodying the results of later inquiries concerning statements made at
the sittings. Appendices IV. and V. contain accounts of experiments,
imitative in their character and made for the purpose of obtaining
light on certain questions involved in the Piper phenomena. Appendix
IV. deals with two of these questions, namely, the triviality of the
incidents which people naturally choose for the purpose of identi
fication, and the quantity of evidence sufficient to establish the same
result. Appendix V. deals with the mistakes made in the trans
mission of messages through an imperfect channel. Appendix VI. is
an account of a case which I think may serve to illustrate the state of
mind in which I believe the communicators find themselves when in the
act of communicating. Appendix VII. consists of quotations.
In Chapter II. of my Report I give a somewhat detailed account
of the facts in the record, together with such comments by way of
corroboration or otherwise as my latest inquiries enable me to make,
and after dealing with the group of incidents connected with each com
municator in the record, I summarise briefly the results (pp. 28-123).
Hut although this lengthy account of the facts is intended to show the
unity of the case in a way that perhaps many readers of the Appendices
alone would not detect, it is not intended to be a substitute for the
detailed records. It seems to me impossible to obtain a proper concep
tion of the issues involved without a most painstaking stud}- of the
Appendices themselves, containing the detailed records. On this point
I make no concessions to the popular demand for a merely readable story,
but expect from those who claim to be intelligent a minute and patient
study of the phenomena, such as we demand in all scientific and philo
sophic problems. We spend years, even generations, in the critical
study of Plato and Aristotle, Kant and Hegel, etc., and we think
ourselves repaid, though we fail to arrive at any dogmatically definite
conception of their doctrines. And this study is given to them without
regard to the question whether we agree with them or not. It suffices
to understand them. But in no case do we permit a man to approve
or criticise what he has not studied. Again, there is scarcely any limit
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 19
to resources, intellectual and financial, which have been expended in
the most patient study of Darwinism, which involves the gradual
evolution of human life. It ought not to be less legitimate, it ought
not to be less imperative, to study at least as thoroughly those phe
nomena that purport to throw light upon the destiny of that life.
I therefore venture to think that our inquiry has reached such a
stage that no brief summaries of facts or conclusions can at all meet
the importance of the case. The problem is not one which the " man
in the street " who reads as he runs can be expected to solve either for
himself or for others. What the sources are of the statements made
at my sittings and in other analogous ways through other persons is a
question that certainly demands the most searching investigation into
their minutest details. With this in view I gave Dr. Hodgson's Report,
in conjunction with its detailed records, four very careful and critical
readings, yet I found that there were many points which I failed to
appreciate fully until after I had finished and studied my own series of
sittings. Hence I have included in this Report and Appendices an
exceptionally large amount of detail involving description and comment,
with the hope of enabling the reader to realise to some extent the
significance of the sittings, which cannot be appreciated as fully as is
desirable without direct personal experience. Even my own mental
attitude at the time I have endeavoured to show by retaining in the
Appendices all (except three or four not affecting this issue) my original
notes which further investigation has shown to be erroneous, including
illusions of memory and interpretation that occurred to myself, and
especially the changes of opinion which fuller knowledge of the case
or clearer and later communications forced upon me. I have done this
also with a view to certain difficulties connected with the main problem,
as my own mistakes on various points appear to me to suggest a very
significant bearing upon what we should expect to find in the state
ments by the communicators. I do not, of course, repeat these changes
of opinion in my general account of the sittings in Chapter II., except
when reference to them seems necessary to explain the proper signifi
cance of the most important incidents.
So important, therefore, do I regard the detailed records that I
suggest to the student the propriety of turning to them immediately
after reading my general account in Chapter II., and before going on
to my discussion of the case in Chapters III.-IV., where I examine
the application of the telepathic hypothesis (Chapter III.) ; of the
spiritistic theory (Chapter IV.) ; and after considering some special
difficulties that may be entertained in regard to the spiritistic theory
(Chapter V.), I express, in conclusion, my adoption, for the present at
least, of the spiritistic theory as the most satisfactory (Chapter VI.)
I now pass to my general account of the facts.
c 2
20 J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D. [part
CHAPTER II.
Generai. Account of the Facts.i
In summarising the facts in the record, I shall group them, as far
as this is possible, according to their subjects, treating together those
that occur in different sittings but pertain to the same incident. In
this manner we shall better be able to comprehend the collective force
of the evidence as it is represented in complex wholes. The first
sitting, however, I shall treat rather by itself, as it is evidentially
unimportant, and such value as it obtains comes chiefly from the
light that later incidents throw upon it.
Another reason for this isolation of the first sitting from the
summary of the others and for the mode of treating its contents is the
fact that my notes in the Appendices give no adequate account of its
possibilities. Until I had formed a better understanding of the
phenomena generally and of my later sittings in particular, I not only
assumed that this first one was evidentially unfit to interest the reader,
but also that the confusion was so great that I could not make any
use of it except for its dramatic play. In fact I treated it and would
treat it alone as absolutely worthless, and it will doubtless remain so
for the leader. But careful study of all the phenomena convinced
me that this judgment might be too harsh and that it could be made
quite intelligible, if not slightlv evidential, by disentangling its threads
of suggestive possibilities. Instead, therefore, of producing an elaborate
system of notes explaining these possibilities in connection with the
detailed record, I have preferred to indicate here the results of my
latest study of the sitting, while permitting the reader any judgment
that he may be pleased to form regarding either my opinion of its
possible value or the suggestive import of its incidents. Hence I
separate the account from the summary of other sittings in order to
make clear the distinction that a critic may wish observed, though I
Jim at great pains to indicate its intelligible possibilities, its unity with
later sittings and the interest of its dramatic play.
But I must utter a special warning against misunderstanding the
method I have employed in studying the record. I have often
recognised the relevance of certain names and incidents, apparently
i In this chapter I frequently quote passages from the detailed records, but in
doing so I have not thought it necessary to reproduce in all cases the repetitions of
words, etc., precisely as they are given in the Appendices. In the same way I have
abridged the extracts where such changes would effect greater clearness for the
general student and aid in discussing the questions at issue. The reader, of course,
can always compaie the extracts with the more complete statements of the detailed
record.
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 21
making a determined effort to find significance where there is no
evidential value. I was induced to do this partly by the discovery
that many of the statements which have to pass as literally false are
so near the exact truth that they could not be construed as telling
against personal identity and partly by the desire to show such a
psychological analysis of the various situations and possibilities in
special cases, that even many technical errors might appear consistent
with the evidential matter, thus offering a possible alternative to
guessing and suggestion. In other words, I have endeavoured to supply
such information to the reader as will enable him to see for himself
how far errors may be due to imperfect conditions for communication.
Compare Maltine incident (p. 418), and Munyon's Germicide (p. 391).
Anai.vsis of the First Sitting, December U3rd, 1898.
The chief interest of the first sitting, then, from the point of view
above indicated, is the dramatic feature representing the process of
ascertaining either my identity or the proper communicator. After
the usual preliminaries at the beginning of the trance, such as
greetings, arrangements for future sittings, etc., the function of
amanuensis was turned over to G. P. in this instance, and Dr.
Hodgson was sent out of the room just as a lady claimed to be
present to communicate with me. Several pages of writing follow,
in connection with this attempt to " reach " me, that are full of con
fusion so far as evidential matter is concerned, though intelligible as
dramatic play in the trying conditions for selecting the proper com
municators. In the midst of this confusion the names Margaret,
Lillie, and Henry [?] were given, evidently by the lady who claimed to
"belong" to me as my mother (p. 306). Careful investigation shows
that there is no Henry, near or remote, among the direct family
connections. There is an interesting piece of contingency in the first
two names, as I had a sister by the name of Margaret, the oldest in the
familv, who died when I was two years old, and another, my twin
sister, by the name of Sarah Luella (Cf. p. 331), at which Lillie might be
an attempt. But I cannot be sure of any relevance in either of them,
and the contingency deserves to be mentioned only as one of those
things that so easily mislead the ordinary inquirer into the recesses
of this subject. Whatever the theory to account for these phenomena,
it is evident that these names belong to the connections of the lady
claiming to be related to me. Assuming from the spiritistic point of
view that a number of persons were trying to "reach" me by shouting
all at once into the telephone, so to speak, we might interpret these
names as significant, excepting the name " Henry."
The communications that follow show confusion, though capable of
being disentangled by legitimate interpretation. The name " Alice "
22 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
comes closely upon " Henry," but is immediately corrected to " Annie,"
which is the diminutive name of a deceased sister, though this relation
ship is not here asserted by the communicator. In fact, it is not
possible to assume with any assurance who the communicator might be,
though it is probably the person who claims to be my mother. On
this assumption she is trying to give the names of the members
of the family with her, and the correction of the mistake of " Alice "
for " Annie " is possibly made by the latter herself. Immediately
following this I am asked if I remember anything about my
brother. I ask who he is, meaning that I want his name, and the
reply is . "I say, brother. I am your ... I know I am and
. . " which might be either from this brother or the person
claiming to be my mother. I then asked : " When did you pass out? "
and got the answer : " Only a long time ago." This would be true of
both my brother and mother, while the "only "might be interpreted as
a word from the message "only a short time ago" of someone else,
possibly my father. This is apparent from the answer to my next
question, which was : " Any other member of the family ? " The reply
was : " Yes, two. I have seen Annie and mother and Charles and
Henry." Whoever the communicator was in the previous equivocal
messages, it is apparent, on the surface at least of this last answer, that
it was neither my brother nor my mother. Hence seeing in the
sentence thus naming the members of the family that the communicator
was not my brother Charles, and, as I knew there was no Henry in the
family, I tried the dodge of pretending to believe that it was Charles
Henry, and asked if it was. The answer : " Ao, Charles," was very
pertinent and correct, as it excluded the Henry from consideration.
Thinking that I was not dealing with my brother, but with my father,
I asked the question : " Did he [Charles] pass out before you 1 " and the
answer: " No, I did not hear, did you say before," was followed by,
" Yes, he did, some time before." The latter was correct, assuming that
it was my father. The allusions that follow to the trouble with the
head and heart would apply, as far as they go, to my father, and the
passage comes to an end with the odd statement : " I say, give me my
hat." I learned later that this expression was characteristic of my
father (Cf. p. 313). I here presented an accordion for the hand to
touch (for reasons that the reader will find explained in the history of
the Piper case. See footnote, p. 307), but it did not prevent the confu
sion, so that the communicator was supplanted by my brother Charles
apparently, though there is no positive assurance of this until the
communication is stated in the first person of the one claiming to be
my brother. But he in turn is almost immediatelv supplanted by a
lady. The statements about the ownership of the accordion depend
for their relevancy altogether upon the question who is communicating,
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 23
and this is not made clear. Apparently it was my father who had
referred just before to his suddenly passing out at last, to the trouble
with his head and heart, and said, " I say, give me my hat," and hence
assuming that it was he that said, referring to the accordion,—" this
was not mine but his. It belonged to George " (Cf. guitar incident,
p. 461),—we have two statements that are false, though it is interesting
to see that they are apparently corrected immediately and spontaneously.
But if my brother Charles said it, as he was evidently communicating
in the next sentence, the first statement would be true, supposing that
the pronoun " his " referred to the previous communicator assumed to
be my father. My brother's next and very definite statement, suppos
ing that the original is rightly read as " my father," was exactly true
in all its details, namely, the ownership of the accordion, the implied
death of the owner, and the name of my brother. My statement that
" it belonged to someone else " is not suggestive of the facts, though it
might appear suspiciously near it. The strongest fact in the passage is
the statement or implication that Charles is the name of my brother.
Annie, or Anna, was the name of my sister, but I am not distinctly
told this, while I am left altogether to the contents of later sittings to
infer the possibility that the allusion to the trouble with the head and
heart, and to the want of a hat comes from my father. No indepen
dent evidential value belongs to the passage. There is simply in it the
apparent groping about of inexperienced communicators to make their
presence known.
Following this episode G. P. wrote : " You will have to have
patience with me, friend, for there are three persons who are all
speaking to me at once. One is calling mother, and the other is
calling Charles, and the other is calling for you " (p. 308). The
communication from the lady that apparently came from the person
" calling mother " is clear-cut and definite. But not a name or a fact in
it has any relevancy to me or to my family connections. Dr. Hodgson
is then sent out of the room and G. P. writes : " I cannot keep the lady
from talking, neither can I keep the young man who claims to be
your brother.'' The reference to Edwards which follows, and which
has no significance to me, might be connected with the communicators
claiming to be my mother and brother and who disappear. At this
point the communication became relevant, and suggested my brother
Charles : " I had a fever, and they said it was typhoid. My throat,
I had a very bad throat, and it took me over here. And I did not
know any one before I left my body." It was true that Charles died
of a fever, but it was not typhoid. It was scarlet fever. I found also—
what I did not know at the time of the sitting, though I may have
heard it mentioned when I was a child—that he suffered with a very
putrid sore throat during his illness. I learn that this is characteristic
24 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
of scarlet fever, but I did not know the fact at the time of the
message. The statement that he did not know any one before he left
the body will depend for its truth upon its interpretation. If it means
that he did not know any one "in spirit" before his death, it is
perfectly true, as my sisters Margaret and Sarah died before he was
born. If it means that he did not know any of us or any person "on
earth " it is equivocal. If it means that he does not remember any one,
this might be true, as he was only four and a-half years old when he
died thirty-four years ago ; but if it means that he never saw or knew
any one, it would bo false.
My brother continues : " I think I have been here a good many
years, and I do not know all of my which if it had
ended with " brothers and sisters " would have completed the truth,
as two brothers and a half-sister were born after his death. But I
interrupted with the question, " Have you seen mother 1 " He
said, " She is here with me. She is all right. She came here after
I did." It is true that my mother died after this brother. I then
asked if he had seen anyone else besides mother, having in mind
my father, and the reply was, " Yes, I have. Do you remember
she had a sister who was in the body when I passed out 7
But she came here, too, and she came after mother." Every word of
this is true, both as to the facts and as to the time relations of their
occurrence ; but it was not reading my thoughts at the time. Only
one of my mother's sisters has died since she did in 1869. No answer
came to my request for the name of this sister. But he continued :
" Then there is another one who is here, and she is nearer to you than
all the rest of us, and she will soon be able to tell you all you would
care to know." This either means nothing or it might be a possible
reference to my twin sister, who died when she was four months old.
But she never comes to communicate, neither does my sister Margaret,
who died wrhen she was two years old, and when I was onlv one
month old.
Then immediatelv follows : " Where is Will ? " This is the name
of one of my brothers still living, and was brought out in a most
unhesitating manner. The message, however, in which he states that
he is bringing someone here to communicate, and that she was the last
to " come here," is perfectly unintelligible.
At this point my brother is apparently interrupted, though I did
not suspect it at the time, by an attempt of my uncle to communicate,
who had died about a month before the sitting (p. 310). I surmise
this because of the two references "El . . . " (which becomes
Eliza, the name of this uncle's wife at a later sitting, p. 314) and
" Robertson," which was apparently intended for " Robert's son "
(p. 317). These two points came out later in connection with incidents
XLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 25
which obviously pointed to this uncle. I was also as much confused
here as the communicator.
But my brother resumes his messages where he left off for my
uncle (?), and I interrupted him with the question: "Time of year
passed out ! " The answer was : " I think it was winter, because I
remember seeing it snow." As a fact, it snowed the day before and I
think on the morning of his death. I further asked where I was at
the time, and the reply was : " I think you were not with me. I do
not think I saw you at all before I came here." I was absent
on an errand when he died. The statement, however, can hardly
be interpreted as recognising this absence, but rather indicates
that he did not remember me, which is possible enough (see above,
p. 24). But why should telepathy put the matter in that form ? If it
be the answer that I wanted it might be called telepathic, and the first
part of the statement bears that interpretation. But the later part
puts another meaning on it, showing the natural point of view and
possibly the fact for the communicator, while this was contrary to
what was actually in both my supraliminal consciousness and my
memory ! I knew him well enough, but it would be natural for him
not to know me or to remember me.
After a second unimportant reference to my mother again in
response to my question about her, he suddenly asked me : " Well,
what did you mean by asking for George 1 " Earlier in the
sitting I asked: "Have you seen George?" (p. 307), the name of
a brother still living, though I did not say he was living, but was
trying to make the communicator think that this person was on the
" other side." After my saying that I wanted merely to know if
he remembered him, he said : " Yes, but George is here. I say George
is not here." As G. P. (real name George) was the amanuensis, there
might have been some misunderstanding at first, on his part. When I
repeated the question : " Do you say George is not here 1 " in order
to see which statement was meant, the answer came : "I say he is
not, and I could not understand why you asked me if he was here.
Neither is he coming for awhile yet. He is well and doing well and
so be it." This was an interesting and pertinent statement, though it
is suggestive to see it in the mouth of my brother, when, if the
interpretation of the passage in which I asked the question first about
this brother George be correct, my father and brother were both
present (p. 308).
The name Corrie, which I was asked if I remembered, has no
pertinence; but if it had been Cora (6/. p. 452) it would have been more
important, as the name either of my aunt Cora or of my oldest sister
Margaret Cornelia, who was named after this aunt. (Cf. p. 350 and
Note 61, p. 514.) I asked, " Is it Mary," and the reply came : " I say
2G [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
it is, and she is father's sister." My father's oldest sister, who died
before I ever knew her, was called Mary Amanda. I never heard the
name Mary applied to her, but always heard her called Amanda, and
this not often. The reference to Elizabeth, possibly as my mother's
sister (though the statement can as well refer to the Mary repeated
here, in which case it would he false), contains only this approximation
to the truth, namely, that the sister of my mother, who died either
before my mother was born, or when she was very young, was called
Eliza. The sitting at this point began to come to an end.
The sitting as a whole left a bad impression upon me at the time,
as it seemed so full of confusion. To an outsider it must still seem
utterly unintelligible, and would be the same to myself but for the
subsequent sittings and the light which a study of them throws upon
this one. There was not at any time evidential matter enough in it
to incline me toward the spiritistic hypothesis, nor did I suspect at all
even any supernormal phenomena. But in the light of the facts
which I now know and of a clear understanding of the represented
machinery of communication, I can make a clear and intelligible story
out of the sitting, excepting the statements associated with the lady
who was not a relative of mine. But it would not have the slightest
value as evidence for the spiritistic theory, unless we considered the
actual coincidences in it as favourable to that doctrine and not account
able to telepathy.
I now proceed to deal with the remaining sittings and to give the
chief incidents connected with the different communicators. These
are my father Robert Hyslop, my uncle James Carruthers, my cousin
Robert McClellan, my brother Charles Hyslop, my sister Anna Hyslop,
and my uncle James McClellan. My mother is not prominent enough
as a communicator to give her any place in this summary.
As an important help to the reader it may he useful to have a
running account of the chief " communicator's " life and its relation to
the other persons mentioned in the record. I shall not, however,
mention any other events than are necessary for the right comprehen
sion of the record and its unity. I shall group the incidents in a
chronological order as far as possible.
My father, Robert Hyslop, was born in 1821 and lived on a farm
in Ohio until 18K9, when he moved West into a neighboring State. He
suddenly returned to his old home, dangerously ill with something like
cancer of the larynx, in August, 1896, and died on the 29th of that
month at the home of his brother-in-law, James Carruthers. Some
where about 1860 he injured his spine by a day's overwork and a few
years afterward became affected with locomotor ataxy and gradually
lost the use of one of his legs so that he had to use a crutch for a
rjLLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 27
while, and finally a cane after some improvement. In 1876 he had a
slight stroke of apoplexy, or something like it. After it his hearing
liecame affected, one ear being quite deaf. About three years before
his death he lost the use of his voice from what was probably paralysis
of the larynx. Finally a year or so before his death he took what he
thought was catarrh, but which was more probably cancer of the
larynx, and it was accompanied with frequent spasms which threatened
to end his life.
My father had three sisters, Mary Amanda, Nancy, and Eliza.
The first of the three married James McClellan, who figures as one of
the "communicators " in this record (pp. 108-111). She died in 1849,
five years before I was born. The other two are still living, but lost
their husbands a short time before my first set of experiments. Eliza
married James Carruthers, the " communicator " who appears now as
" uncle Charles " and now as " uncle Clarke " in this record. The
name of the other uncle was not even hinted at in the " com
munications," though one allusion implies his death (p. 316). My
mother died in 1869 and my father was married a second time in
1872.
The names of my brothers and sisters are Margaret Cornelia,
who died at two years of age in 1 854 ; Sarah Luella, my twin sister,
who died four months old in 1854; Charles, who died at four and
a half years in 1864 ; and Anna Laura, who died nearly three years
old in 1864. Of those living are myself, James H., George, Lida
(Eliza), William, Robert, Frank (Francis), and Henrietta, my half-
sister, spoken of as Hettie in this record.
My father belonged to a very orthodox sect. It was the small body of
Associate Presbyterians who refused to join in the union of that denomi
nation with the Associate Reformed Presbyterians to form the United
Presbyterian Church in 1858. He took an active but not official part
in the controversies that went on about this union at the time. It was
this fact that brought him into acquaintance and friendship with the
Dr. Cooper mentioned in the record, the latter finally going into the
union. My father remained in the small body that refused to modify
its doctrines and practices. This body held out against every form of
instrumental worship in religious services, and also against the singing
of hymns of human composition. There were many other points of
distinction which are not important for this record. But in his life
my father adhered strictly to the covenants of his profession, and knew
nothing of science and philosophy, except what I discussed with him,
though he read deeply and thoroughly in the theology of his church
and was in that a very intelligent man. He had keen and quick
perceptions, and understood any question clearly when put to him in
the right way.
28 J. H. Hyslop, PhD.
When ho gave me an education he rather hoped I would study for
the ministry, but he never undertook either to persuade or compel me
to do so. He left the whole matter to my free choice. But when he
ascertained from my confession in 1882 that I had to modify my religious
beliefs he felt the apostasy very keenly and it was long before he could
in any way reconcile himself to it. My "ideas" were a perpetual
puzzle to him and his own orthodoxy too fixed to list-en to the wiles of
scepticism. He was not known to the public in any way, and was
what would be called a very obscure man. His name never appeared
in print except in an occasional article of his own in the denominational
periodical with a small and obscure circulation, or in connection with
some matter of county or township interest.
Statements of my Father, Robert Hyslop.
The seqond sitting opened with a very marked difference between
it and the first. The situation seemed to have completely changed.
The same apparent causes for confusion were not manifest. The trance
personalities seemed to have the situation perfectly at command. The
first sitting had closed with the expressed indication by G. P. that the
lady who had claimed me for her son should be made clear again. But
in the meantime it was as if the trance personalities had consulted over
the situation and the evidence, and had become assured of the right
communicators. The opening of the second sitting after the usual
preliminaries with the confident address to me in my own name in the
very first words is evidence of the appearance as I have described it.
I was addressed : "James. James. Speak. James. James, speak
to me. James. James," the name by which my father always called
me after 1877. But there was no such apparent fishing and hesitation
in regard to the rightful communications that had marked the dubious
situation in the first sitting. The way was now perfectly clear for
settled communications.
In a few minutes after addressing me as indicated above I was
asked " Where is Willie I " This was a repetition of the name of my
brother and the question regarding him of the previous day. Some
non-evidential statements followed, and my father's place was taken by
my brother Charles, who gave both his name and relationship to me,
and intimated that the previous communicator was my father. No
important fact was stated by my brother, and he was followed by a
long communication purporting to come from my uncle. But I pass
this by for the present to summarise those from my father, leading to
his own identity and suggestive of that of others. After my uncle
left my father returns to take up his communications. I quote the
record (p. 316).
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 29
Will you let me return again and help to free my mind ? Do you know
Uncle Charles? (S. : What Uncle Charles ?) He is here. (S. : I don't
know any Uncle Charles.) And * * No, I am thinking ... let
me see. I think it is not a real uncle. You must remember what I mean.
He used to be so nervous. i
It all at once dawned on me that " uncle Charles " was a mistake
for " uncle Carruthers," who had died about a month previouslv. He
was the husband of my father's sister. The relevance of the passage
is therefore evident. Almost immediately my father says, evidently
with reference to this sister and another, both of whom had just lost
their husbands within a month of each other : " I wish you would tell
the girls I am with them in sorrow or pleas ... or joy, it matters
not. What is their loss is our gain." The name (Eliza) of one of
these " girls," his sister and the wife of the communicator to whom
he had just referred, was given in my uncle's communication. The
sentence, " what is their loss is our gain," was both pertinent and
a common expression of father's in situations of this kind. The
record then proceeds as follows :—
(S. : Free your mind, father.) I will, indeed, but have you seen the
children yet ? (S. : I have not seen them for two years.) They are
wonderfully good, I think. I know, James, that my thoughts are muddled,
but if you can only hear what I am saying, you will not mind it. Do you
know where George is ? (S. : Yes, I know where he is.) Are you troubled
about him . . .he is all right and will be, James. (S. : Yes, all right.)
Worry not. (S. : No, I will not worry.) But you do. (S. : Yes. I have
worried some, but I will not any more.) Thank God. James, if you will
only stick to this . . . stick to the promise not to worry, you will in
time be contented and happy while still in the body (p. 316).
This is a very pertinent passage. How much so is brought out
more fully in my notes (pp. 317, 352). But the name of my brother is
correct, and the advice not to worry about him was characteristic of
my father in the matters connected with this brother. The mental
attitude of apology toward him is that of my father toward him while
living. The expression "stick to this" was also characteristic.
i Atterixkt mean that a word or words are omitted which were actually written or
spoken at the sitting, but which were undecipherable. Dots mean that there has been
apparently some interruption in the speech or writing, but not that any words written
or spoken have been omitted.—J. H. H.
i In the accounts of the sittings, the sitter's remarks and questions are through
out given in round brackets, and the explanatory notes in square brackets. The
letter "S" stands for "Sitter," in this case myself, and "R. H." for Dr. Hodgson.
In the sittings for February 7th, 8th, Kith, 20th, and 22nd, which were conducted by
Dr. Hodgson alone while I was in New York, all the remarks, of course, were made
by him.-J. H. H.
30 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
At this point I placed the accordion on the table, and after a short
interruption by my uncle my father continues (p. 318) :—
Do you recall your lectures, and, if so, to whom [do you] recite them
now ? I often hear them in my own mind. Give me some [thing] for the
purpose of helping me remain here longer. (S. : Yes, here it is.) [giving
accordion] My toy. I remember it so well. I left all so suddenly, yet
I knew I was coming. (S. : Yes. Yes, I think so too.) Do you remember
what my feeling was about this life 1 (S. : Yes, I do.) Well, I was not so
far wrong after all. I felt sure that there would be some knowledge of this
life, but you were doubtful, remember. (S.. : Yes. Yes, I remember.) You
had your own ideas, which were only yours, James.
My father was of the orthodox belief and, of course, accepted a
future life. I was sceptical on this, as on other subjects connected
with orthodoxy, and I was the only one in the family, as indicated
here, that was so affected, so far as my father's knowledge went.
The passage is therefore quite correct in its details, as well as
the phrase ''you had your own ideas," as I would say "opinions."
But the subject and allusion to my scepticism introduces a topic
to which my father returns again and again during my experi
ments, and always with new facts of our experience in connection
with it. 1 shall therefore state in this connection all that was given
in his communications regarding it. It relates to the materials of a
conversation that we had on this very subject on my last visit to him
in January or February, 1895. There appears in the communications
more sympathy with "spiritualism" than most persons would recognise
in him from his orthodox affiliations. But the fact was that he knew
absolutely nothing about that doctrine in its fraudulent aspects as it is
usuallv known. He never saw anything of it personally, and knew it
only as stated in one of his Biblical commentaries. Hence he did not
know enough about it to despise it. But in this conversation with
him, which occurred several times on the two or three days I stayed
with him, he showed a surprisingly receptive attitude toward it. I
had been lecturing on psychical research in Indianapolis a few days
before, and the conversation came about in thus explaining the nature
of my suilden and unexpected visit to him. His receptive attitude,
however, at that time will explain why I am not surprised at the tone
of his speech in the present allusions to be considered immediately. It
is, of course, the later communications that give me the right to
interpret the above passage as referring to the subject in view.
In the sitting of December 26th he returned to this subject as
follows : " I see clearly now, and oh, if I could only tell you all that
is in my mind. It was not an hallucination but a reality, but I felt it
would be possible to reach you " (p. 325). At this point I interrupted
with a question, but after a little interval he resumed the same thread.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 31
"James, are you here still? If so, I want very much to know if you
remember what I promised you. (S : Yes. I hope you will tell me what
you promised.) I told you if it would be possible for me to return to you
I would (S. : Yes, I remember), and try and convince you that I lived. I
told you more than this, and I will remember it all. I told you I would come
back if possible, and ... let you know that I was not annihilated. I
remember well our talks about this life and its conditions, and there was a
great question of doubt as to the possibility of communication, that if I
remember rightly was the one question which we talked over. Will
return soon. Wait for me" (p. 325). A little later in the same sitting he
said :—"I have been calling for you ever since I left my body" (p. 327).
Later still in the same sitting, speaking of trying to prove his identity, he
again alludes to keeping his promise (p. 332).
In the sitting of December 27th (p. 341), he asks: -"What do you
remember, James, of our talks about Swedenborg ? (S. : I remember only
that we talked about him.) Do you remember of our talking one evening
in the library about his description of the Bible ? (S : No.) Several years
ago? (S. : No, I do not remember it.) His opinion of its spiritual sense?
(S. : No. I do not remember that but perhaps some one else in the family
does.) I am sure of our talks on the subject. It may have been with one
of the others, to be sure. In any case I shall soon be able to remember all
about it."
On February 7th following, Dr. Hodgson began his series of sittings
an my behalf, and near the beginning of the first one, father alludes to
the Swedenborg incident spontaneously (p.370), as might be natural from
the attitude that I had taken toward it in my last sitting previous, and
expressed his satisfaction with my understanding of it, as told him in
January by Dr. Hodgson, the message having been sent him through
Rector. A little later in the sitting he says : " I often think of the
long talks we used to have during my last years in earth life of the
possibilities of communication with each other" (p. 372).
In my own sitting of May 29th the subject is resumed in the
following brief manner :—
" Yes, I am here and I am thinking over the things I said when I was
confused. Do you remember of my telling you I thought it possible that we
might live elsewhere ? But to speak was doubtful very " (p. 420). Near the
beginning of the sitting for May 31st, another remarkable passage on this
subject occurs. In response to my good morning to him, he began : " I
heard every word and I am coming nearer to you. There is no dream here.
And shut out the thought theory and do not let it trouble you. I went on
theorising all my earthly life and what did I gain by it V My thoughts only
became more subtle and unsatisfactory. There is a (rod, an all wise and
omnipotent God Who is our Guide and if we follow the best within ourselves
we will know more of Him. Now speaking of Swedenborg, what does it
matter whether his teachings were right or wrong so long as we are
individually ourselves here " (p. 438).
32 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
In the sitting for June 6th there is a longer and more interesting
passage on this subject. In reply to a statement of explanation indi
cating that I had looked up a certain matter to which he referred, he
began (p. 474) :—
Well, now I feel satisfied to feel that you are at least pulling with my
push, and that is all I can ask of you. I remember perfectly well
what my own theories were concerning this life, and my too often
expressing doubts about it. I do indeed, but I think I was moved
with the thought that I should live somewhere and not die as a
vegetable. Do you remember our conversations on this subject ! (S. :
Yes, I do. Can you tell when it was. Yes, I do remember the
. . . ) Yes, do you remember of my last visit . . . your last
visit (S. : Yes.) with me? (S. : Yes, I remember it well.) It was more
particularly on this occasion than before. (S. : Yes, that is right. Do you
know what I was doing just before I made the visit !) Yes, I believe you
had been experimenting on the subject, and I remember of your telling me
something about hypnotism. (S. : Yes, I remember that well.) And what
did you tell me about some kind of manifestation which you wero in doubt
about ? (S. : It was about apparitions near the point of death.) [Excite
ment in hand.] Oh, yes, indeed, I recall it very well, and you told me
[about] a young woman who had had some experiments and dreams (S. :
Yes, that is right.) which interested me very much, but yet you were
doubtful about life after so-called death. Remember the long talks we had
together on this, James.
In the sitting of June 7th the subject recurs again (pp. 484-485):—
Do you remember what I said when you told me about the dreams and
what answer I gave you in regard to it ? (S. : No, I have forgotten that,
but I think some one else may remember it who was present.)
I said there were doubtless a great number of these cases, when summed
up they would be of great importance in trying to explain a life elsewhere,
but they seemed to indicate it. Don't you remember it now ? And one
of our own family had an experience some years ago. Do you remember
anything about this either ? (S. : Yes, I remember that. Can you say
which one had that experience ?)
I intended to, and I wanted to remind you of it before, but I was too
far off to say it before I came here. I have often thought about it : in fact
we have spoken of it together since I came here. I mean since I passed out.
It was Charles who came and took my place before I had time to finish it.
I will try and finish it before I go. And he saw the light, and spoke of it
before he came here, James.
Oh, dear, I want to say a great deal more, and cannot they give us more
light ? [Hand bows in prayer.] The light is not so good this day as we
would have it be, yet we will help give it.
I am still here, James, and I am thinking about the experience your uncle
had before he came here. It was your uncle who had it, and we have often
spoken of it together here, James. (S. : Yes. That is the uncle who
married your sister Eliza.) [Hand assents.] Yes, Clarke. And it was a
notification of his coming suddenly. He often refers to it.
xLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 33
Is this clear to James, friend? [Rector's question to Dr. Hodgson.]
(S. : Yes, that is clear.) [I had the legibility of the writing in mind. See
Note, p. 485.]
I did wish to say this when I was referring to it last time, but I was too
far off. I remember very well the facts and you must.
Now for the facts as I recall them. The}- are substantially as
indicated in the communications with the exception of two or three. I
did hold those long conversations with my father on my last visit, as
stated here. I was exceedingly sceptical about the subject and about a
life hereafter. I made this very clear in my treatment both of appa
ritions and of the first two reports on Mrs. Piper, which I explained
away by telepathy, " the thought theory," as stated here in the com
munication. My attitude toward apparitions is intimated in the state
ment of the communicator that he did not think it would be a
" hallucination, but a reality." I was confident, however, that we had
not talked about Swedenborg, and did not believe that father knew
anything about him. But investigation showed that we did talk
about him, and that my memory and judgment were wrong on this
point. (See Note 17, p. 361.) We did also talk about hypnotism.
Father brought this up for explanation, mentioning some striking
public performances reported in the town. I discussed the matter
fully and tried to hypnotise my brother several times and failed, much
to my father's disappointment. Most interesting also is the fact that I
told him in that conversation of Mrs. D.'s dream and the experiment
which I performed in connection with it. (Proceedings, Vol. XII.,
pp. 272-27+.)
In regard to the promise made to me that he would return and if
possible let me know that he still lived, I can only say that I wrote to
him on his deathbed "to come to me after it was all over," my inten
tion being to try the experiment of which we hear so much. But in
the reply to this letter, which he dictated to my stepmother, no such
promise is made, and I do not recall ever broaching it at any other
time, or any such promise being made. But from the reply that he
made to my stepmother when she asked him what I meant by this
last request in the last sentence of my last letter to him, it is reason
able to suppose that he had this return in his mind, as he evidently
understood the request, but would not reveal his thoughts. (See Note 9,
p. 356.) As to his remark about the effect of a large number of
apparitions on the evidence for a future life, I do not recall it. I was
more likely the person to hold this view of them, and have no doubt
that I expressed it as the suggestion of such experiences, though I was
not prepared to accept them as satisfactory proof. His perspicacity
and his interest in the subject at the time qualified him to either make
or appreciate the remark, but I do not recall that he made it. The
ii
34 [I'AKT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
experience of my uncle cannot be verified, as it is described here. He
did have a vision at one time, to which he gave some religions import
ance in his life as a monition to decide which path he should choose ;
but, in addition to the fact that it occurred under a dose of morphine
in a serious illness, its character would not appear to a scientific mind
as in any respect premonitory—even after premonition was prove<l—
and I could not find any traces among the members of his family of
any other experience in their knowledge that would justify the inter
pretation here given. But in all other respects the coincidences in the
communications speak for themselves, both as regards the matter of
personal identity and that of an independent memory exhibiting itself
throughout every condition of the experiments.
To return to the point (p. 318) at which I began this long incident
about the present subject—after an interesting interruption of the
communications with some conversation by Rector with Dr. Hodgson
about a "little girl trying to find her mother," the incident having no
reference to me (p. 319)—my father returns to say that he " was the
last to come here," and asked if I recalled his being frank, and said,
" I recall the struggles you had over your work well, very well.
Everything in life should be done with sincerity of purpose. I know well
all the difficulties which you encounter" (p. 321). The first statement
was a correct fact, his frankness with me was a marked characteristic,
and the reference to sincerity of purpose contained the exact phraseology
which represented his constant advice in any trying intellectual,
moral, or religious difficulty. The sitting then came to a close.
Near the beginning of the third sitting, after addressing me as
" James," etc., my father asked me if I remembered the story he used
to tell me of a fire when he was quite young. I asked what story, and
the message was repeated, and I thought of a certain fire of which
I knew when I, not he, was young (p. 324). In the effort to have it
cleared up the subject was changed. But I brought him back to it by
a question regarding it, and the reply was, " Oh, yes, the fire. Strange
I was forgetting to go on. I was nearly forgetting to go on with
it. The fire did great damage and I used to think I never would care
to sec the like again." I was unable to conjecture to what he referred
with any assurance, especially as there were both exaggeration and
discrepancies in it, so far as my memory of fires was concerned.
Nothing more was volunteered on the subject in this series of sittings.
But in the sitting by Dr. Hodgson on February 7th, Kector indicates
that father is thinking of a fire about which he wishes to be clear
(p. 372). Then on May 30th at my sitting (p. 430), father asks, " And
do you recall the fire I spoke to you about V I replied that I
remembered a fire, but was not certain what fire he meant. The reply
came, " We lived near, and although it did not interfere, it gave me a
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 35
fright. My thoughts are quite clear on this point. I think there can
be no mistaking it." Singularly enough, this is followed by the spon
taneous remark that some things which he has tried to say may seem
muddled, as the first allusion to the fire evidently was, according to
the sequel, in the following facts
Investigation at first discovered no probabilities in the first mention
of the fire. Later my aunt recalled a fire when my father was young,
which probably instigated the concern he felt about fire throughout
his life. But on reading the passage in the sitting of May 30th to
my stepmother (p. 430), she and my sister at once recalled a fire that gave
my father quite a fright. It was not when he was young, but a short
time before he moved West. He was always anxious about his barn
and house, as he could never be induced to insure them until late in
life. The occasion that fits the later message is described fully in my
note (p. 364). It brings out the exaggeration and possible truth in
the first message, as well as the certain truth in the second, so that a
singular interest attaches to the statement that indicates an apparent
consciousness of confusion in this incident.
The next allusion after the fire in this sitting of December 26th was
to our conversation on spirit communication, which has been discussed
already. At the end of it I took the opportunity to ask the question,
" Do you know what the trouble was when you passed out I " and there
followed one of the most remarkable, though confused messages in
the record. I asked the question in order to test his identity most
thoroughly, and had in mind the disease from which he thought he
suffered, namely, catarrh, while I knew it was probably cancer of the
larynx. I knew that if cancer of the larynx was mentioned, the
theory of telepathy would have a strong, if not conclusive, point in its
favour. But the following communications came in answer (p. 327) :--
No, I did not realise that we had any trouble, James, ever. I thought
we were always most congenial to each other. I do not remember any
trouble, tell me what was it about ? You do not mean with me, do you
. . . (S. : Father, you misunderstand me. I mean with the sickness.) Oh,
yes, I hear. I hear you. Yes, I know now. Yes, my stomach. (S. : Yes,
was there anything else the matter ?) Yes ; stomach, liver, and head.
: Very well. Tell all about it.) He has taken off this condition, but
tells me he could not see clearly. What was meant by his eyes. His
stomach and . . . speak plainly ... [to invisible] I do not get
it. Sounds like Bone (?) Bone (?) Bone (?) he is telling me. Wait.
He places his hand over his . . . heart beat (!) (S. : Heart?) Yes,
let me reach thee, friend. [Hand moves over R. H.'s head.] Think I am
finding it hard to breathe ... my heart, James . . . my heart,
James. . . . difficult to breathe. Do you not remember how I used to
breathe ? (S. : Yes, father, you are on the right line now.) Yes, I think it,
was my heart which troubled me most, and my lung. Stomach and heart.
D 2
36 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I felt a * * * [undeciphered] and tightness of my chest . . . and
my heart failed mc. He says distressed in the region of the heart, but at
last I went to sleep. Was it not congestion, Jaines ? (S.: Not that I know
of.) [I hud the catarrh in mind in saying this when I should have had the
death scene.] I will try and remember all about it, ho says, yet I remember
heart and head well
A little later he apparently returns to the recollections of his
last moments and says : " Do you know the last thing I recall is your
speaking to me. (S. : Yes, right.) And you were the last to do so.
(S. : Very well. Was any one else at the bedside 1) I remember
seeing your face, but I was too weak to answer" (p. 332).
I did not discover in this remarkable passage until I was reading the
sitting over at Dr. Hodgson's office, that it was an attempt to describe
the incidents of his death. I was prevented from seeing this l»cause the
spasms of the larynx from which he frequently suffered were accom
panied by great difficulty in breathing, and I disregarded the other
allusions as automatisms ; until it all at once came upon me, from the
recollection indicated in the term " congestion," that he had interpreted
my question in another, and in fact, more correct sense, to refer to his
death. At once every one of the incidents indicated assumed a
perfectly definite meaning, as my note shows very clearly (p. 328).
The trouble with his stomach was especially noticed in the morning
about seven o'clock. The heart action began to decline about half-past
nine, and this was followed by increasing difficulty in getting his
breath until the struggle for this became one of the most painful
things I ever witnessed. Just after the last effort his eyes closed as if
going to sleep, and in a moment the jaw fell and the end came. The
allusion to the " congestion " appeared to suggest telepathy to account
for it, as soon as I saw the meaning of the question, as I knew from
the doctor's statement that he suffered from congestion in his spasms,
and I thought that my father knew nothing about it. But the doctor's
testimony shows that my father did know the fact (p. 356). It is not
known whether he suffered with his eyes during his last moments,
though it is probable. The references to his liver and to what was
interpreted as " Bone " are unintelligible.
The allusion to my being the last to speak to him is a remarkable
incident. When his eyelids fell, as I said, I exclaimed, " He's gone,"
and I was the last to speak. Father had been unable to speak for
more than an hour. All these incidents, including the physical
symptoms of his dying, are a confirmation of my inference regarding
the " consciousness of dying " in this very case, though I did not
mention any names, in the account of it published in the Journal of
the S.P.R. (Vol. VIII, pp. 250-255). That inference was that he was
conscious of dying. The statement, however, that " at last I went to
xLL] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 37
sleep " might throw some doubt on the implication that I attached to
the "consciousness of dying" in this case. But it is interesting to
trace a perfectly clear consciousness up to the closing of the eyes and
falling of the jaw after the motor system refused to allow any expression
of consciousness.
The statement at the close of the message referring to his last
moments and illness that he would try and remember it, gave me an
opportunity to ask him if he remembered what medicine I had gotten for
him in New York, this medicine having been obtained for his catarrh.
I thought that this question might help him out in the answer. He
said :- -
Yes, I do faintly. (S. : Never mind. Tell me about it later, when you
feel clear.) James, it was my heart, and I remember it well, and my eyes
troubled me also. Do you remember this ? (S. : No, I do not remember
this.) Do you not remember what the swelling meant? ^1 remember taking
hold of my own hands and holding them together over my chest, but strange
I cannot think of the word I want. I know it so well ton. (S. : Do I know
it also ?) Oh yes, very well. (S. : Did I ever have the (same sickness ?)
Yes, long ago. (S. : Yes, that is right. What did I do for it ?) This is
what I cannot think, and it troubles me a little, James, because I know it
so well (p. 330).
The first part of the answer to my question seems to be a reversion
to his sickness after telling him not to worry about the medicine. The
difficulty with his eyes I knew nothing about at the time, but learned
from my stepmother, since the sitting, that during the last year of his
life he was troubled with his left eye in particular, as well as with his
larynx. The reference to the swelling was pertinent, as he often
expressed wonder that the outside of his throat should be swollen from
the effects of catarrh. He probably held his hands over his breast
when taking the inhaler to bed with him, but this is not verifiable.
The answer that I had the same sickness long ago is correct. I had
the catarrh very badly between fourteen and twenty-one.
After an interval (occupied by other communicators) my father at
once began to try giving the name of the medicine, and apparently
tried to say quinine (quien), but on being asked if this was what he
meant, the hand dissented (p. 332), and after saying that " it begins
with D," gave it up with the statement, " Oh, I know it so well, yet
I cannot say it when I wish to." I repeated the request not to worry
about it, saying that it would come again.
Near the beginning of the sitting of the next clay, December 27th,
he undertook to answer the question about the medicine and succeeded.
He said : " I remember Himi [or Hime] S (R. H. : Is that Hume ?)
(S. : Yes, that is right.) Yes. S. * * * is (?) Hume [?] [not
clear intermediate letters] hme (?) (S. : Yes, that is right. Now one
:3>S [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
or two words after that.) S nut [?] Serris [?] doings ['!] I cannot
catch all now . . . life. . . . You know what is on my mind
perfectly, James. I used to speak of it often " (p. 336).
The medicine that I got for him was Hyoruei (accented on first
syllable) and he came near enough this in "Himi" for me not to press
the struggle farther. What the " S " and " Serris " meant was not clear.
A few minutes later, he resumed the attempt, as follows :—
I am thinking of Streine (?) Str .... stri .... strycn ... .
Speak, speak. (S. : Well, father, ia this Stryo 0 Yea. (S. : Well, what is
the next letter ?) Nia .... E . . . . E . . . . Str. Slower, sir, do
not speak so fast. I will help you. Now slower—[to spirit.] StR . . .
Strycnine." (S. : Good, father, that is right.) Do you hear me, my son ?
(S. : Yes, father, I hear you perfectly.) I remember you went and got it for
me. God bless you, James, he says. And a numerous amount of other
medicines [?] which I cannot * * * [undec.] (p. 337).
I remembered nothing about bis taking strychnine, and ascertained
from my stepmother, my brother, and my sister that he was taking it
with the Hyomei. Later I found that my father had mentioned both
arsenic and strychnine in one of his letters to me written about three
months before his death, so that I had forgotten the fact. The
" ,S nut " and " Serris " may have been attempts to give one or both of
these names. But the Hyomei was the only medicine that I myself
obtained for him. The strychnine was prescribed for him by the
physician where he was living. I learned that my father had taken a
great many different medicines.
In getting the confirmation of the strychnine incident, my step
mother mentioned incidentally another medicine that he had taken in
considerable quantities, and, as a further test, when Dr. Hodgson held
his sittings for me, I sent on the question to know whether he remem
bered any other medicines that he had taken besides the Hyomei and
the strychnine, and at about the same time. Dr. Hodgson asked the
question near the close of the sitting on February 8th. On February
Kith Rector stated that it was morphine, and immediatelv afterward
Dr. Hodgson repeated the question to father and he confirmed Rector's
statement (p. 384). A little later he spontaneously apologised for
taking morphine : " Do not gather the idea that I was a subject to
morphia because I was not, only as a medicine " (p. 385).
Inquiry showed that he had never taken any morphine and that he
was always very strongly opposed to using it. At the opening of
the sitting for February 20th, after Dr. Hodgson explained to him
that I did not know about the morphine, but was thinking about some
" patent medicine," be requested Dr. Hodgson to ask me " if he does
not recall the fact of my taking several grains of morphia before I took
XL!.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 3i)
the Hyomei!" (p. 391). This would have been correct if he had said
arsenic. Rector then says :—
" I think he will recall it yet," and father at once takes up the thread and
says : "It was, if I remomber rightly, I think some months before when I
had a bad or ill turn." It is true that my father had a specially ill turn
some months before he sent for the Hyomei. He then apparently recurs
to the inquiry about the "patent medicine," and says: "I will try and
recall the name of that preparation" (p. 391).
In a few minutes, and after a respite, he began : "Yes, I took . . .
yes, I took HU HUN Yes, I took Munion
. . . . M U N Y O N sounds like . . . and he repeats again
and again Gerniside (Gerniside ?) Yes, Germisid e." In a few
minutes again, in response to the question of Dr. Hodgson about any other
medicines, he said: "I took at one time some preparation of oil, but the
name has gone from my memory. I know everything so well when I am
not speaking to you " (p. 391).
Inquiry discovered that father had never taken any of Munyon's
Catarrh Remedy, which would be the only one of Munyon's medicines
that he would be disposed to get, nor did he take any other of that
system of medicines. But I ascertained that he had often talked of
getting this very medicine, having seen it advertised, according to the
testimony of my brother, in a circular, and it is widely known as a
germicide. The "preparation of oil" he did use. It was called
Japanese Oil, and was sent to him by a friend. . This incident was not
known to me.
On February 22nd, near the beginning of the sitting, he spon
taneously referred (p. 397) to " taking this vapor preparation to
which I have previously given mention." The Hyomei is a vapour.
Then on the first of my last series of sittings, May 29th, I was at once
accosted with the question : " Was it malt you wished me to think
about . . . Maltinc you . . ." (p. 418).
If this has any pertinence at all it is an incident like " Munyon's
Germiside." He never took any Maltine. But when my stepmother
wrote to my brother that father was losing flesh, my brother, seeing
that he was not rightly nourished, at once wrote to father to get some
Maltine and take it. It is probable that he talked about it, but my
stepmother does not recall whether he did or not. It thus appears, so
far as inquiry goes, that morphine was never taken by my father at
all ; that Maltine and the Munyon Remedy had both been specially in
his mind at one time (though I was never aware of the fact) ; that
strychnine was taken by him in connection with the Hyomei ( a fact
wholly forgotten by me), although I did not obtain it for him ; that
Hyomei, a "vapor preparation," was the special medicine that I did
get for him, and that I remembered well, and that a " preparation of
oil " was taken by him, as was entirely unknown to me.
40 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
A few communications, of little ev idential value, except the allusion
to my voice being the last he heard when dying, followed the
attempt to give the medicine in my sitting of December 26th (p. 332),
and then my uncle interrupted. But his place was very soon taken by
my father again with the singular remark (p. 332) : " Yes, Hyslop. I
know who I am. And Annie too," as if amused at the confusion of
my uncle, which was very evident. He then proceeded with the com
munications to me (p. 333).
And long before the sun shall set for you I will give you a full and
complete account of your old father, James. Keep quiet, do not worry
about anything, as I used to say. It does not pay. Remember this ? (S. :
Yes, father, I remember that well.) That, James, was my advice always and
it is still the same. You are not the strongest man you know and health is
important for you. Cheer up now and be quite yourself. (S. : Yes, father,
I shall. I am glad to hear this advice.) Remember it does not pay and life
is too short there for you to spend it in worrying. You will come out all safe
and well and will one day be reunited with us, and we shall meet face to
face and you will know me well. What you cannot have be content without,
health or anything else, but do not worry, and not for me. This is going
to be my life, and you will know all that it is possible fur any one to know.
(S. : Yes, father, I am glad of that. It will be my life here too.) Yes, I
know it, and as we lived there so we will also live here. Devoted you were
to me always, and I have nothing to complain of except your uneasy
temperament and that I will certainly help. Only trust in all that is good,
James, and be contented whilst you stay and I will certainly be near you. I
am a little weary, James, but I will return and recall if possible my
medicine.
The evidences of personal identity are very strong in this whole
passage, though they will not appear so to the general reader, until he
is told the fact that one phrase after another of it is exactly what
my father constantly used to me in life. " Do not worry," " it does
not pay," " life is too short," that we shall be reunited beyond the
grave, are all as natural as life to me. Hundreds of times he has
warned me that I am not so strong as some men. Of course, the
incidents are not so striking as most of those upon which I have
commented, but they reflect a tone of mind toward me that is exactly
as I knew my father, and are suggestive of identity on any theory of
the phenomena whatsoever. It is clear and intelligible, almost too
much so to escape suspicion. But it has too many psychological
points of identity in it to be treated as in any way the prod«ct of
chance.
The sitting for December 27th was opened with some general and
unevidential remarks from my father regarding his condition for com
municating and indications that he had been told by the " control "
that he would have an opportunity to return and communicate with
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 41
Dr. Hodgson in my absence. The dramatic play in this has its
interest, as it involves a question directed to Dr. Hodgson, which was
closely enough associated with me for the communicator to expect that
I would ultimately get the messages. After being assured that he need
"not feel troubled because he could have no further talk" with me at
this time, he began at once to ask about his things that he had taken
with him when he moved from his old home in Ohio :—
James, do you remember what . . . the things I took out West.
(S. : Yes, father.) Well, are they not for you . . . (S. : Some of them
I think are. What ones are for me ?) I wish all the books, every one,
and photos (R. H . : Photos) (S. : Pictures) painting Pictures . . . yes,
every one of those of mine. I took them out West you remember. (8. :
Yes, I remember.) I should have said that I wished I would have had you
have them before now. [Rector explains.] He speaks too rapidly, fearing
he may forget something . . . had said all I wished. Cannot you
send for them. I am sure . . . will give them up. (S. : Do you want
one of the books to touch ?) Yes, very much . My diary, anything, diary
. . . yes, or anything, any one of them. Give me one, James, if
possible. I have something on my mind (p. 335).
There is a curious combination of evidential matter and of appre
ciative reference to the use of the things to which he refers. The first
evidential fact is the allusion to his moving out West. He did this in
1889, and, of course, took all his household goods with him, including
his books and pictures. He had some photos and two or three chromos
which in his parlance might be safely called "paintings." The mention
of his diary is also somewhat pertinent, as he had a day-book in which
he kept both his accounts and various matters usually put down in a
diary, some of the things being directions which I found applying
to the management of the estate after his death. But, in mentioning
the articles here, there is the evident desire that they shall be produced
to " hold him " in the communications. This is a curious recognition
on the "other side" of the conditions for satisfactory communication
which we have learned empirically on this side. Why and how they
affect the results we do not know, but they apparently do as a fact,
absurd as it may seem to us. A little later in the same sitting he
repeats : " Get the pictures ; do you not want them, James ? " (p. 337).
On February 8th he alluded to his habit of "poring over the pages
of his books and writing out little extracts from them in his diary "
(p. 380). This is true except that the extracts which he was accustomed
to make were not written in his account book. He might have kept
them in the diary, but this is now unverifiable. On May 30th he again
asked me if I remembered his library and books, and inquired what had
become of them, saying, " I am sure they are all right wherever they
are, but there are some things on my mind which I must get oft
42 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(p. 434). On June 6th he again asked me about the books, and wanted
to know what I had done with those he had given me (p. 473). Also
on June 8th (p. 490). This will como up later in another connection.
But it is referred to at present in order to exhibit the action of
memory from sitting to sitting.
In the interval between two attempts, December 27th, to give the
strychnine (p. 336) he mentioned a knife which has considerable
evidential importance. He said, " Do you remember the little knife I
used to pick out my nails with . . A -(S. : I am not sure, father.)
The little brown handle one. I had it in my vest and then in coat
pocket. You certainly must remember it. (S. : Was this after you
went out West ?) Yes, I seem to lose part of my recollections between
my absence and return, just before I had this change, and the cap I
used to wear—the cap . . . the cap I used to wear. And this
I have lost too" (p. 336).
I knew nothing of this knife, but wrote to my stepmother,
brother, and sister, without telling them what I was doing, to know
if father ever had such a knife, and received word from all three of
them that he did and that they had it yet. I then wrote to know
what he used it for, and received the answer that he used it for paring
his nails and various purposes about the house. But it seems that he
did not carry it in either his vest or coat pocket, but in his trousers
pocket. It is interesting, however, in this connection to remark his
own spontaneous intimation of a defective memory.
A little later, in this same sitting, he recurred to the knife in the
following manner. " Ask Willie about the knife. (S. : Yes, father, I will
ask Willie about it, but there is one other boy who will know better than
he.) I do not . . . George. (S. : No, not George.) Rob. Did you
ask me to tell the other . . . Roberts (?) Robert. (S. : That is good,
father, but not the one. Yes, Robert is the right name, but the one that
will remtmber the knife is a younger boy.) " Rector then added to me :
" He [referring to IinperatorJ will explain it to him, and I will get his
answer soon " (p. 337.) A few minutes later father returned to the matter
as follows: "Do you mean F James? (S. : Yes, father, I mean
F.,if you can tell the rest.) Yes, I can remember very well. F R A D ('i) "
(p. 337).
The names of my brothers, Willie, George, and Robert, alwars-
called Rob., were correct, and the " D " in the original automatic
writing might justifiably be read as a combination of N and K, which
would make the name of the younger brother, Frank, correct and also the
answer to my implied question. But we decided to treat the writing
as a confused letter D with the doubt against instead of for us. The
right attempt, however, was evidently made, and came nearly enough
succeeding to indicate what was intended. The name of Willie had
been spontaneously given in the first sitting (p. 309) and I had tried to
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 43
deceive the communicator in the same sitting (p. 307), but the names of
Rob. and Frank were given here for the first time.
On February 8th in Dr. Hodgson's sitting for me, after alluding to
his pen and paper cutter (Cf. pp. 379, 380), which were contemporary
articles with the knife, he asked Dr. Hodgson : " Perhaps you will
recall my asking for my knife" (p. 378). This is a very pretty
illustration of the unity of consciousness and association with con
temporary articles, and a memory of what had been mentioned before,
Dr. Hodgson knowing nothing of the relation between the knife and
the articles with which it was associated. The most important points
in connection with the knife were that my father specifically mentions
it, that he called it a brown handled one, that he mentioned its special
use, and that all the facts were unknown to me.
In regard to the cap incident, I said in a short note at the time
that I knew nothing about it, and I could have added that I did not
care, as I regarded it as absurd—a mere automatism. It was only
after it had been mentioned a second time that I made inquiries about
it. It turned out such an important incident that I must narrate the
facts very fully.
On February 16th my father sent to me through Dr. Hodgson the
question: "Do you recall a little black skull-cap I used to wear, and
■what has become of it. I have looked and looked for it, but do not
see it anywhere about. Answer this for me, James, when you come
again " (p. 387).
I made inquiries of my aunt whether father ever wore such a cap
in his early life, and receiving a negative reply (p. 387), dropped
the matter. But on February 22nd he said to Dr. Hodgson : " Did
you remind James of my cap ! " and Dr. Hodgson replied : " Yes. He
does not remember it." My father then said : " Not remember it 1 Ask
Nannie. You see I was in the West, far from him for some time, and
my habits of dress and my doings may not be known to him, but
the rest may remember, if he does not " (p. 406).
This is a very remarkable passage, every word of it being true,
except the name Nannie, which the context led me to suspect might
be a mistake for Maggie, the name of my stepmother. It led to careful
inquiries about the cap. I found that my stepmother had made him a
black skull-cap to wear at night because he had complained of a cold
head on cold nights, having been very bald for many years. But he did
not wear the cap more than a few times. It could not be found as no one
knows what becauie of it. It was at this point that it suddenlv occurred
to me that the " Nannie " was a mistake for my stepmother, as I had
found some truth in the incident and observed that the word "aunt,"
which had been used for my aunt of that name, had been omitted.
There had been some earlier references to the name " Nannie " without
44 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
the prefix " aunt " (p. 388). I therefore suspected that we had here a
distinction between the aunt and my stepmother, and it became a later
problem to settle this matter, which I postponed as long as possible
with the hope that her name would ultimately be given correctly with
out suggestion from me. On May 29th he alluded to the cap again
without mentioning my stepmother, and he referred to my brother as
the one with whom he had left it " Do you remember a small
cap I used to wear occasionally, and I left it, I think, with Francis.
(R. H. : Francis?) [Hand dissents.] Fred, F R E. I mean
Fredrick (?) [S. shakes his head negatively.] No, not that, but
with F." (p. 425). My brother Francis, always called Frank in
nickname for Francis, his correct name, was at home when the cap
was made, but there is no reason to suppose that it was left with him
any more than with my stepmother or any one else. The chief interest
in this incident is the mention of it a-s if it had not been spoken of
before. The assumption is all along made that I ought to know
about the cap, when as a fact I knew nothing whatsoever regarding
it, so far as I can ascertain, until told after the mention of it in this
record. Some features of this case will come up again when considering
the name of my stepmother (p. 69). It is important here only as repre
senting an incident of which I knew or remembered nothing, and was
apparently given for the main purpose of identifying himself very
clearly ; but it only happened in the end to supply any service for this
object, though—in the first passage in which it aroused my attention,
namely, that in which he alluded to my ignorance of his habits after
moving West (p. 406),—it was connected with so much truth that I
needed only to know the facts and to confirm my conjecture regarding
the intended meaning of the name " Nannie " in order to find in this
passage a strong incident for personal identity.
Returning to December 27th, just after alluding to the name of
my brother George in the knife incident (p. 337) my father took him
up for some further very pertinent communications. He began :—
" Do you hear me . . . what I told you about George ? (S. : Yes, you
mean before.) Yes, I . . . (S. : Yes, I remember.) I had a great deal to
think of there, James. (S. : Yes, father, you did.) And the least said the
sooner mended. Hear? (S. : Yes, father, I hear.) Do you understand?
(S. : Yes, father, I understand.) I will work now, and unceasingly as I can
for him " (p. 337). The pertinent parts of this message are the reference
to the " much to think of there " and the phrase " the least said the sooner
mended." My notes explain both of them (p. 348). Then after he had
attempted to give the name of Frank in response to my desire for it, he
made a number of relevant observations, generally very pertinent though
not specifically evidential, such as the wish to "step in and hear me at tl*e
college," an explanation of why he had done so much for me, and finally his
proposal to "right matters to his own liking, especially with the boys"
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena.
(p. 338). My father did have much anxiety in connection with my brother
George, and as I learned later from my aunt, the phrase, " the least said the
sooner mended," was a common expression before my time in the family,
and used to describe situations of the kind indicated here, and which was
fully exemplified in the prudential method that father always employed in
his correspondence with me about my brother (p. 349).
At this point in the communications we interfered to read to my
father some statements that I had prepared beforehand for the
purpose. The arrangements for this had to be made with Rector, so
that he would understand what I wanted. I had prepared some
explanation of my reticence as influenced by the desire to avoid making
suggestions, and some items indicating my general object in the experi
ments and its relations to the general beliefs of my father, in order
partly to reveal my identity more clearly than I had done, and partly
to call out some expression from him that would indicate what I knew
of his religious life, as none of it up to this point had revealed itself.
When the proposition was made to Rector, he explained at once that
my father could get the messages only in fragments now, and that we
should have to repeat it later (p. 338). As soon as this was under
stood we placed the accordion on the table to " hold him," and I began
to read my message slowly to the hand. I first explained why I had
not asked him many questions, saying that I had desired to
avoid making suggestions, when I received the very appreciative
answer : " Ah, yes, I remember the difficulties." In my conversation
with him on this subject and the early Piper reports, I had explained
to him fully the danger of suggesting our answers by our questions,
when experimenting with mediums. I then proceeded, and in refer
ring to the ultimate significance of work likely to prove a future life,
said, with the purpose of exciting his religious consciousness, "You
know it is the work of Christ and you will remember that I always
said that I wished to live the life of Christ, even if I was not a
believer." As soon as this sentence was finished, and before I could go
on with the next sentence, Rector took the hand away, and, as if
having said to the communicator, " do you hear that 1 " quickly wrote :
" Perfectly. Yes, that is surely James." My statement, of course,
could suggest the reply, but it is interesting as having been said to
Rector and not to me, and comes through, either as an automatism, or
as a message whose value Rector could appreciate and deliver for our
purpose. I went on and closed with the desire that he should work on
the " other side," as I should on this, to do the work of Christ. He
said : " Yes. / mil and unceasingly. You know my thoughts well,
and you also know what my desires were before entering this life
And you also know whom I longed to meet and what I longed to
do for you . . whom I longed to meet he says. (S. : Yes, father,
4G [part
./. //. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I know well.) Good. Keep it in mind, James, and I will push from
this side while you call from yours, and we will sooner or later come
to a more complete understanding " (p. 340).
The pertinence of this is the fact that father had always believed
he would meet Christ face to face after death, and was very much hurt
when he found that I could no longer accept the beliefs and hopes of
orthodoxy. Presently I asked him directly whether he remembered
much of his religious life (p. 310), and he replied: "Yes, I think I do
nearly everything, and my views whereas they were not just correct in
everything, yet they were more or less correct, and I have found a
great many things as I had pictured them in my own earthly mind.
.Since Christ came to the earthly world there has been an almost
constant revelation of God and His power over all" (p. 341). He
then asked me if I remembered our conversation about Swedenborg,
which I have already mentioned, and to which I refer again for the
sake of the pertinence of its connection. The passage just quoted,
while it contains no incident that is evidential, has a tone about
it that is not telepathic, as it reflects alleged facts neither in my
mind nor in his terrestrial experience, but which would be quite natural
if the spiritistic theory be correct. It is perhaps not beyond the
power of a secondary consciousness to produce the like, and I refer
to the incidents only for the psychological unity of purpose in them and
their appreciation of the situation, with occasional touches of identity
in them, too slight to be marked by any one but myself. But compare
with this the whole passage in which the reference to the hymn,
" Nearer My God to Thee " occurs, where also there is marked the
same apparent change of opinions held in life (p. 389). For a peculiar
interest attaching to the words " push " and " call " the reader may
consult the notes on page 340.
After the allusion to Swedenborg, he immediately reverted to the
subject of my reticence, and said very pertinentlv : " I am glad you have
not given me any suggestions for your sake, but it has perplexed me a
little, and at times seemed unlike yourself. I faintly recall the trouble
on the subject of spirit return." After what I said above, the pertinence
of this needs no explanation. Immediately following this, I asked him
who was with us on that occasion, and he replied that he did not
understand my question. I repeated it, and he said it was in New
York, evidently still misunderstanding my query. I was living in New
York at the time. I dropped the matter, as I saw there was some
confusion about it, and in the attempt to mention a few moments later
those whom he had not yet mentioned, he said : " No, I think 1 have
sent all except sister. (S. : Yes, I think perhaps you are right. One
thing I had not understood. Now which sister is this?) I mean
Nan. R [P ?] Mannie, and after my acknowledgment added "Give my
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 47
love to her, of course." Then, after a sentence or two to myself,
said : " Tell Eliza too ; both. And tell them to believe and trust in
God always, and I will often bring comfort to Eliza in her sorrow "
(p. 342). My father's sister Eliza had lost her husband very suddenly
by an accident just a month previous to the sittings, and he had been a
communicator in the second sitting (p. 314). The other sister, Nannie,
had also lost her husband almost as suddenly just two months before.
But I received absolutely no communications from him. But there is
some reason to suppose that the " Nan " immediately changed to
"Mannie" was an attempt to say "Maggie'' (Cf. pp. 312, 365), which
was the name of my stepmother, and which would have been the
correct answer to my question. It is equally possible that both my
aunt Nannie and my stepmother were intended, though the use of
" both " and the reference to his sister Eliza a little later is against
this and perhaps in favour of the reference to his sister Nannie alone.
Immediately after the allusion to my two aunts the record proceeds :
" Bo you remember the glasses (S. : What glasses ?) and where they
are? She has them, I think. (S. : Yes. Who has them?) Nani.
(S. : No, not Nannie.) Ani. (S. : What glasses did you ask about 1)
M . . . Mnni. (S. : Whom did you leave them with ?) I am thinking.
It was Eliza. I do not think I said just right." The sitting had
then to come to a close before anything more could be said (p. 343).
My father died in the house of my aunt Eliza, and he did leave
his spectacles there. Myself and stepmother Maggie took them from
there after his death, but in saying that he did not " think he said
just right," he evidently had in mind the mention of my stepmother
as the person with whom he left them, which would also have been
correct. Had the statement been : " I left them with Maggie at
Eliza's," it would have been exactly the truth, which is only vaguely
hinted at here. The possible meaning of " Nani," " Ani," and " Mnni "
in their connection with Maggie is indicated later (p. 365-6).
It may be a matter of some interest to the reader that at the close
of this sitting, as Mrs. Piper came out of the trance, she uttered the
full name of my father, " Robert Hyslop."
On February 7th Br. Hodgson opened his series of sittings on my
behalf. They are full of an interest additional to the evidential one
for personal identity. The dramatic play of personality, which I shall
discuss later, is a most striking characteristic of them. The first
four of then are not so plentiful in specific evidence for identity, but
still have sufficient to show that we were dealing with the same con
sciousness. Two or three very important matters occurred in them,
and the last had as significant incidents as any of the sittings which
I attended personally.
4N [part
J. H. Byslop, Ph.D.
After the usual preliminaries in the first sitting of this series,
Rector remarked that if Dr. Hodgson had no more questions, he would
bring my father to him at once. A singular piece of dramatic play
followed, in which a colloquy occurred on the "other side," indicating
a misunderstanding on my father's part as to the person to whom he
was to communicate. He appears to have thought he was to communi
cate to me as before, and the matter had to be explained to him, the
details of the " transcendental " conversation appearing in the record (p.
370). As soon as he understood the situation, he began with a refer
ence to the Swedenborg incident to say that he was glad that I under
stood him, Dr. Hodgson some time before having sent my word to him
through Rector that he was right about it (pp.370, 341). Then he
went on with a message for me. The first was : " I am thinking of
the time some years ago when I went into the mountains for a change
with him, and the trip we had to the lake after we left the camp, and
I have often thought of this." There follows immediately a long
account of an accident to the train and engine on one trip out West in
which he said " we or I was caught." The description of the accident
is very detailed. But father never took any trip with me to the
mountains, and the allusion to such a trip has to be set down as false,
though my note shows how slightly the statement would have to be
altered to be true (Note 26, p. 408). But no accident occurred on any
trip that I or any one else can remember, though I do remember a
delay on the trip in 1861.
It was necessary after the long account of the accident to give him
the spectacle case to " hold him." He recognised it, though this fact
had no evidential value. But there was a very pretty piece of dramatic
play connected with it. Rector saw the effect of the effort to describe
the accident and asked for a book. Dr. Hodgson gave the tin spectacle
case, saying that this was all he had with him. Through Rector the
recognition was made and the case called a "spectacle case," instead of
" glasses case," in correction of the latter, the former being his usual
name for it. This, however, is a slight matter, but when he said
directly : " I am quite sure of what I am saying to you, my friend. I
think Nannie will remember this also very well. You might speak to
her about it or ask James to do so," he indicated a correct appreciation
of the situation, and was correct as to the source for confirmation
of his statements about the existence of the case for years in the
family—supposing that this was the usual name intended for my
stepmother (Cf. pp. 69,366). The rest of the sitting was taken up with
an explanation by Dr. Hodgson of the nature of the experiment and
its object, so that my father could better understand it. He expressed
his appreciation of my desire and promised to satisfy it. The sitting
then came to an end.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 49
The sitting of February 8th opens with communications from
Imperator, Rector, and Doctor, before Rector takes his place as
amanuensis in the intended communications from my father. The
reason for this is not explained on this occasion, but it is sometimes
alleged that Imperator " comes in," or writes for the purpose of
"restoring the light," as the agency by which they communicate is
called. In this connection a curious statement is made by Imperator,
just before the communications of my father begin. Through Rector
he said that it would be impossible to answer for Mr. W. on that day,
as it would necessitate using too much light, and they must give this
for "this kind gentleman, viz., Mr. Hyslop." The messages from my
father then began, as follows :—
Good morning, James. I am glad to be here again. I am your father
still who is trying to help you find me. I recall quite vividly some few
recollections which I think will interest you somewhat. I remember some
years ago of sending George some of the photos taken of the library, and
he said he would return copies after he had finished them. I also recall
the disturbance and trouble I had with one of my eyes, the left one. Do
you not remember this and the little so-called . . . what . . .
P . . . A . . . yes I hear. Pad. Pad. I had a peculiar mark which you
will recall, at the back of the ears [ear ?] (p. 377).
The first matter of interest in this passage is the evident supposition
of my father that he is communicating with me directly, and he does
not discover until later (p. 379) that he is talking to Dr. Hodgson.
But he shows a memory of the conversation with Dr. Hodgson in the
previous sitting, where the object of the sittings was explained, and
the incidents here mentioned are a clear effort to fulfil the promise
there made. But the first one has little truth in it. Father had no
" library " proper. He kept his books and did his reading in what
he called, with everybody in his neighbourhood, the sitting-room. I
find in these sittings, however, that " library " is uniformly employed
for just this room in his house. But he never had any photographs
of it taken. He had sent my brother, on the occasion of the latter's
marriage, photos of himself and our mother, which hung in a room
upstairs, and my brother has them yet. But there was nothing said
or expected about getting copies of them returned. This was in 1884.
It is worth remarking in this connection that a younger brother about
this time was engaged in canvassing for the reproduction of photo
graphs, and secured many such from various persons to be returned
after finishing them. I cannot ascertain whether he had any of father's
for the purpose. There is nothing in the message, however, that would
lead me to suppose that this was meant. We can only conjecture its
possibility from what we know of the general sources of confusion.
The disturbance with the left eye and the spot near the left
ear were more pertinent. In response to my inquiry about the
E
50 [part
J. H, Ilyslop, Ph.D.
trouble with his eyes, which I had connected with what was said about
the death scene, and about any marks behind the ears, as indicated
here, I received from my stepmother a negative answer. But when I
read the record over to her this summer she noticed that the statement
was with reference to the left eye and at once and decidedly confirmed it,
stating that he often took his spectacles off and complained of trouble
with the left eye. She still said, however, that there was no mark
behind his ears, but incidentally remarked that there was a spot or
mole in front of the left ear and concealed by his side whiskers. Of
the existence of this I never knew, as I had never known my father
without whiskers. One incident may then be taken as wholly correct
and the other as nearly so.
Dr. Hodgson had asked him to tell what was in the tin box or
spectacle case, and he remarked after a pause that he used to put his
pen in it, but immediately corrected the statement, which was false,
and said that it was where he kept his " paper cutter," which was also
false. I had supposed that the allusion to a " paper cutter " was absurd
in any case, as I knew that father's reading never required such an
implement. He had not bought a book for forty years and none of his
papers required cutting, so I rejected the allusion as false. But on
inquiry I found that my brother Frank had made him a small paper
cutter for opening his letters and that he usually carried it in his vest
pocket. But his pen was actually in this tin box at the sitting and
the box had not yet been opened. He then made an allusion to his
knife, which has already been quoted, and asked to go away for a
minute and return (p. 378).
As soon as he returned, which was in a few moments evidently, as
little writing had been done in the meantime, he at once seemed
clearer, and recognised that it was not I to whom he was communica
ting : " Here I am. Yes, I see, you are not really James, but his
friend. Glad I am to know you. (R. H. : I am very glad). Yes, I
remember I used to have this little case on my desk a great deal.
Yes. And I am sure I used to place my spectacles in it. Yes,
and some time my paper cutter " (p. 379). It was probably not
this but the leather spectacle case that he kept on his desk at
times. But he kept his gold spectacles in this tin case, and the
case in his trousers pocket, I believe the trousers that he wore
■on special occasions such as going to church, etc. But he never
put his paper cutter in the case, at least, according to the memory
of any one living. A moment later Dr. Hodgson asked him again to
say what was in the box and the reply was, "Looks like my glasses."
His gold glasses were in it, but the statement, though correct, is not
important, as it might be guessed from the nature of the case. No
clairvoyance is indicated by the experiment.
XLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 51
His favourite book, Anderson's "Lectures on Theology," was shortly
afterwards presented, and before the title of it was mentioned to him
there was a confused attempt at giving it in the word Ferdinand.
Then Dr. Hodgson asked him the question which I had sent about
other medicines than those already mentioned. He was then given
until the next sitting to think it over, and after some communications
from Prudens and Rector, the sitting came to a close with but a few
evidential incidents from my father. But the dramatic play through
out was a most interesting feature of the sitting, as it marked a
singular contrast between the intelligent and clear conversation of the
trance personalities and the difficulties and confusions attending the
efforts of my father;—a fact of some importance as showing that we
cannot attribute the difficulties of intelligent communication to the
-subjective condition of the medium, for in this case we should have to
expect the confusion of a communicator coinciding with that of the
trance personalities, which seems never to occur in any way reflecting
on the spiritistic theory.
The next sitting was on February 16th. It opened correctly
enough with an attempt to mention the medicine to which the
previous day's question had reference, and which he had taken in
adoption to what I had been told ; but the medicine named, morphine,
was a mistake. Some further attempt followed to name the contents
of the spectacle case, the spectacles being named, but nothing else.
While doing this, he recalled the fact that he had often heard of Dr.
Hodgson while he was " in the body," a fact that was true, as I had
mentioned Dr. Hodgson in the conversations discussed (p. 385). Some
further conversation followed with Dr. Hodgson, but it is of too little
evidential value to be repeated here. It is intelligible and consistent
with the communications generally, but has no weight. Just as Rector
remarked that he seemed " quite clear just now " and expressed the
desire to have him asked another question that I had sent on, Dr.
Hodgson put it :—" Do you remember Samuel Cooper, and can you say
anything about him 1 " There had been some difficulty between the
two men and an alienation for years followed, and I hoped to bring my
father's mind back to his old home in Ohio by it. The answer was
absurd and false with reference to Samuel Cooper. But the sequel
showed that there were some facts in the answer that were relevant
to a Joseph Cooper. As the incidents connected with the name finally
have very considerable importance I shall group together all that
pertain to this question. The answer began and was repeated later :—
He refers to the old friend of mine in the West. I remember the visits
we used to make to each other well, and the long talks we had concerning
philosophical topics. Let me think this over, James, and I will answer it
completely and tell you all about him (p. 386).
b 2
52 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Not a word of this was true with reference to Samuel Cooper.
But at the next sitting, February 20th, the question was repeated to
Rector to take to him (p. 394). At the opening of the next sitting,
which was on February 22nd, he said (p. 397) :—
And the name Cooper is very clear to me also as I had a friend by the
name who was of philosophical turn of mind, and for whom I had great
respect, with whom I had some friendly discussion and correspon
dence. I had also several tokens [?] which I recollect well. One was
a photo, to which I referred when James was present, and in my collec
tion, among my collection. Do you recall, James, the one to which I refer ?
I know this clearly, and I have met him here. He is, if you recall, on this
side of life with me, and came some years before I did. I liked much his
philanthropic views, and as you will remember, a close companionship with
him. I am too weak to remain, will return in a moment.
Among my collection of letters you will also find several of his which I
preserved. I remember a discussion on the subject of religion with him
some years ago. Doubtless you are thinking of this also. There are many
things I can recall concerning him later. Look for my letters, also the photo
to which I refer, James.
At the sitting of May 29th, which was the first of my last series
of personal experiments, the several questions left over from Dr.
Hodgson's sittings were approached spontaneously, and after Dr.
Hodgson was sent out of the room father began :—
1 am here again. I am trying to think of the Cooper school and his
interest there. Do you remember how my throat troubled me. (S. : Yes.>
I am not troubled about it, only thinking. (S. : I am glad to hear that.) I
remember my old friend Cooper very well and his interests, and he is witli
me now. (S. : Yes, I am glad to hear it. Tell about him.) He is with me
now. He maintained the same ideas throughout. And perhaps you will
recall a journey U D we took together (p. 420).
On May 30th again he said : " I have talked it over with my old
friend Cooper, and we both agree that we will very clearly speak our
minds here. We are the same friends to-day that we always were, and
James also " (p. 427). This statement only made confusion worse con
founded from my standpoint. The James mentioned I could not
identify, but Rector went on : " Let me speak, R. There is a gentleman
on our side named James also. Kindly do not get the one here confused
with the one in the body " (p. 427). This is an interesting piece of
dramatic play. I thought of my uncle James Carruthers, but, as
my uncle James McClellan communicated later, it might refer to him,
though there is no evidence here for this, and, so far as pertinence is
concerned, might be James anybody (Cf. p.' 445). It is appropriate
to add, however, that I ascertained from his living daughters that my
uncle James McClellan was a warm admirer and most probably a
personal friend of this Dr. Cooper (Cf. p. 427). In the sitting of
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 53
May 31st, near the close (p. 445), he said again, coming to the subject
spontaneously :—
I want to tell you all . . . Samuel Cooper. You remember you asked
me what I knew of him. Did you think I was no longer friend of his ? I had
several letters which he wrote to me concerning our difference of opinion,
and I think they were with you. Have you got thein 1 (S. : I shall look
them up. Do you remember any other differences with him ?) I think I do
on the subject of this very question, his religious views.
Immediately following, father begins to ask about his family, and
then remarks that he is getting confused and leaves (p. 445). On
June 1st (p. 452), just after my sister Annie gave a long communica
tion, my father suddenly broke in :—
Yea, I am back again now. I heard you say it was strange I could not
tell you more about Cooper. What did you mean by that ? (S. : I wanted
to know if you remembered anything about the dogs killing sheep ?)
[Excitement in hand.] Oh, I should think I did. Yes, I do very well, but I
have forgotten all about it. This was what we had the discussion about, and
I made it unpleas[ant] for him. Yes, very well, James, but just what you
asked me this for I could not quite make out as he was no relation of mine. I
remember it all very well and if I could have recalled what you were getting
at I would have tried to tell you, but I see him seldom, and I referred to
him only because you asked me about him. (S. : Yes. All right, father, I
wanted it for my scientific purpose.) Oh yes. Why did you not just remind
me of it? Well, I will work for you and to remind you of other things
quite as good. But don't hurry me, and in time I can talk to you just as I
used to.
The excitement in the hand and the reference to the unpleasantness
were perfectly pertinent, though it left all else that had been connected
with the name of Cooper in its original obscurity. This Samuel Cooper's
dog had taken part in killing some of father's sheep, and some un
pleasantness arose in connection with the shooting of the dog, and
the two remained unfriendly for years, when they were finally recon
ciled in a beautiful manner a short time before Mr. Cooper's death.
But it is strange that this incident in their lives was not recalled at
once by my father.
When I went West to look up some incidents in these sittings, I
was explaining the confusion and error in these messages about Mr.
Cooper, and my mother remarked that father was well acquainted with
Dr. Joseph Cooper, of Alleghany Theological Seminary, and that he had
probably corresponded with him at one time. She added that father
always spoke of him in the highest terms, and made it a point to see him
when he could at the synodical meetings of the United Presbyterian
Church. I probably have heard of the man, but I certainly knew nothing
of father's interest in him, and still less of certain incidents in the
54 [part
/. H. Hyslup, Ph.D.
communications of great pertinence. The allusion to his being a friend
out West is not strictly true ; but father knew of the Cooper Memorial
School at Sterling, Kansas, which was built in memory of this Dr.
Cooper (Note 39, p. 499). Father's trip to Kansas with my stepmother
was a few years before the building of this Memorial School.i All the
language applied to his being of a philosophical turn of mind is strictly
correct, and from what I learn of his opinions and character he was
just the man for father to correspond with about the time of the for
mation of the U. P. Church in 1858. What had therefore appeared
originally as nonsense and false turns out to have a pertinence that
was wholly unexpected, especially as a means for examining the claims
of telepathy. The reference to " tokens " is very interesting. They
were little coin-like pieces of metal that were used at the communion
services of the church of which my father was a member. This was a
name by which they were always called. My father was the ruling
elder, and it was his duty to keep these tokens in security. When the
congregation at his old home was dissolved he put the tokens away in
a chamois skin bag, and after his death they came into my possession.
I kept them as a memento. The connection in which they are men
tioned is the most interesting part of the message (See Note 29, p.410).
To return to Dr. Hodgson's sitting of February 16th, this first
allusion to the Cooper incidents was followed by the second mention of
his skull-cap and then by an inquiry sent through Rector for "a special
pen or quill, as he calls it, with which he used to write " (p. 387). In
a moment he said : " I recall a thin black coat or dressing gown affair
I used to wear mornings, I can see myself sitting in my old armchair
before the open fire in the library reading over the paper. Look at me
there, James, and see me in the gown I refer to and answer me."
After some allusions to me he said : " As I grew older, we grew together,
i.e., companionable, as we were much together, and Nannie I often
think of her and her faithfulness to me. Did you realise that my
bronchial trouble disturbed me much?" (p. 387).
My father used a quill pen constantly in earlier life, and before he
got the gold pen which was in the spectacle case, I remember his
making quill pens for me. My stepmother says he did have a thin
black coat for morning wear in the house, and I remember him well in
his armchair before the open fire reading his paper. In fact, he did
i The statement made in the New York Independent (Vol. LIL, p. 750), that my
father had visited the Cooper Memorial School with my stepmother in 1884 is incor
rect. My stepmother knew of this institution, and in my conversation with her
about the Cooper incidents I misunderstood an oral statement about the visit to
Kansas in 1884 with father to be that they had visited this school. She corrected my
error soon after reading the article. The " Cooper School " was not built until several
years later (Cf. p. 500).
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 5 5
all his reading in it. But I knew nothing of a " thin black coat " con
nected with his habits. I find from my stepmother that he did use such
a coat as here described during the last year or two of his life when I
knew little or nothing of his personal habits. We did grow more com
panionable as he grew older, and were much together when we were
together at all. My visits were not frequent after 1889. He became
more reconciled with my free-thought, as he found that there were
points of agreement between us that he had hardly expected. The
allusion to the faithfulness of Nannie is very pertinent, assuming that
the name is a mistake for my stepmother, as later developments
unequivocally indicate is the case. He was an object of her special
care for the last six or seven years, and more or less for twenty
years of his life. The allusion to bronchial trouble explains itself
after my statement regarding his cancer of the larynx. It is interest
ing also to remark that the black coat, the reading of his paper in the
armchair and the open fire, the bronchial trouble and the black skull
cup were contemporaneous with the time when he had special reason
to think of my stepmother in the manner indicated here.
Shortly afterwards he put a question regarding my sister Annie, and
there followed some very remarkable passages between him and Dr.
Hodgson, that I must give in full :—
Do you remember your sister Annie ? (Did James have a sister Annie ?)
Yes. (All right. I will tell him.) She is here with me, and she is calling
to you. (Mr. Hyslop.) Yes, I hear you. What do you wish 'i
(It is curious. I know your son James very well, and we tire interested
together in this work. I have a sister Annie also, and she is still in the
body, and I think your views in the body were probably not unlike my own
father's, and you might be interested to meet my father over there, and you
can talk to him about James, and perhaps he will tell you something about
me. I think you and my father would get along very well.)
Well, I am glad to know this, and I will surely look him up [Cf. p. 389.]
but you will remember one thing, and that is that my Annie is not yours.
(Yes, I understand. She's with you.) Yes, and I will surely find your father
and know him. These kind friends will help me to find him. (Yes, they will :
they will introduce you to him. I shall be very pleased if they will.)
Was he very orthodox do you think 1 (Fairly so.) Well, there is no need
for it here. However, we won't discuss that until later, when we know
each other better. (He was a Wesleyan Methodist.) Well this, of course,
was more or less orthodox. (Yes. Oh yes, indeed.) Exactly, well we will
get on finely soon. I know this perfectly well. But I must get accustomed
to this method of speech, and see how I can best express my thoughts to
you. (Yes.) I am now thinking of my own things and concerns. I can
preach myself very mil. Ask my son if this is not so. [Cf. p. 432.] I
recall many things which I would gladly have changed if it had been as clear
to me as it is now. I wish I could take my knife a moment, as it will .
[Knife from parcel C, given to hand.] It will help me when I return to you.
56 /. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I do not think I can say more to you now. (Well, I am very pleased to
have had this talk with you, and I am sure that James will be glad to read
what you told me about the medicine and gown and reading the paper and
so on.) Well, I have so many things to say of much greater importance
in a way later, when I can fully and clearly express myself. I am anxious
to do much for him. (Yes.) Will you excuse me. I must go. (Yes,
certainly. Good-bye for the present. Thank you very much.) [Excite
ment.] There is one tune going through my mind. Listen. Nearer my
God to Tlue. Hyslop." The sitting then came to an end (pp. 389-390).
The mention of my sister Annie was pertinent, and the conversa
tion with Dr. Hodgson perfectly appreciative and intelligible, as every
one acquainted with Calvinism and Wesleyanism will recognise. My
father was a Calvinist. It was a curious episode to ask if Dr.
Hodgson's father was orthodox, after Dr. Hodgson expressed the
probability that his father and mine would agree in their views, and
the statement, in reply to Dr. Hodgson's characterisation of his father
as a Wesleyan, that this was "more or less orthodox" could be treated
as a mediumistic echo of Dr. Hodgson's " fairly so " in reply to father's
question. Hence, when I read the quotation from the hymn " Nearer
my God to Thee," which will appear so pertinent to readers generally, it
can be imagined how opposed to personal identity it was, if I say that
my father was always strictly opposed to hymn-singing in any form of
worship. He belonged to a denomination which would not tolerate it.
The quotation thus appeared to me to be a fine case of mediumistic
interpretation from the secondary consciousness, which we might
suppose familiar enough with Wesleyanism to venture on some hymn
after allusion to that creed. There was the lone allusion by father to
his " preaching" himself which suggested identity and which was true of
him, but not as a lay preacher, for he would not accept any right to
preach as that term is usually understood, until the " laying on of the
hands " was performed on some one specially prepared for the work.
But the church which he attended could not have services all the year
round, and as he would not allow us to attend any other church service
for many years, and until his own church was dissolved, he would read
a sermon to us or comment on a chapter in the Bible on Sundays when
we had no preaching, and he called this a substitute for the sermon.
But when calling my stepmother's attention to the terrible way in
which the allusion to this hymn told against my father's personal
identity, she decidedly agreed with my judgment, but innocently
remarked, without seeing the point, that father had a special dislikefor
this very hymn, and used often to express his sur1rrise that orthodox
people could siny a Unitarian hymn ! The discovery of this fact,
absolutely unknown to me, completely changes the whole colouring of
the conversation. This, together with the allusion to his preaching,
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 57
explains the reference to what he " would have gladly changed if it
had been as clear as it is now," and also the expression that there
was ." no need of orthodoxy " there. There is thus a distinct under
current of changed and consistent conviction throughout it all, with
the two evidential facts of his " preaching " and of the reference to the
hymn that ought naturally to be suggested in this connection, and
when his aversion to it is known in connection with this evident
change of feeling, it turns into one of the most remarkable passages
in the record (Of. pp. 340, 424).
Its importance and cogency are very much strengthened by father's
spontaneous statement at the opening of his communications at my
last sitting, June 8th (p. 490). He addressed Dr. Hodgson as follows :
" I know your father very well. (R. H. : I am very pleased that you have
made his acquaintance.) I find our minds were not quite the same
when on earth, but our ideas of God were." This is undoubtedly
correct in its import, and shows an interesting memory adjusted
to the situation. But it contradicts the impression that Dr.
Hodgson's language on that occasion was calculated to make in expres
sing the likelihood that their views would agree. I could have said at
the time, had I been present, that they would not agree.
At Dr. Hodgson's sitting of February 20th, following the one that
I have been discussing, the first incident regarded the Munyon's
Germicide which I have already mentioned. Then a long conversation
took place between Rector and Dr. Hodgson regarding the best way to
conduct the experiments with my father. When this was over, the
questions about Samuel Cooper and the strychnine were repeated, and
the spectacle case was put into the hand again. Some of the same
references to paper-cutter, etc., that were made before were given again,
and mention made of a writing pad, some " number rests," and two
bottles that used to stand on his desk, one of them round and the other
square. My mother did not recall all of these at first, owing probably
to the nature of my questions, but did afterwards, and my brother
remembers the bottles, one an ink and the other a mucilage bottle
distinctly. The writing pad was correct and the " number [of] rests " if
they refer to the shelves on his desk, used as rests, is correct. But
nothing more of importance occurred in this sitting.
The next sitting by Dr. Hodgson was held on February 22nd. The
first references were to the medicine, a photo and the Cooper incident,
already discussed. After closing this he began telling about a cane,
which, though the story seems much confused, issues in such an impor
tant incident that it must be given at length.
Now what can I do for you ? Do you remember the stick I used to carry,
with the turn in the end, on which I carved my initials ? If so, what
have you done with it ? They are in the end. (Yes, I understand.) I used
58 [part
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
to use it for emphasising expression occasionally. [Hand strikes pencil on
book several times.] (Thumping down 1 ) [Hand keeps repeating a turning
motion.] Yes, he turns it about and then carelessly drops it . . . the
end of it. Understand ? (Yes. I think so. ) If not, speak now before he
becomes in any way confused. [This was Rector's statement to Dr. Hodgson,
but father proceeds] James. [The hand was apparently listening to spirit
and I turned to arrange some sheets of paper on the floor.] Look, friend
[said Rector] . . . Do you wish to go to the college this A. M. ? If so
I will remain here . . . understand ? [The hand between each word of
the first sentence above stopped writing and made a turn, somewhat like the
motion that the hand would make in wiping once round the bottom of a
basin ending palm up.] (Rector, now, in this way ?) Wait [?] [Hand turns
to spirit, then to me] (Rector, that way ?) [I read the sentence over,
imitating the movements of the hand] Yes (with a twirl of the stick ?)
nervously. This is almost identical with his gestures. He is amused at our
description, friend, and seems to vaguely understand our imitation. Draws
it across his so-called knee, lets it fall by his side, still holding on to the
turned end. Hears sounds of music, to which he listens attentively, with
the exception of keeping time with the smaller end of his stick (p. 397).
When I first read this, I recalled a cane with a " turn" in it, which
I had given father myself at the request of my aunt Nannie, who
furnished the money and wished her name concealed in the affair,
telling me that the one he used was broken, as she reminded me since
this sitting. But I never knew father to carve his initials on anything.
I wrote to my stepmother to know if he had carved his initials on his
cane, and received an emphatic negative for reply. No one seems to
have recalled another cane, a gold-headed ebony one on which his
initials were carved on the end as indicated in the message, which
had been given him by us children years before, and which had been
lost on the cars on one of his trips. It was lost by his brother-in-law,
who gave him another stout plain cane with a curved end. I had
completely forgotten this fact of the other cane at the time of the
sitting and was reminded of it on my inquiry in the West. I treated
the incidents here narrated as a confusion of the gold-headed cane
with the one that I had sent him myself. The dramatic representation
of the communicator's actions in describing something in connection
with the cane I treated as mere secondary personality. Careful inves
tigation, however, showed that father was in the habit of thumping
this curved handled cane down on the floor or against the door, when
he could reach it, to call my stepmother, as he could not speak above
a whisper. Also the circular motion described by Dr. Hodgson might
be an attempt to reproduce an action which was very frequent with
my father, according to the statement of my stepmother, when he
was in a playful mood. He would reach out and catch her by the
arm or neck with the hook of the cane and enjoy himself at her
XLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 59
expense watching her try to extricate herself. My brother and sister
as well as my step-mother testify that he often drew or rolled his cane
across his knees, as he was hardly ever without it in his hands, and
that there were two occasions in which he was in the habit of keeping
time with this cane. First, when he was listening to music, and
secondly, when he was in meditation upon some subject. All these
facts were wholly unknown to me (Cf. Note 36, p. 416). But at the
time the confusion was too great for me to consider the incidents as
interesting in their present shape. I resolved, however, to test my
conjecture as to the possible reference to the two canes that I had in
mind at the first opportunity that offered. I did this at my last sitting
in June.
I had given a cane with a curved handle to my father shortly
before the presidential election. On it was a representation of a " gold
bug." Some years previously father had changed his political party.
When he came to his old home in Xenia, Ohio, to die, my cousin,
Robert McClellan, the one who is a communicator in this record, came
with his wife to call on father and in the conversation expressed his
curiosity about father's politics in the question : " Well, uncle Robert,
how are you in politics now?" My father replied simply by picking up this
"gold bug" cane and shook it at my cousin, and all had a hearty laugh
about it. This incident I had from the parties present at the time
after I arrived to see my father. I found my father very much
interested in the issues of that campaign. Hence, with this incident
in mind, I resolved to kill two birds with one stone by referring to this
occasion and the cane to see if any light might be thrown on my con
jecture already stated.
In the sitting of June 8th I had alluded to the presidential election
and the passing of hard times as an explanation of a certain incident
(p. 494), and as soon as the allusion was understood I asked :—" Do )-ou
remember how you shook a walking-stick at Robert McClellan about
that time ? " Great excitement followed in the hand, and as soon as it
calmed down it wrote :—
"Well I do. I never was more excited in my life. I think I was right
too. (S. : Well, who gave you that walking stick ?) " The forefinger of the
hand which had been listening to my question began tapping me on the left
temple for fully half a minute and then wrote : " You did, and I told him
about it. [Pointing to Dr. Hodgson.] (S. : Yes, 1 thought so. What was
on it ?) What was on it ? I think I know that it had the little top [?] I
• . . I think it had the little ring? Ring. [See cut, p. 495J on it." (S. :
I think I know what you mean by that. That is near enough. Do not
worry. You recall it well) [p. 494.]
The lines here might fairly represent an imperfect attempt to draw
the beetle or "gold bug" on the cane I gave him, or the mode of
60 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
mending the other cane by the tin ring. The allusion to the " top "
and " ring " had no meaning for me at the time except as mistakes.
He had referred to a cane in Dr. Hodgson's sitting on February 22nd,
which I afterwards found was probably not the one that I here
had in mind. But on my personal inquiries in the West, I ascertained
a fact of some importance that I did not know. I found that father had
mended the cane with a tin ring about four inches long. The cane is
still with my stepmother. But there is no trace in this February
sitting that father had in mind the " gold bug " cane. It was far more
natural to mention the older one that he had used for over twenty
years, and as it was his brother-in-law's substitute for the gold-headed
cane, it was natural to associate it with that on which his initials were
carved, and we can interpret the confusion as an incomplete message.
There was probably some confusion also in his own mind regarding the
matter, until he finally drew the representation of the " gold bug,"
unless we treat it as an attempt to draw the " ring " and not the
" gold bug " at all, as I had also been a party to the present of the gold-
headed cane. But, however this may be, the allusion to " the little
top " and to the " ring," before correcting the statement to the repre
sentation of the beetle, fits the first two canes and not the one that I
gave him. But the incidents fit in one way or another all three
canes, and the liability to confusion from defective association is well
illustrated by similar illusions of my own, mentioned later (p. 228).
The second fact resulting from my inquiries, and which I did not
know at the time, refers to the excitement which father confessed on
the occasion to which my question referred. The wife of my cousin,
Robert McClellan, told me that she and her husband had to leave
the room sooner than they intended, because my father, who could
not talk above a whisper, showed so much excitement on the issues of
the campaign that they were afraid a spasm of the larynx would
come on in which he was likely to suffocate. I knew that he was
intensely interested in the campaign, but I was not told of the special
incidents of his talk with my cousin.
To summarise the case, father had three canes ; the gold-headed
cane on which his initials were carved, the stout one with the curved
handle, which had been broken and mended with a tin ring, and
the " gold bug " cane that I gave him which also had a curved handle.
The communications nominally purport to refer to but one of them.
Their fitness, however, depends on distributing the incidents among all
three canes. The initials on the end, as mentioned in the recoRl, fit-
the gold-hcadod cane ; the ring, curved handle, and habits of using
it in various ways fit the second ; the recognition in answer to
my question and the statement that I gave it to the communicator
fit the " gold bug " cane. The drawing is equivocal, and may fit the
XLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 61
second and last. Consequently, on the assumption that confusion is
certain to be an incident of communication, the statements may have
evidential value. Otherwise they obtain little or no importance.
Immediately after the cane incident in the sitting of February
22nd, Dr. Hodgson read a letter that I had sent for the purpose of
trying to improve the communications and of starting associations
belonging to my father's life in Ohio. We were both dissatisfied with
the results of the previous sittings. I shall not repeat the letter
here, nor shall I quote all that he said in reply, as part of it, though
accurate enough, is not evidential. In the letter I referred to the time
that I started to college, and because my father had showed consider
able emotion on the occasion, I asked, " Do you remember how you
felt then 1 " The reply contained at first the sentiment and thought of
what he said to me on that occasion, but is wholly non-evidential,
though it is literally true that he told me he did not wish me to want
for anything. But after the end of the letter he said to Dr. Hodgson,
" God bless you, my son. Do you remember this expression 1 I wish
you to know that to me James was all I could ask for a son, and
when I left him or he left me I was heart-broken in one sense, but I
felt that I had much to look forward to." The pertinence of this
statement is apparent when I say that on the morning that he put me
on the train for college, the first time I had ever been left to my own
responsibility, he being conscious of the temptations to which I would
be exposed out of his sight and myself unacquainted with the world,
after giving me the advice mentioned, he bade me good-bye and
broke down crying, the only time that I ever saw him shed tears in
my life. In important partings like this father always bade me good
bye with "God bless you."
In the letter I also alluded to my Aunt Nannie's care for us,
and said : " I remember, too, how we used to go to church." Mrs.
Piper's hand bowed in prayer for a few moments, and then the reply
came :—
" I remember the coach very well, and the roughness of the roads
and country. I also remember Aunt Nannie and her motherly advice to you
all, and I look back to her with a great gratitude for her kindness to us all.
Do you remember Ohio, James, OHIO . . . and anything about
Bartlett. I have not seen him yet, but hope to in time. I am trying
to think of the principal of your school and what he said to me about George.
I am still troubled about him, and if you can help me in any way by
sending me anything encouraging about him I shall feel better I know."
After some further conversation with Dr. Hodgson about his concern for my
brother, he added: " You see I left with this on my mind, and I cannot
dispose of it until I have learned from James that he will not feel troubled
in this regard. We had our own thoughts and anxieties together regarding
this and Aunt Nannie also " (p. 401).
62 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
This is also a remarkable passage. Every incident of it is true and
pertinent, except the reference to Bartlett, which I cannot explain,
except as a possible reference to Bartlett pears, of which father was
very fond and to whose culture he had devoted some unsuccessful
efforts, or to BartZott', the name of the township in Ohio, in which my
brother George lives. The mention of the " rough roads and country "
was very pertinent, for they were very rough at the time in mind,
when my aunt was keeping house for father after the death of my
mother (cf. p. 402). " Carriage " is the word father would use,
but probably Rector is more familiar with "coach." Ohio was
his old home. The school incident was this. My brother George
wished to go to college, but had become interested in society while at
the High School, and on this account father hesitated to send him.
In the summer of 1876 I was riding out of town with my father in a
spring wagon, and we talked the question over about my brother, and
I urged father to try him. He then told me that he had talked the
matter over with the principal of the High School, and thought he
could not undertake it. There were several principals during the time
of my brother's attendance at the High School. One of them is dead.
The one who most probably talked with my father is named Bonner,
and is still living. On inquiry I find that I am the only person living
that knows or remembers the incident. A year or so later my brother
left home to take charge of father's land in the northern part of Ohio,
and in the years that followed the management of land there for father,
my aunt Nannie and myself—my aunt Eliza leaving her small interest in
it to my father's care—my brother's loss of money and dilatory methods
of doing business were a source of much worry and trouble to all three
of us.
The special pertinence of all this is too apparent for further proof
or comment. Rector followed it, while father was resting, with some
advice that I should send something in the way of a message to get the
anxiety expressed off my father's mind, and when father returned he
alluded to the cap again in connection with the name " Nannie "
(p. 406). Nothing more of importance was said at this sitting, which
soon after came to a close. There were some interesting explanations
of father's state of mind, and the prospect that he would in time be as
good a communicator as another person named (p. 407).
The next series of sittings were personal, and were eight in number.
In the first of these, on May 29th, the first allusion was to the
Maltine incident already discussed (p. 418), which was an attempt to
answer the question asked by me through Dr. Hodgson at an earlier
sitting. One curious allusion here, apparently to what I was doing in
the experiments on the identification of personality, is interesting
(p. 537), though it is not clear enough to make it evidential (p. 268).
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 63
He said (p. 419) : " Do not go more to that place. I am not there, and
you cannot find me if you go. (S. : What place is that, father ?) With
the younger men trying to find me. They are not light, and I cannot
reach you there." Soon after my first four sittings in December I had
been conducting with my students the experiments in Appendix V.,
and this was the first sitting at which I was present since those
experiments. He then asked to know what " Nani " said about the
paper, having reference to his own injunction at one of Dr. Hodgson's
-sittings to ask her about it (p. 419). He showed himself anxious all
along to have his reading the paper in his armchair identified. An
allusion to my mother and sister Annie followed, and after this a
short passage connected with our conversations on spirit communica
tions. He then asked me if I remembered what he told me on my
departure for school, and I repeated my desire to know the name of
the school. But my attempt failed and later another institution to
which I went afterward was hinted at very clearly (p. 449). Shortly
after, and during Dr. Hodgson's absence from the room, I was asked :
" And do you remember John 1 He has just come to greet you. And
do you remember anything about Lucy. I say Lucy. She was Nannie's
[?] cousin " (p. 421). This was nothing but confusion to me at the time.
But later events show the connection that enables me to put an intelligible
meaning on the passage. Lucy is the name of Robert McClellan's
wife, and she is still living, her husband having died a year later
than my father. She was evidently intended in the next commu
nication from my father. John was the name of Robert McClellan's
grandfather. But the statement that this Lucy is " Nannie's cousin "
is wholly false. The doubt about the reading of the word for
" Nannie " enables us to suggest that possibly it was a mistake for
" Annie," my sister, in which case the statement is correct. It is
not impossible to put this interpretation on the original writing.
But I do not claim this conjectural reading as evidential.
A confused message about my " brother F . ."terminated father's
communications, and my sister took his place and said a few words
(p. 421). She correctly stated two facts, that she had died before
father and that it was long ago. On father's return he made some
allusion to a church, and a moment afterwards said, " And perhaps
you will recall an old friend of mine who was a doctor, and
who was a little peculiar in regard to the subject of religion,
and with whom I had many long talks. A man small of stature
and more or less of mind. It has gone from me—i.e., his name, but it
will come back to me" (p. 421.) This suggested a doctor, Harvey
McClellan, with whom I knew father had had long talks on religion,
and a little later in the same sitting (p. 425) an apparent attempt to
give the name as father left was made in the name Henry [!] McAllam
64 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
[1]. On June 6th (p. 473) father asked me : " What was the name of
that Dr. I cannot think of his name." This occurred soon after my
uncle James McClellan had communicated. Then on June 8th (p. 491)
my father said, without any pertinent connections that are traceable :
" There was a Henry [?] McClellan also. I think you may know this.
He was, I think, an uncle of the McClellan boys." The statements
regarding stature and religious views would be equally or more
applicable to father's dentist, who was always called Doctor, and whose
name, however, was never mentioned at all at the sittings. It is,
unfortunately, not made clear whether the doubtful " Henry McClellan "
was intended by the person described or not.
Immediately following this allusion to a doctor on May 29th
(p. 422) father began a communication having much interest in spite
of its confusion.
Do you remember McCollum [?] (S. : McAUum.) (R.H. : McCollum.)
(S. : No, know what it is.) (S. : Spell it again.) McAllum. (S. : How
was he related to you ?) He was McAllan [?] (S. : Yes, that's it.) Don't
you U D. who I mean ? He came over some time ago. (Yes, I remember.
Tell.) What about your uncle? (S. : Which uncle do you mean?) I
mean ... let me hear once more ... I mean Charles. (S.
to It. H. : That's not quite right. Shall I make him spell it out ?) (R. H. :
Yes.) You must remember him. (S. : Yes, I remember him. But please
spell out the name in full.) In full. (S. : The name of Charles is not right.)
In full did you say ? (S. : Yes.) C 1 a R 1 . . . [Hand signifies dissent.]
Speak it more loudly. C 1 or R . . . C. [pause] (S. : That's Clark.)
C Ira R a k E. Clark (S. : That's right.) E (S. : Not quite) son [?]
. there are some more which I will ... I say. He is here
himself speaking it for me. Clarke. Clarance. Speak it louder friend.
Well he is uncle C lauc [?] C 1 a r a k e. I will wait for it. It sounds
very like it. Clarke. Charles [?] Well, never mind. Don't try. Wait a
moment and do not hurry . . . yes and McAllan. Well you must
know him. I had a cousin by that name. Don't you remember it.
I saw in the " McCollum " and " McAllan " an attempt to give the
name McClellan, and it was confirmed both by the previous name
Lucy, which was that of his wife, still living, and by the statement
that " he came over some time ago." The inference, however, is
confirmed by later events. He was not my father's cousin, but his
nephew, and my cousin. The confusion and error thus have an
interest, and no less is this the fact with the attempt to give the name
of my uncle, which never succeeded. They never got nearer his name,
which was Carruthers, than Clarke or Charles. [Cf. Footnote p. 423.)
The next question that I was asked was : " Where is George ? I
often think of him, but I do not worry any more about him," both the
name and the implication in the term "worry " being correct, and in a
moment came the quick communication : " Do you remember Thorn
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 65
. . Tom . . and what has he done w.ith him. I feel quite
. . . yes . . . yes, all right . . . I mean the horse " (p. 423).
We had an old faithful horse by the name of Tom, that used to
get excited and work too hard if fretted in any way, and father always
cautioned us against using the whip on him, and when the horse became
too old to work, pensioned him, so to speak, and allowed him to die on
the farm. I find by correspondence with the brother named here that
he buried the horse after its death. This was after I had finally left
home, and was somewhere about 1880 or later. The last part of the
message has a most important interest. After the confusion with the
names of my uncle and cousin, Rector evidently wanted this name to
be completed, supposing apparently that father was trying to give the
name of some person, and seems to have asked him if he was clear.
Father's answer shows that he felt clear about it, and the sudden
explanation of what he meant by saying that he meant the horse
both determined the evidential value of the incident, and satisfied
Rector as to the situation.
He then expressed wonder as to what my sister meant by referring
to a sled, which she had done a little earlier, and then came : " James,
are you waiting for me 1 I used to read the paper in my chair, but
strange they none of them remember it. Did you write to Nannie
about it, James1 . . . And the little tool I used for my feet.
He says no. Stool. Yes, I had for my feet. Cannot you remem
ber ? (8. : When was this V) Just before I came here " (p. 424.)
Father had a stool for his feet, but always refused to use it.
When my stepmother would offer it to him for propping his feet up
near the stove, he would put it aside and thrust his feet direct into
the oven to warm them. This was very frequent during the last
year of his life. The chair incident and reading his paper explain
themselves and represent the facts already mentioned (p. 387).
After my father's confessing a change of views about the Bible,
which might be construed as an objection to identity, a few brief
communications from my sister Annie concluded the sitting.
At the sitting of May 30th, the first allusion was to the Cooper
incident, and then there came a long and confused series of communi
cations apparently from my cousin Robert McClellan (p. 427). The
evidence that he was the real communicator comes later. The fact to
be noted here is his appearance personally after my father's allusion to
him in the previous sitting (p. 423).
My father followed my cousin, and first made an allusion to the
fatal nature of his illness, and said that nothing would have done him
any good—which was undoubtedly true—referred to my being tired,
and repeated the advice which he had been accustomed to give me,
saying : " You know how I used to talk to you about overdoing
p
66 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
anything, and you will remember your tireless energy." Pertinently in
this connection, as he always pointed to his own condition as an
illustration of overwork, he asked : " Do you remember when I got
hurt ? " and made a clear and correct statement about the fire incident
(p. 430). After explaining his own confusion in these communica
tions, he began the following complicated message :—
Charles. (S. : Is this brother Charles ?) Yes, and John. I just called
them. (S. : What John is this?) Brother John. (S. : Is this brother
Charles speaking ?) Yes, and father. We are both speaking. Chester [?]
Clarke [?] and Charles [?] Yes. Oh speak, James. Help me to keep my
thoughts clear. (S. : Yes, I think you are uncle, are you not ?) No, it is I,
your father, who is speaking, and I am telling you about Charles and John.
(S. : What John is that 1 I remember Charles, but not John, unless it is
John some one else.) McJohn. There are two of the Mclellen over here.
(S. : Yes.) And this one is John. (S. : Yes. Do you remember where
he lived on earth V) I do. What . . . (S. : Do you remember where
he lived on earth 1 I remember John McClellan.) I don't believe I under
stand just what you said, James. (S. : Do you remember where he lived on
earth?) Ohio. Was it that you meant? (S. : That is right.) I told it I
thought before (p. 431).
Except for later developments and inquiries I could give no
meaning whatever to this passage. I suspected who was meant by the
" Chester," etc., but father had no brother John or brother of any
kind. This, however, was cleared up by the evident intention to speak
of John McClellan, who was named spontaneously a minute later. I
knew but one John McClellan, and that was the treasurer of the
institution in Ohio to which my father sent me. So much then ap
peared true in the message ; but it implied, as an earlier use of the
name John with the statement that he had come to greet me, that he
was not living. Here was a good test, and I inquired only to find
that the John McClellan that I had in mind was still living. But this
mistake was spontaneously corrected by my uncle, James McClellan later
(p. 470), giving John as the name of his father who had died many
years ago, and saying that his brother John, whom I had had in mind,
was coming soon (p. 471). He also lived in Ohio. The "Chester,"
" Clark," " Charles," etc., were, as I think, attempts at my uncle
Carruthers, and the first Charles was the name of my brother.
After a pertinent allusion to setting an " example for his sons,"
which expressed the main moral purpose and characteristic of his life,
uttered here from a misunderstanding of a statement of mine, he
apologises for his mistakes and said, " There was another one here
whom you must have forgotten. Do you remember Mary Ann Anne ?
(S. : Well, the rest of it.) Do you remember Mary Anne Hyslop 1
(S. : Yes I do. What relation was she to me 1 ) Have you forgotten
xLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 67
your mother? (S. : No, no, father. I have not forgotten, but I
wanted to see it written out here.) Well, speak to her, my boy "
(p. 432). Some non-evidential communications at once came from her,
and her initials were signed at the close of them. The message had her
religious nature in it, but no interesting facts. Her correct name was
Martha Ann Hyslop. " Mary " was, I suppose, Rector's mistake for
"Martha " (Cf. p. 481 and mistake of "Nannie" for "Maggie," pp. 69,
342, 365).
Following my mother and her religious tone of thought my father
continued, " James, do you remember my preaching 1 (S. : I re
member you used to talk and read to us about the sermons) and
Sunday . . . mornings ... at home 1 (S. : Yes,
I remember that well.) Do you remember the dining-room and
prayers 1 " (p. 432). I have already explained (pp. 432-433) how father
used to spend the Sundays, or Sabbaths as he would invariably say
himself, on which we had no preaching, and morning prayers were
said invariably in the " dining " room if that term be given the flexi
bility necessary to fit the case. But we had two rooms that could be
given that name. We dined usually in the kitchen except when com
pany was present, when we took what we sometimes called a dining
and sometimes a sitting-room. Prayers were held as often in one as in
the other of these rooms. But the use of " Sunday " is interesting, as
it is against identity. The hesitation, however, and the fact that G. P.
is assisting, as indicated a few minutes later (p. 434), are curiously
suggestive. The Imperator group of personalities always use the word
" Sabbath." Rector was the amanuensis here. Hence it is interesting
to see the word " Sunday," which G. P. would always use, written
out when he is assisting. Immediately following this passage is
an interesting one regarding my brother, and it has a most intimate
internal connection with the allusion to the morning prayers. The
evidences of this are too personal to publish, except that I shall say
that this brother was a special object of father's prayers and life-long
religious solicitude. He said here, " Think there is one of the boys I
have not yet mentioned. Isn't there 1 (S. : Yes. I think so. Yes, I
think you have not mentioned him very clearly.) [I had my brother
Frank in mind, whose name had not been given in this form, but in
the form that was not generally used, that of Francis (p. 433).] Well,
I was not sure, but I would like to reach to brother Robert myself
. . . Robert cousin " (p. 433). The pertinence of this is its recog
nition of what my cousin had said about this brother (p. 427). He had
always shown the same interest in him as my father. This cousin's
name, already given, was Robert McClellan, and hence we have both
the correct names given here and the recognition that one of the
persons mentioned had mentioned the other.
f 2
68 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Immediately following this was an allusion to his library and
books, and then a confused attempt to give the name of my half-sister,
in which G. P. figures confessedly (p. 434). After my deliberate assist
ance in recognising one letter of it, it is not necessary to lay any stress
upon the virtual success in getting it. Following some of Rector's
remarks about my father's memory, father continued : " James, do you
remember a little bridge we used to cross in going up to the church 1
(S. : Yes, I remember the bridge and the creek.) Yes, I do very
well. I do also. Mother just called my mind to it " (p. 434). This is
a little equivocal, as I cannot tell whether he refers to his own mother
or to mine. The reference to " mother " would apply to both of them,
though it is hardly specific enough to give it evidential value.
Father then returns to my sister : " Hettie. Tell me about her. Does
she ever speak of me. I don't suppose you can tell because you are not
with her often. James, I am * * [undec.] I am glad he [?] is . .
he is . . here comes John again, we will' be obliged to let him go for
the present." "And if you will speak to me, James, I will tell you that
cousin Annie is very anxious to send her love to H. H. Hettie. (S. : I
will give her love to her.) And do you remember anything of Ruth? I
often hear her speak of her, and . . . she is only a friend I think."
The sitting then came to an end (p. 435).
My father shows a perfectly correct appreciation of the facts when
he said that I do not often see my sister, as the statement implies the
situation consciously recognised and stated elsewhere (p. 375), that
I was in New York and my sister not. I seldom see her.
There are two possible interpretations of the references to " cousin
Annie," " Hettie " and " Ruth." Both of them have the same
pertinence. My notes will explain them (p. 505).
At the next sitting, May 31st, father first referred to " the thought
theory " and Swedenborg (p. 438), and then this was followed by a
long communication, apparently from my cousin, as the latter part of the
message indicates, but ostensibly from the "John " of earlier communi
cations. This must be noticed under the head of my cousin. He was
followed by my brother Charles. Father tried again and failed. It
was explained that my father was " a little dazed," and G. P. broke
in with the statement, " I am coming H. to help out," and inquired
of Dr. Hodgson about a Dr. Meredith. In a minute or two father
began : " I wish you would hear me out, James, my son. I am going
to try and keep my thoughts straight. Yes, I will do my best for you.
How is Franks'! (S. : Frank is much better.) I thought he might
come to us for awhile, but we have not seen him yet" (p. 441). My
brother Frank was an invalid at the time of father's death, and was
unable even to be present at the funeral. My father thought he would
not recover. I had learned a short time before the sitting that his health
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 69
had been recovered. The pertinence of the remark about him would
have been spoiled by my statement here, had it not been that father's
question about him first implied the situation before I had said anything.
Then followed a pertinent question from him, showing that he had
referred to this brother in order to make sure that he had mentioned all
the members of the family, and my answer to it opened up the most
interesting incident of the whole record. I saw my opportunity to
suggest the giving of the name of my stepmother, which I had only
conjectured from the incidents before mentioned.
But I must summarise here the allusions that stimulated a careful
inquiry into the mistake connected with the name of my stepmother.
A curious confusion had persisted in regard to this until I directly
asked for the name. The name " Nannie" with the prefix "aunt" was
several times used for my aunt by that name, and where the incidents
and connections fitted this aunt. But it was also often used without
that prefix where the incidents and connections fitted only my step
mother, whose name was Maggie.
I did not suspect the confusion of " Nannie " with " Maggie " on
December 27th in the use of " Nani " and "Mnni " (p. 343), as father
had a little before referred, as I supposed, to his sister, and gave what
we read at the time as "Nannie," but later as "Mannie." Besides
most that was said, except the reference to the glasses, would apply to
this sister, though more pertinently to my stepmother (Cf. Note 25,
p. 365). But in Dr. Hodgson's sitting of February 7th, father, speak
ing of his spectacle case, said, " I think Nannie will remember this
also." February 16th my father mentioned the cap incident, his dress
ing gown and his bronchial trouble (p. 387-8) in connection with the
name " Nannie " without the prefix " aunt " and he also remarked,
"I often think of her faithfulness to me." All this applied to
my stepmother and not to my aunt. Again on February 22nd, in
the last sitting by Dr. Hodgson, the cap was mentioned a second time,
and connected with the name " Nannie " without the prefix " aunt,"
and all the other incidents in the same connection fitted my stepmother
and not my aunt. Then at the sitting of May 29th, when I was
present, father asked, " What was it Nani said about the paper ? "
(p. 419), referring to the incident of reading his paper in the chair,
mentioned in Dr. Hodgson's earlier sitting (p. 387). There was no
reason whatever thus to refer to my aunt, as only my step
mother, brother, and sister knew the facts. Later in the sitting of
the 29th, father recurs to the same incident and asks, " Did you write
to Nannie about it, James 1 papers. . . " (p. 424). After mentioning
my brother Frank for the purpose indicated, the record proceeds :—
"Have I overlooked any one, James? I will not . . . (S. : Yes,
you have overlooked one, and then the name of another, my present mother,
70 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
was not given rightly. Yes, you overlooked one of your children.) [I had
in mind the sister mentioned in a remarkable way later (p. 460).] Have
I ? Have I ? Well I will think about it and see whether I have forgotten
them. I know I never forget anything, but when I can tell it all to you is
a different matter. Did you say anything about mother, James ? (S. :
Yes, you did not give rightly the name of my mother on earth now.) But
the one with mo? (S. : Yes.) I was speaking about . . . I thought.
I intended to bring her and keep her clear. (S. : Yes, that was right. I
remember my mother on your side, but there is one on this side, you
know) " (p. 441). This was May 31st.
The source of the confusion here is perfectly evident. I ought to
have said stepmother, as was finally done later (p. 483), but she was
always spoken of as "mother," and I thought that the addition
" on this side " would make this clear. But evidently my conception
of the situation was not clear to my father, as his answer showed that
he had my own mother in mind, who was with him at a previous
sitting (p. 432).
The sitting of June 7th was almost wholly occupied with the
attempt to get my stepmother's name. I had resolved, after talking
the matter over with Dr. Hodgson on the way to the sitting, to start
the subject, and the opportunity offered itself near the outset. " (Who
made that cap you referred to so often 1) Mother. (S. : Well, which
mother 1 The one on your side or on this side 1 Which mother, the
one on your side or the one on my side ?) on my side " (p. 478).
Understanding this last statement to be an answer to my question,
and not being sure what it meant, I said : " Do you mean in the
earthly life or in the spirit life 1 " The answer came : " Oh, I see
what you mean. Your mother, James, is with me, but Hettie's mother
is in the body " (p. 478).
This last answer was correct in every detail, and satisfied me that
the name " Nannie," so often given where I had thought my step
mother was really meant, was probably a mistake for Maggie, especially
as "Nannie" had been given in connection with the cap and other
incidents applicable only to my stepmother (p. 406). I then started
the next question with a double object, namely, to get incidents that
I did not know, but which were connected with her, and that might
elicit her name by accident. Father had taken a trip West with her
before moving West himself, and the incidents of that trip were
unknown to me.
(S. : Yes, that is right. Do you remember any trip with her out West ?)
Certainly, I told you about it before some time ago, did you not understand
it 1 (S. : No, I was not quite sure what you meant. When you can I
would be glad to have you tell some things about that trip, but don't
hurry.) Yes, but it was she who made my cap and you had better ask
her about it. Sarah. SARA H." Dr. Hodgson was about to speak
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 71
when father went on, ending in confusion. "Let me see. What is it I
wish to say. Ellen. Help me, Oh help me to [R.H. puts leather spectacle
case and brown knife on table next to hand. Hand moves back the knife
and retains the spectacle case.] recall what I so longed to say. My own
mother Nannie. I . . . wait I will go for a moment. Wait for me,
James." I said I would wait and G.P. appeared, asking Dr. Hodgson if he
had been sent for. Father proceeded : "I think, James, you mean when
we met with the accident, do you not 1 (S. : No, not the accident. You
took a trip with Hettie's mother just before you went out West. It was
that to which I referred.) Well I am sure I have told you of this before.
Think it over and you will recall it. I am not sure I mentioned her, but
I had it on my mind when I referred to the trip I took just before going out
West, do you not recall it ? " (p. 479).
The fact is that I was in as much confusion as my father, as I
had not recognised the trip to which he had referred before (p. 421),
because it was connected with the Cooper incident, which had appeared
as nonsense to me until I verified it from my stepmother after the sittings
were over. Hence I was thinking of the tiip that he had mentioned in
my first series of sittings, which was taken with my own mother and
aunt Sarah in 1861. The expression, "my own mother Nannie," is
a very significant one, especially as a little later (p. 481) the same
references come out still clearer. His own mother's name was Mar
garet, the same as that of my stepmother, which I wanted. Nannie
was the name of his sister, and was used in connections where Maggie,
my stepmother's name, should have been given. Ellen has no special
significance in this connection.
At this point Dr. Hodgson, who did not know that I was quite
satisfied with results, since he did not understand the facts as I did,
called G. P. and explained the situation, and asked for my stepmother's
real name. I explained to G. P. (p. 480) the mental situation of
myself in regard to the two trips and what was wanted. G. P. said :
" I see. Well, I will assist him ; do not hurry." Then followed an
interesting colloquy begun by father, after G. P. had explained to him
the source of my confusion in not knowing which trip he referred to
before, whether it was the one with me or the one with my stepmother.
He said : "Yes, this is . . . the one he referred to was the one
with yourself . . . yes which interrupted his thought somewhat."
Though this is a correct acknowledgment of the case and interesting
as explaining the interruption, it contains much confusion still. It seems
in the first part to imply that the trip he took with my stepmother
involved my presence with them, when this was not the fact, except
that they visited me in Chicago on their way home (p. 440). The
latter part seems to indicate only that my allusion to the trip was the
source of the confusion. But in what follows there is a clear
attempt to straighten the matter out. After some altercation with
72 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Rector, who had advised him to wait, but who finally gave way, father
began :—
' ' It was Aunt Nannie (R.H. : ' About Nannie ') about Aunt Nannie. I
thought it all over about the cap when I spoke of her. I say I . . . " (S. :
The cap was not made by aunt Nannie. You told me rightly a moment
ago.) You are not understanding me, James, let me explain. I thought
of H. ... H A It ... H ... no go on. I thought of
my mother and aunt my sister both at the same time and I wanted to say
that both of their names came into my mind as you spoke of Mary here,
and I got a little confused about it. I am all right now. I wanted to say
something about our visit to her also." Dr. Hodgson was about to interfere
when I remarked that I understood the matter, and the communications
went on. "And between the visit to the boys and aunt Nannie I got
confused a little. (S. : Yes, I understand perfectly.) Well we saw George.
We saw George and Will. Now what did I ... oh yes, I then arranged
to go out there to live. I . . ." [Pause]. At this father disappeared
(p. 481).
The answer to my correction of his apparent allegation that
aunt Nannie had made the cap is a perfect piece of interpretation
of my actual misinterpretation of his meaning. My statement was
calculated to produce worse confusion and I should have remained
quiet ; but fortunately he saw, as he states, my misunderstanding
of his meaning, and quickly explains that he had not intended
to connect the cap with aunt Nannie, though the previous sentence,
perhaps incomplete, is capable of that interpretation. Possibly
the " HAR " is the result of an attempt to say Margaret, and
onlv the syllable "Mar" comes as "Har." The next sentence
gives the same explanation of his confusion that I have previously
mentioned (p. 481), and indicates very clearly my correct interpreta
tion of the former. There he had said, " my own mother Nannie,"
which would imply that his mother's name was Nannie to any outside
reader ; but I knew the facts well enough to discover that the unity
was in the interpretation that I gave, and it is confirmed by the
recognition of the distinction here between his mother's and sister's
names. Recognising that his own mother's name was the same as the
one that I had asked for and perhaps wondering why he had succeeded
only in sending that of his sister, he explains that he had thought of
both of them at once, as I spoke of " Mary here." Now I had not
spoken of any " Mary " by name, and I could never make out until
this writing what this "Mary" could mean. In the request to have
my stepmother mentioned (p. 441), I had referred to my own mother
in the phrase "my mother on your side," without giving the name.
Now in the sitting of May 30th (p. 432) my own mother's name came
out as Mary Ann Hyslop instead of Martha Ann Hyslop. Most
probably, therefore, the name Mary in the present allusions of
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 73
June 7th is the same mistake as on May 30th, and so is intended for
my mother. Consequently, with the allusion to his mother whose name,
Margaret, was the same as my stepmother's, and to his sister, whose
name, Nannie, was the same as that which was mistaken for that of my
stepmother (pp. 69, 343), and with the reference to my mention of my
own mother before, we have a clear indication of what was in my father's
mind and intentions. Who was meant by the message becomes clearer
still in the statement about seeing my two brothers George and Will and
then arranging to go out West. For he did see both these brothers after
the return from that Western trip and then made his plans to move.
Though he has not yet given the name, the incidents make it impossible
for me to mistake who is meant.
My sister Annie took father's place for a few moments, and on his
return he resumed the attempt to name my stepmother and said :—
" I am here once more and I am thinking about the trip I took with
HAT... [Hand dissents.] H A R ... No. [S. shakes his head
negatively.] I want to speak of other things. Will you try and tell me
exactly what you want " (p. 482). Then began the most interesting part
of the whole drama. Dr. Hodgson explained our understanding of the
situation as some confusion still about my stepmother, but Rector indicated
very emphatically that it had "nothing to do with mothers of any sort, but
with trips," and asks us not to worry him but to refer to something else.
Dr. Hodgson then explained that the name of my stepmother had never
been given correctly, saying, "mother in the body," however, until I
suggested "stepmother." Rector to my astonishment at once asked : "Has
it been asked for ? " Dr. Hodgson's reply was : ' ' The stepmother has been
referred to in various ways ; for example, as Hettie's mother. She has also
been called Nannie, but her name is not Nannie." "Well" [continued Rector]
" there would, certainly be a mistake in that because they all know better
here than that, because Nannie in the body only acted as a mother to
them after the mother of these children here came here and that must be
why, if they referred to her as mother Nannie " (p. 483).
Now this was a perfectly correct statement on the part of Rector,
but Dr. Hodgson, not understanding the facts as I did, replied, " No,
Rector," and Rector in despair gave the game up, and saying, " I
cannot understand it," yielded his place to G. P. It was too late for
me to correct Dr. Hodgson's statement. But he went on to explain
the situation to G. P., saying what the mistake had been, and G. P.
replied sharply, " Well, why do you not come out and say, give me my
stepmother's name, and not confuse him about anything except what
you really want 1 (R. H. : I think that it has been asked for directly,
but cannot be sure.) (S. : Yes.) Has it, very well, if she has a name
you shall have it. G. P. understand 1 " (p. 483). Dr. Hodgson ex
plained that there seemed to be some peculiar difficulty about her
name. G. P. replied, " I do not think so, H., but I do think he would
74 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
refer to it in his own way if let alone. I know how you confused me,
by Jove, and I don't want any more of it. I am going to help him,
and he is going to tell all he knows from A to Z. No doubt about it,
H. No one could be more desirous of doing so than he is. Is that
clear to you 1 Well, when he gets ready out it will come, and there is
no use wondering about it. I see him now, and he is anxious to say
something " (p. 484).
G. P.'s blunt, sharp answer to Dr. Hodgson's explanation is beyond
all praise for its appreciation of the situation as he understood it, and
his way of advising us how to simplify the problem would be accepted
by every reader as a most rational rebuke for our confusion and mixing
up of demands ; but it was based upon an entire misunderstanding of
the fact that we had asked for the name of my stepmother, and he
seems not to have known that the question of trips entered into it, as
Rector did. It is true, nevertheless, that, had it not been for our
habit of letting the communicator take his own way we should, in all
probability, have simplified the request, as G. P. put it in his conception
of the situation.
Before my father's return my uncle asked me an absurd question
and disappeared, and then my father appeared and went on to our
conversations about this subject before he died (p. 484). Finally at
the close of the sitting G. P. suddenly appeared and wrote :—
I will speak for a moment and say I do not see any reason for anxiety
about Margaret. (R. H. : Who says this ?) George. He said, I suppose
I might just as well tell you first as last and have done with it, or James
may think I do not really know. Go tell him this for me. You see I got
it out of him for you, H., but you no need to get nervous about it, old chap
(p. 486).
Margaret of course, was the correct name, and if it could be finally
gotten so easily by telepathy, why all this fuss ? The character and
manner of G. P., with his intelligent appreciation of the whole situa
tion, make one of the most interesting features of the case, and display
every evidence of independent intelligence.
This episode regarding my stepmother's name began in the sitting
of May 31st, near the close, and ended on June 8th. I return now to
that of May 31st.
After father's allusion to my mother (p. 441), he was followed pos
sibly by an attempt of my Uncle Carruthers, if the letters " E . .
E . . El . ." are any indication of it (Cf. pp. 310, 314, where
a similar beginning ended with the completion of the name Eliza). But
my vincle failed, and then came a long communication from my cousin
Robert McClellan. When my father returned he apparently referred
to the Lucy just mentioned before at the close of my cousin's effort,
and accompanied the reference with a group of names quite pertinent
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 75
to the McClellan family (See Note, p. 433). Some confusion followed,
and, after an automatism regarding his often hearing my sister Hettie
playing, meaning the organ, perhaps, which she used to play, he pro
ceeded to " speak of the foot which got injured in the accident," the
incident being applicable to my " uncle Charles," as it was the cause of
his death, but the name was not mentioned. He ran off into a dazed
condition and started possibly by the letter F to say Frank, but
said "it was 'Will's," and added, "He got it injured and so did I.
Did you know he was on if!" (p. 444). My father did injure his leg
(cf. p. 430), but my brother Will did not, as I had to ascertain later.
My brother Frank injured his leg by a fall, and was threatened with
locomotor ataxy. The confusion is apparent, and thinking that it
might be true without my knowledge, I said I would ask about it, and
the communications went on :—
The boys were so unlike you. I do not think you often asked anything
of them, you never used to do so. (S. : That's right.) You remember
what she used to say, if they were like James I would not have anything to
think about, but . . . how is Helen. I am really too weak to think
more for you, James (p. 444)
This is a very pertinent reference to my brothers, as it reflects
father's exact opinions. I seldom asked him about them, as I corre
sponded with them, and I also seldom or never asked any favours of
them. What is attributed to " she " in this case is exactly true of my
stepmother, as she states it over her own signature (p. 512). The
" Helen " is meaningless unless it is an attempt at Henrietta or Hettie
again. The sitting came to a close after some communications from my
two uncles, before father had an opportunity to return.
At the sitting of June 1st, as soon as it was opened, father began to
answer an earlier question to tell me where he had sent me to college.
" I intended to refer to uncle John, but I was somewhat dazed, James.
Do you understand me 1 " I said that I understood, and he stated
that he had referred to this for clearing matters up, and added, " And
there is another thing to which I would refer, and that is the univer
sity. It was there, James, that I had you go, and the others I will
refer to soon." Now, assuming that this " uncle John " refers to the
John McClellan whom I know, the statement about sending me there
to the university is perfectly true and pertinent. But this John
McClellan was neither mine nor my father's uncle. He was my
cousin's uncle, and, according to my uncle James McClellan's later
statement (p. 472), this John referred to by my father was my uncle's
father, and would be no relative of my father or myself. Besides,
though it is correct that father sent me to the university here indi
cated, it was not the college that I had in mind when asking my
question, and it was not the college connected with the answer to my
76 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
question about how he felt when he started me away from home
(p. 401). Also the institution to which my original question related
was not called a university ; the institution to which my father referred
in connection with John McClellan was called a university.
The next passage has some remarkable features in it, and as an
explanation of his difficulties, it is accompanied by a reference to his
previous intention to mention " the Mclellen family one by one and
to keep all of their names quite clear," and he then added :—-
"Do you remember our old home in the little town of C. and where I
with aunt Nannie lived after your mother left us and we brought you up."
Another statement followed, evidently explaining to Rector that he was not
confused, and asserting "the names of your mother's family are all known
to me." He continued : " I intended to clear up about James and John
Mclellen before I left." [See previous sitting, p. 445 ] " Speak, James, if
you . . . (S. : Yes, father, I hear clearly and remember the old home
and aunt Nannie bringing us up.) And the special core I had with one of
the boys. It is all right in my mind now. I only refer to it that you may
know it is I, your father, and no one else who is speaking, and .
(S. : Yes.) I also wanted Clarke for a mere recollection, not because I
had any special interest otherwise. (S. : Yes, I know, and— did he
have anything to do with your sister ?) Oh yes, only by marriage. (S. :
Yes, that is right, and is he on this side or not ?) Yes he is, and has been
for some time. (R. H. : That's not clear.) I often see him. (S. : Yes, do
you mean that he is on your side?) He is here. (S.: Yes, what brought
him there, to your side ?) Why do you not remember of his coming here
suddenly, James? (S. : Yes.) It was pneumonia. (S. : Yes, I remember
his sudden coming, but I wanted to see if something said about him before
was what you meant.) What it was, due to it, and if I mistake not you
remember it very well. (S. : Yes, I remember it, but do not worry about it
now. It will come again. You can go on.) I only was disturbed because
of the accident that I could not make clear, and Charles interrupted me
somewhat because he had a ferer, and yet we are not suffering with anything,
don't think that, James, will you. (S. : No, I shall not. It is all right.)"
A confused reference was then made to my aunt, and in a moment his place
was taken by my sister Annie (pp. 449-450).
The incidents about my aunt helping bring us up after the death
of my mother are all true. I had mentioned her name and my memory
of her care for us when we were young in my letter read to the
hand on February 22nd (p. 400). The time and place relations in the
statement are exactly correct, except that there is an error in the
letter for the town indicated. It should have been X. (for Xenia).
My aunt did not remain as long with us as the language here might
imply. She remained with us three years. The reference to the special
care, with the italics, has a very definite pertinence for all the
members of the family who know the facts, and the story cannot
be told here, as it is too personal. The name Clarke is not correct,
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 77
though it is the same as has usually heen given for the uncle
meant, and the answer, that he was related by marriage only,
states the case rightly, as no indication in the name here or in the
question I put occurs to suggest this answer. That he is on " that
side " is also correct, also the time relation in our parlance, this being
seven months previous to these sittings. He also died suddenly, but it
was not from pneumonia. It was by an accident on a railway. This
is apparently indicated in the allusion here to an accident. But it
will be interesting to note in this confusion that the uncle, James
McClellan, who had been mentioned a few minutes before, had died
from pneumonia, and the allusion to Charles, my brother, saying that he
" had a fever " was also correct, he having died of scarlet fever. My
notes deal with this confusion at length (p. 513). It is also interesting
to see how much truth lies in the background of the confusion, especi
ally when we remember that the name of my brother has often appeared
as that of my uncle. The confusion consequently seems to show
indications that the communicator was conscious of it, or uncertain
whether I had gotten his message rightly.
After my sister's long communication, father returned and referred
to certain habits of my brother. " Do you remember where George
used to go, and it did not please me very well. You see the hours I
spent over him and with him, the advice I gave him, and very little
good at times. I remember Frank, and I also recall the time he caught
the fish. Do you remember that Sunday 1 " I asked if he meant Frank,
and the reply came : " Yes ; I refer to him as he knew about it and
the trouble it gave me." After some interlocution regarding my going
home and the communicator's desire that I ask Frank about it, he
continued, " And there was a place he used to go evenings, and both
his aunt and myself did our best to keep him out of temptation." I
repeated my query to know if Frank was meant, and the reply was,
" Yes, I do mean Frank " (p. 454).
My father did deprecate the social habits of my brother George,
though his reason for it did not reflect on this brother. The fishing
incident I knew nothing about, but inquiry developed that the only
fishing experience that gave Frank any trouble with father was on a
Saturday and not on Sunday, and that the escapade also involved my
brother Robert. The same inquiry also showed that neither father nor
aunt ever complained of Frank's social habits. Now it was the social
life of my brother Robert that should be deprecated in the messages
here, while those of my brother George were never rebuked by my
father for moral reasons. In fact, the whole passage is definitely
applicable to my brother Robert, and not to the others, except that
Frank was connected with the trouble about fishing, and that father
did object to George's going to a certain place. The mistake here is
78 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
somewhat like that of the guitar (p. 461). Consequently there would
be absolutely no clue to any possible truth in these messages, except for
the incident in which this brother Robert was involved with Frank,
namely, the fishing. My notes make this incident clear (p. 516).
Following the above and in the same sentence came : " But do you
remember anything about War 1 (S. : Yes, I do. Go on.) and the
mental anxiety I passed through at that time 1 (S. : Yes, I remember
it very well indeed.) and my leg ? I am getting tired, James. Will rest
a moment and return " (p. 454). Father did pass through a very anxious
time during the Civil War, as he was much interested in the abolition
of slavery. He would probably have volunteered but for the injury to
his back and leg which had incapacitated him for the duties of a
soldier.
My brother Charles followed with some communications, and when
father returned he made a number of statements of minor importance,
and the sitting closed with a reproduction of what might close a letter
from him. " I must leave you soon, they say, so accept my little helps
and remember me as your * * [undec.] father, R. H. Hyslop."
There was no intermediate H in his name, which was simply Robert
Hyslop. It is not impossible that the surname is an expansion of the
initial " H " (p. 456).
The first communicator in the next sitting, that of June 5th, was
my mother. The only evidential incident in her communication was
the question whether I had any more headaches ; I often suffered with
them when she was living and she gave me soda for them. After
fourteen or thereabouts I had no trouble with them. My father
followed with some short unevidential messages, though alluding to
past communications and difficulties in sending them (p. 458). His
place was then taken by my " uncle Clarke," who gave the clearest set
of messages he had given since the sitting of December 24th.
The most striking feature of it was the coming on of confusion just as
he mentioned the name of my sister Lida, and my father's taking up
the thread at once in a relative clause, saying : " which is the one I
failed to mention . . . and I had to come to straighten out uncle
Clarke's mind, James " (p. 460). This was correct. Lida was the one I
had in mind a previous sitting (p. 441) when I said that one beside
my stepmother had not been mentioned. Alluding to my sister Lida,
still, my father went on with the communications :—
I wanted to speak of her myself, James (S. : Yes, that is right) and I
wanted to hear her sing. Do you hear me clearly ? (S. : Yes.) I know you
will remember the organ (S. : I remember it.), and I was just thinking of
our Sunday evenings at home. (S. : Yes.) Yes, although time has changed
those days they are still lingering in my memory (S. : Yes, I remember
them. Please go on.), and I remember our little family circle very well.
xLL] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 79
You see I go back some time ago for the purpose of recalling incidents which
took place when you were one of them. I am not dreaming, my son, but I
am quite clear and near. I had no idea at first what you really wished of
me, then it all came to me when you said : [hand indicates R. H.] Well, how
would you have James know it was you ? [Hand moves towards R. H.]
(R. H. : Yes, I said that.) Yes, you said that. I remember the organ and
our singing the . . . Oh, what was that hymn, James, we used to sing
so often 1 (Keep calm. It will come all right.) N . . . Well, I will
think of it presently and ... is it all clear to you, or are you con
fused 1 " (p. 460).
We did have an organ, and father wanted my sister Lida to learn
to play and sing with it. The close proximity of the allusion to
" Sunday evenings at home " to that about the organ seems to imply
the habit of spending those evenings about the organ. But this was
not the fact. It was positively forbidden, as father was opposed to all
such music on Sundays, and also to its use in any form of worship.
The Sunday evenings were spent in a far more prosaic manner, though in
an appropriate religious way. All the singing about the organ was done
on week days. The statement that the events here mentioned belonged
to the time when I was a member of the family circle was exactly correct.
The reason specified for his giving these incidents in connection with
the allusion to Dr. Hodgson's explanation of what I wanted in the
proof of identity is an interesting bit of intelligence, as this explanation
was made on February 7th previous (p. 374), and father was not before
sufficiently acquainted with either this problem or scientific questions
to appreciate the matter without direction. The resumption of the
organ and hymn singing contains the implication that this special hymn
was accompanied by the use of the organ, but this was never done
with the "hymn" that I would expect him to speak of here. In fact,
"psalm" is the word that I ought to have gotten. There was a
special psalm that was frequently sung at family worship. But as the
same mistake in the use of " Sunday " is made as before (cf. p. 432),
we can understand on the supposition of an intermediary, G. P.,
how the terms would not be father's. G. P. stated on June 6th,
the next sitting (p. 468), that he was present at this sitting for a few
moments at least. But the association of the organ and the singing
of this " hymn " could be accounted for only on the supposition that
he had changed his views on the matter of instrumental music
(cf., allusion to hymn, p. 389), and was too confused to state what he
had in mind. It is possible that we children sang some of Moody's
and Sankey's hymns with an organ accompaniment on week-days, but
as no one attempted to play the organ but myself, and I only chords,
it is not a fact that makes the incident here any clearer.
The next incident is one of very considerable interest. I shall give
it in full. It follows the one just given and without interruption.
80 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
It is most interesting also to remark that it concerns a musical
instrument, probably suggested by the reference to the organ, and
belongs to the same period of the " family circle " alluded to above.
Yes. Oh . . . what has Will done with the flute . . . not
flute, I ... oh dear I know so well what I mean . . fid . . .
fiddle . . . fiddle. (S. : I do not know, but I think you are
thinking of another brother and another musical instrument.) Yes, I think
I am thinking of George (S. : That is right. ) and his C . . . Vial
. . . it is my fault . . . [R. H. puts knife on table.] I am thinking
of George and his . . . the instrument he used to play . . . but
the name has gone. [Hand sways in the air and moves fingers suggesting
playing a guitar. J. H. H.] (S. to R. H. : Look at that hand. Do not
bother about the name now. I know exactly what you mean.) Yes, all
right. After I go out I will return and recall it. I feel I must go for a
moment (p. 461).
This is sufficiently explained by the simple fact that my brother
George had a guitar on which he learned to play, and father
had known nothing about it for seventeen years before his death.
The dramatic play of imitating the use of the instrument, together
with the confusion of names for it, was exceedingly interesting, and is
one of those complex incidents which are difficult of explication by
telepathy.
A long communication from my brother Charles followed, and the
sitting came to a close.
In the next sitting, June 6th, after the usual preliminaries, G. P.
spoke a few words with Dr. Hodgson, saying that he had helped " a
man by the name of Charles " the last time, but did not have time to
say " How de do, H." He alluded to his intention to aid an elderly
gentleman, and my father appeared ready to communicate, when I
asked for the communication of incidents that occurred before I was
born, and which my two aunts would know. TJ'he matter was further
explained to Rector and G. P., who made it clear to my father, to
whom I had used the expression that this plan would " shut out the
thought theory," to which he had alluded in the Swedenborg incident
(p. 438). He expressed his understanding of my object, and left to
" think it over." His place was taken for a few minutes by my cousin,
Robert McClellan.
When father returned, he at once said:—" Will you kindly ask Aunt
Eliza if she remembers a young man named Baker, and if she recall
going to a prayer meeting one evening with him, and if she remembers
who teased her about him, and ask them both if they remember Jeriy.
<R. H. : Jerry 1 ) Yes. (S. to R. H. : That's right.) Perhaps
you may know this. If you do, say so, James, and I will think of
something else which you do not know " (p. 469). Interested in the
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 81
mention of this name, I asked for its completion, when I was told,—
evidently by Rector, as the interjection is his,- -" Ah, but it is no use
if you know it. . . . "—a fine rebuke for my own disregard of the
demand that I had made, as I did know of this person having been in
the family. Father then continued and said : "But ask her," referring
evidently to the same aunt as before, " if she remembers who put the
shoes in her bed and a sock on the post. No one on earth can know
this, as mother is here and she and the Rogers girl only will testify to
it. [Excitement in hand.] I have something better. Ask her if
she recalls the evening when we broke the wheel to our ivagon . .
and who tried to cover it up, so it would not leak out so to speak. I
remember it as if it happened yesterday, and she will remember it too.
I cannot tell you any more just now, but I will think over what is on
my mind about our school days and of my trying to preach to the boys
in the barn and more about it. Be sure and ask about Baker, Jerry
and the broken wheel." He then left and was followed by my uncle
James McClellan (p. 470).
Neither of my two aunts could remember anything of these incidents,
except the pertinence of the reference to Jerry and that father did
tease his sister Eliza about walking home from a prayer meeting,
though the name Baker is not right. This Jerry was an orphan
boy taken into the family when I was a very young child and I have
no personal recollection of him, as he left the family before I was old
enough to remember him. But I have heard father and my two aunts
mention him often, as there were special reasons in his innocent
stupidity for remembering him. It is also natural that my two aunts
should not recall the other incidents here mentioned, as one of them is
seven and the other thirteen years younger than father, the latter,
Eliza, being the one that figures in all but one of the above incidents.
When father returned at the close of my uncle's communications he
alluded to a box of minerals that he said he had when a boy. After some
brief allusions to a box of books (p. 473) he gave the long and remark
able incidents about our conversation on spirit communication alluded
to earlier (p. 474), and as the sitting was coming to an end, referred
to the difficulties of expressing himself, with the remark that he hoped
his thought in fragments would at least comfort me a little, apparently
accepting the work as a matter of personal interest and consolation to
me. I saw this and expressed the hope that it would help me in the
great cause for the world, and the pertinent reply came : " Yes, and
humanity at large, I trust." He then bade me good-bye, saying :
" Good-bye, Robert Hyslop, your old father " (p. 475).
I could not verify the statement about the " box of minerals," so
called, but I found that he was once interested in Indian relics, and
knew myself that he once had a small collection of Indian stone relics.
n
82 [l,AKT
J. H. Hytlop, Ph.D.
The sitting for June 8th was opened by some advice and prescrip
tions from the trance personalities in behalf of both my physical and
spiritual welfare, in which there are evident traces of a serious purpose,
howeverwe interpretthem (p. 488). When fatherappeared, he firstreferred
to his having made the acquaintance of Dr. Hodgson's father, and
mentioned their agreement and differences in belief when living (Cf. p.
389). He then said that he had learned from "them," the trance
personalities, that I was going away, and that he wanted Dr. Hodgson
to take his messages sometimes. He then asked if I was going home
soon, and I replied in the affirmative. He promised to be there and to
watch for anything we said, and report it to Dr. Hodgson. Nothing
came of this. He repeated some questions about incidents that he had
told me, and expressing his satisfaction with my reply and getting
these things off his mind, asked, " Do you remember that Eliza's name
was really Elizabeth 1 She was named Elizabeth as a child, and as
time went on we began to call her Eliza " (p. 491).
Aunt Nannie denied that there was any truth in this. Aunt Eliza
herself said that she was called Lizzie when a child, and was afterward
called Eliza, by which latter name I had always known her.
Shortly afterwards father asked me to talk to him as I used to do,
and as I had kept him all these sittings telling his own story, I at once
took up the request, and there began as clear a conversation, with
pertinent answers and incidents, as ever came through a telephone.
I began the conversation with the statement : " I bought the
house in which you lived out West in order to avoid expenses with the
courts." The reply and conversation came as follows : " Oh, I under
stand well. I&mglad. (S. : George is still on the northern land.) And
will be, I fear"(p. 491 ). Both these answers are to the point, and the first
one properly appreciative. My father had wanted for years to have his
northern land sold and my brother to leave that locality. Then
followed a very remarkable incident. I asked : " You will remember
Harper Crawford, I think 1 " This man was one of father's old
neighbours, and his daughter married my brother. As soon as the
question was put the hand showed considerable excitement, and the
answer began :—
Yes, I do very well. What about him ? I have tried and tried and tried to
spell his name for you, but I could not seem to articulate for their understand
ing. (S. : Yes, I understand perfectly. I shall mention another too. Do you
remember Robert Cooper ?) Certainly I do very well indeed, and I have
intended to speak his name for you also, but tell me about the mortgage.
(S. : I have not heard about it, but shall learn this summer.) And then let
me know about HARPERS. (S. : Harper Crawford, you mean.)
[Hand assents.] (S. : All right. I shall do so.) I want to know this one
thing only. Are they doing anything about the church 1 (S. : What
church do you refer to, the church in your old Ohio home ?) [Assent.] (S. : I
xLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 83
have not heard, but shall inquire.) They have put in an organ—Organ.
They have put in an organ, James. (S. : Very well, I shall look this up.
Do you mean the first U. P. Church ?) I cannot seem to get that, James.
[Hand listens again.] (S. : Do you mean the First United Presbyterian
Church ?) I cannot get that, can you say it for me slowly ? (S. : Do you
mean the First United Presbyterian Church ?) Say the two last slowly—
got it all but that. (S. : U-ni-ted.) Yes. (S. : Pres-by-te-ri-an.) Yes, 1
do. (S. : Very well, I understand. You say they have an organ now.) I
say yes. (S. : Very well. I shall be glad to find out about it.) Yes, but I
am telling you. (S. : I understand perfectly, that will be a good test.)
Well, it is so, James (p. 491).
I interrupted the conversation with my father about Harper
Crawford by a reference to Robert Cooper, as the reader will observe.
The allusion to the mortgage has this interest. My cousin Robert
Cooper was burdened with a mortgage on his property at the time of
my father's death, and my cousin Robert McClellan had helped him
out of embarrassment. My father never knew these facts, but the
death of Robert McClellan a year later and the fact that he is one of
the communicators in this record enables us to suppose that my father
might have obtained his information on the " other side."
I learned also when in the West that an organ had been put into
the Sunday-school and later into the body of the First United
Presbyterian Church to which Harper Crawford belonged, and also
that this Harper Crawford was one of the two or three persons that
left that church on account of this very fact. The other persons who
left this church for the same reason were my uncle Carruthers
(" Clarke " of these communications) and his wife. On the examina
tion of my father's correspondence, which I had kept, I found that one
letter, about two months before his death, had mentioned the fact that
Mr. Crawford had left this church, but the letter does not say why, so
that I was in all probability ignorant of the organ incident, while
only my subliminal can be said to have known the fact of the man's
leaving the church. But in any case, to start this remarkable incident
belonging to a memory a thousand miles distant, and selected from
the whole universe of living consciousness, just by mentioning a name,
is an achievement in telepathy, if that is the explanation, that makes
one wonder why the name of my stepmother was not gotten more
easily.
This incident was immediately followed by another which has less
evidential value, perhaps, to an outsider, but which abounds with
indications of personal knowledge regarding facts commonly known to
both of us in connection with my brother :—
Tell me something more about George. He always did look out for number
one. (S. : Yes, I cannot tell very much about George, because, as you
know, he very seldom writes letters. You understand.) Yes, 1 think I do,
a 2
84 J. H. Byslop, PhD.
perfectly well. (S. : When I come back here again I think I can tell you
many things about him.) Yes, but, James, I know a great deal myself
and did worry as you must know. (S. : Yes, I understand, and you know I
worried much also.) Yes. Who could know better than I do. Remember
what we talked over when you came out there. (S. : Yes.) Well. 1 can
say only one thing. Do not worry any more about him or anything else
(p. 492).
The pertinence of this is sufficiently indicated when I say that
every word of it is true. Father had worried a great deal about my
brother George, and I with him. But as my statements suggest the
other facts, there is only the appreciation expressed in the words
italicised, thus marked in the original, and here, as having an interest
for the emotional element in this study of the unity of consciousness.
But the narrative goes on with an interesting return to the mental
state just indicated. I said : —
(S. : No, I will try not to worry.) And about the fence. I am thinking
about the tax I left. (S. : The tax has been paid. I settled that all right.
Nearly all the debts have been cleared off. We owe only aunt Nannie a
little.) Oh, what a relief to my mind. I have thought and thought and
thought what would Frank or George do if they had a hand in it. Do you
remember what you did for me once (S. : I am not sure just now, but if
you will remind me.) in rogard to a tax one year? It was what I wrote you
about and you actively helped. (S. : I do not remember it, but you must
not be surprised, because I helped you so often with money, you remember.)
Yes, but about . . . dear James, do you not remember just before I
came here I was not well at the time and I wrote to you about the tax ?
I should never forget it. (S. : I do not exactly recall it, but I think it most
probable, because I know just what the situation was). Well, it will come
back to you I hope as it will live with me forever. What about the fence ?
Do you know what I mean ? (S. : I think I do. I know that we have
repaired the fence.) All right. I intended to have it done before I left,
and I also had this on my mind (p. 493).
This is a most interesting passage. His taxes at the time of his
death were unpaid, because of the total failure of the wheat crop, and
no man that I ever knew hated more to be unable to pay his taxes.
His finances were in a sad condition for the reason mentioned, and he
had concealed this fact absolutely from me. It was his intention to
provide for this and the repair of his farm fences by borrowing. But
there is a wonderful pertinence in the allusion to my two brothers.
Frank was an invalid at the time (cf. p. 441) and unable even to attend
the funeral, with no expectation of ever recovering his health, and was
named as one of the executors of the estate in father's will. Frank
then was in no condition to settle up the confusion incident to all
affairs of this sort. I learned also in the West, after the sittings,
what I did not know before, that my brother George had been named
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 85
in the will as one of the executors ; but some years before his death,
for the reasons implied in the appreciative conversation above and
dissatisfaction with this brother's business methods, my father removed
his name from the will, and two or three days before his death sub
stituted mine for that of my stepmother. The next incident about
another tax I did not remember, but thought it referred to the one that
I paid just after his death. But I found in his letters that it was just
as said here, except that it was not just before his death. It was in
1892. He wrote me about his tax, and instead of asking me to lend
him money for it, requested me to write to my brother Will and
urge him to settle the matter. I do not remember doing so, but my
habit of always meeting such requests would justify my saying that I
probably did so. My brother Will finds on his books that he had paid
the tax after the date of my father's letter.
Soon after I remarked regarding the cane that it was connected
with the campaign, asking if he remembered it, and father replied :
" Yes, well, and I remember the talk with R. about the president."
This referred to the talk with my cousin Robert McClellan on politics,
as mentioned (p. 494). He then mentioned a chest, which he said he
had bought at an auction years ago, and had kept on an attic floor.
I remarked, using my stepmother's name, Maggie, purposely, that she
would probably know, and he asked if she had not put the stick (cane)
in it. This incident is not exactly true as it is stated, but it is possible
that there are some confused facts in it (p. 495). As the sitting
closed he said, assuming that I was going home as promised him,
" You will give my love to Maggie, Nannie, Eliza. Oh, she is not
there, but take it to her," apparently discovering that one of them, I
cannot tell which, could not be seen at the old home. This would
be true of my stepmother. Mrs. Piper then began to come out of the
trance (p. 496).
Recapitulation.
The reader who has followed the preceding account through all its
details will, perhaps, be as much impressed by the apparent confusion in
many of the incidents as by the definitely correct statements. But I
have tried to suggest that even the confusions and errors are accom
panied usually by true statements and have such associations with the
course of thought on the part of the communicator that they continually
indicate groups of memories pertaining to my father's mind. It is,
of course, difficult to estimate the value of all this material. It is, so
to speak, like a fitful and incoherent dream, or series of dreams, or
better still, like the wandering mental condition of a hypnotic patient
with the ordinary inhibitions cut off and yet aware of a definite
purpose to be executed, with interludes of close approximation to the
86 [part
J. H. Hijslop, Ph.D.
ordinary waking consciousness. One of the questions, therefore, that
we have to determine is, how far the facts are actual manifestations of
a particular personality.
To enable the reader to appreciate my answer to this question more
fully I here summarise briefly the chief types of references made by
my father from which I think it will be evident, without any doubt
whatever, that the communicating intelligence claiming to be my
father is either actually this person (with his mind at times somewhat
confused and labouring under difficulties in expressing himself to me),
or a very extraordinary personation of him that has acquired a know
ledge of his experience ranging from an early period to his death, and
including not only a proper appreciation of the matters in which he
was most interested, but specific recollections of little possessions and
peculiarities, some of which were entirely unknown to myself.
His own name and mine were correctly given and it was he who
first mentioned Robert and eventually Frank and Hettie as among his
children. I mentioned George myself first (with the intention of
misleading the communicator), and other communicators mentioned the
rest of the children, Margaret, Sarah, Annie, Charles, Will and Lida
before my father did so. The distinction was correctly indicated in all
of these names between the living and the dead. The names Ellen
and Helen occurred in my father's communications without an}* state
ments that showed what relevance was intended, though in the case of
Helen the connection suggests that it might be a mistake for Henrietta,
the name of my half-sister. They are not the names of any members
of his immediate family.
The most notable cases of names which were either not obtained at
all or obtained only after much difficulty were Maggie, McClellan,
Henrietta, Martha, and Carruthers. Some effort was made to get the
name Carruthers, but after I was apparently satisfied with Clarke no
further attempts were made. Martha was given as Mary and I did
not press for its correction, as it was obvious, both from the context
and the correctness of the other two parts of the name, who was
meant. McClellan was finally given in practically correct form by
G. P., who gave also Margaret for Maggie and Hettie for Henrietta,
rather curious variations from what were dominant in my mind.
Whatever detailed references my father made to the members of his
family concerning his personal relations with them and his appreciation
of the points in their character were pertinent throughout, except in
the one instance in which the language he used fitted Robert and was
not applicable to Frank to whom it was applied. The most important
instances of these were connected with myself (his opinion of me and
what he used to say to my stepmother) and with George and the worry
about him. Also the special care of one of them in connection with the
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 87
reference to our bringing up in the old home, and the mention of my
sister Lida and the organ. We might also include the reference to his
frankness in expressing his personal feelings towards us when he broke
his usual reservation.
The quiet manner of father's life for twenty years before his death
left him little with which to occupy himself except his personal interest
in the members of his family, the management of his finances which
gave him a great deal of vexation, and the events of the day in politics
and religion. Our correspondence was almost exclusively on the
subject of politics and his financial affairs, never on religion after 1885.
Not a word came from him spontaneously on the subject of politics.
But his allusion to the taxes, the fence and his worry about my brother
George were entirely appropriate to the reasons for the financial concern
he felt in life. His immediate reference to the mortgage when I
mentioned Robert Cooper was relevant in this connection.
My father's habits of religious thought come out in various places
in the record, as in the consolatory messages to his sisters for their
recent bereavement, the reference to his " Sunday preaching " and
prayers, incidental references to his moral and religious solicitude for
myself, and in the special incidents which apparently indicate a
change of conviction in matters in which he had been extremely con
servative, as in his conversation with Dr. Hodgson ending with the
significant allusion to the hymn, "Nearer my God to Thee." Closely
associated with the same were his repeated references to the important
talks with myself on this whole question of psychical research and a
future life, when he reminded me of " the thought theory," hallucina
tion, my doubts, hypnotism, " manifestations " recognised as apparitions,
my experiment with the young woman in connection with her dream,
and Swedenborg's opinions, all of which formed the subject of those
conversations.
Also certain facts associated with his sickness and all the main
symptoms and incidents accompanying the last hours of his life, though
connected with more than the usual confusion and difficulty, and
the clear allusion to my voice being the last that he heard. Similarly
his remembrances about the medicines which he took were in most
cases less clear than is desirable, as he specified some which he had
only thought of taking (Maltine and Munyon's), and at least one of
which there is no evidence that he had taken it at all (morphine). He
mentioned one of which I was ignorant (the preparation of oil), and
one which I had casually heard of in a letter and had forgotten
(strychnine). His chief success was in specifying correctly in reply to
my question the medicine which I had obtained for him (Hyoinei).
The incidents of his early life, given in response to my demand for
something that occurred before I was born, were very clear. They
88 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
were the Baker incident, Jerry, the broken wheel, the shoes in the bed,
and the preaching to the boys in the barn. The meaning of the name
Jerry I happened to know, and the incident of walking home with a
young man from prayer meeting is true, except the name Baker, but
the others were unverifiable.
Two automatisms appeared to have some significance. They were
the reference to my sister Hettie's playing, and the phrase, " Give me
my hat," both indicating actual facts in my father's life and know
ledge.
Another series of references which I may here group together con
cern my father's personal experiences, appearances, and little personal
habits and articles that he possessed. Curiously enough his recollec
tions about these were the most confused, possibly in some cases
positively erroneous, where my own memory was most clear, and, in
fact, nearly all his most specific references concerned articles the very
existence of which was not known to me at all. That he was a little
elderly gentleman, that he could only whisper, that he had no teeth,
and that he could not sing were correct statements made about him as
Mrs. Piper returned to consciousness. The reference to his books,
pictures, etc., had some pertinence, but they were confused and of no
evidential value, though I was familiar with the circumstances connected
with them. But the references to the trouble with the left eye, the
mark near the ear, the thin coat or dressing-gown he wore mornings,
the black skull cap, the tokens, the stool, the writing pad, the rests, and
the round and square bottles on his desk, the paper-cutter, his diary,
the brown handled knife and the nail paring, and the horse Tom in
connection with George were mentioned with almost precise correctness,
and were all but the tokens, the diary, and the last incident wholly
unknown to me. The visit to George and Will before moving West was
also probably unknown to me. The references to the place in which he
said he kept his tin spectacle case and the paper knife were not true,
and the box of minerals was either a false or an indeterminate incident.
The most important instances of error in my father's communica
tions, and which will be regarded by many persons as telling against
his identity, although I myself explain them, as the reader understands,
on the assumption of temporary confusion in the act of communicating,
or possibly as due to an error of memory, are as follow : That he sent
me books, a box with two books, that Will had his foot injured appar
ently on the railroad, that there was trouble with Frank's fishing on
" Sunday " (instead of Saturday), that it was Frank (instead of Robert)
who was exposed to social temptations, that Will played the flute or
fiddle (instead of George and the guitar), Ferdinand (for Anderson),
pneumonia for accident, the misapplication of " cousin " to his nephew,
apparently a visit to Frank, apparently also the intimation that Jennie
XLi.] Obso-vations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 89
was the name of a relative of my step-mother, and the other mistakes
in connection with the names of persons and medicines mentioned
above.
Finally, there are various more or less complex groups of incidents
mentioned by my father which it is difficult to estimate evidentially
from the objective point of view, owing to the error or confusion with
which most of them are complicated, or to the impassibility of verifica
tion. And yet, on the whole, they appear to strengthen distinctly the
evidence that my father was actually communicating. They are the
trip to the lake, the railroad accident, in which he was concerned, the
canes, the fire and his fright, the Cooper incidents, the church and the
organ in connection with Harper Crawford, the "coach " and the rough
roads and country in Ohio, and the talk with the principal of the
school about George, etc. From my point of view, neither successes
nor failures in recollection by the communicator in regard to individual
facts, like names or isolated references and events, are at all comparable
in evidential value with groups of facts constituting an organic and
complex whole, and associated together, as they would be, in my father's
mind, even if these groups of references are accompanied by some
incoherence, confusion, and error. Even if we supposed that the first
three of the above groups of incidents were to be estimated as entirely
false (two of which I have so classed in the statistical summary for the
sake of avoiding inaccuracy on the other side), and the fourth as
without value one way or the other, there would remain three striking
pages, or chapters, so to speak, of the actual personal experiences in
my father's life which were reproduced with almost absolute correct
ness. An interesting feature about them is that in two out of three
cases the main points were entirely unknown to myself.
There was nothing in my father's general mental habits, except his
religious affiliations, that would give him any peculiarities of phrase
by which his personality might be easily and distinctly recognisable.
Occasional words and phrases which I have noted in their place are
decidedly not characteristic of him, and may be attributed to the
trance personalities or to G.P., as the use of "Sunday" for Sabbath,
" coach " for carriage, " library " for sitting-room, etc. But such as
were characteristic, though individually frequent perhaps in the use of
other people, may collectively have some interest as possibly evidential
to that extent, The most distinctly recognisable instances, some of
them unknown to me, were : " You had your own ideas," " stick to
this," " well I was not so far wrong after all," " my sincerity of purpose,"
"do not worry, it does not pay," "meeting face to face," and being
" reunited " after death, " what is their loss is our gain," " the least
said the sooner mended," "you are not the strongest man," "remember
it as if it happened yesterday," etc.
90 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
There will, of course, be various opinions regarding the strictly
evidential value of the communications alleging their sources from my
father, whether taken individually or collectively. But I think that
the reader will no doubt agree, after examining my experiments on the
identification of personality which are given in Appendix V., and
noting the slight evidence necessary for establishing identity, that, if
ordinary agencies are inadequate to account for the phenomena of
this record, I am either actually communicating with the independent
intelligence of my father, or that we have a most extraordinary
impersonation of him, involving a combination of telepathic powers
and secondary personality with its dramatic play that should as much
try our scepticism as the belief in spirits.
" Uiicle Charles " (Carruthers).
The name of my uncle, James Carruthers, who died December 2nd,
1898, was never obtained directly from him nor in any clearly recog
nised form. But the name of his wife (my aunt), his relationship to
various persons in the family, some incidents in his life, and an indica
tion of the accident by which he lost his life, unmistakably suggested
who was meant by " Uncle Charles " and " Uncle Clarke." Most of
his own attempts at communication were exceedingly confused, though
not worse than many instances of my cousin to be considered next. In
some cases he was apparently unable to complete a sentence, so that if
we had not better data upon which to form a judgment than his mes
sages, we should have to treat the record more sceptically ; but taken in
connection with clearer communicators, we can detect an intelligible
meaning in this instance, while we remark that the confusion in it is
incompatible with any rational application of the telepathic hypothesis.
The first indication of his presence is in the first sitting on
December 23rd, 1898, but it is so slight that I should never have sus
pected it but for the evidence of its connection with later develop
ments. In this sitting the short communication occurred : " Do you
remember who you used to call Ell . . . el ( 1 ) . . . not
distinct. . . . Where is Robertson 1 " (p. 310). I took this as a
confused attempt to get the name of my brother Robert, but later
passages in which it occurs (Cf. pp. 317, 332) rather indicate that it is for
" Robert's son " and an inquiry for me, as he always called father by
the name of Robert. The "Ell ..." and "el . . . " are
broken attempts at the name of his wife, as we shall learn from the
next message (p. 314).
In the second sitting, December 24th, the following occurred : " What ia
it ? E * * [undec.] Elsie El . . . is . . . Elsie. (S. : 1 don't know
that name.) Eliza . . . Eliza (S. : Are you calling Eliza ?) Yes. (S. :
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 91
Yes, I understand.) I am, James. (S. : Yes. What do you wish to
say to her?) Give my love (S. : Yes, I will.) and tell her not to get
discouraged. She will be better soon. Understand ? (S. : Yes, I under
stand.) I often see her despairing. Where is she now, James ? I will go
there soon. (S. : She is at home. Do you know why she grieves ?)
[Hand points towards invisible.] Yes, because I left her. But I really did
not leave her. I wish I could tell you all I would like, you would not
think I had left entirely. I feel much better now. She thought she saw
me in her sleep. I was there. Father, father, father . . . going . . .
going . . . going . . . be back soon." [Dr. Hodgson made a remark
to me explaining the meaning of this last, and the communication began
again.] : ' Oh if you only knew how glad I am to see you, you would be glad,
because it will be a help to me to go on in my life and keep her from
feeling any pain. (S. : Yes, tell all you can.) Will you comfort her?
She ought not to be lonely. I am trusting to Him [Imperator] to help me to
speak plainly. (S. : Yes, I will comfort her.) I am glad, so glad. Are
you still here ? I will look and see. I have not been here very long, and
yet I would not return for all I ever owned, music, flowers, walks,
drives, pleasures of all kinds books and everything. I do remember
all here so well. What can I do to help you all to know I live still. (S. :
Tell me all you can of your life here on earth.) Oh I should have much to
do. Where there is light I will always be. Mother, mother, going, going."
Here my father returned to take my uncle's place, and asked me
if I knew " uncle Charles," saying, " He is here." When I said that
I did not know any such uncle, he replied that he was not a real uncle,
and that I must remember what he meant (p. 316). James Carruthers
married my father's sister, and it occurred to me that the " uncle
Charles " was an attempt to give his name. This, with the pertinent
indications of his identity in his own communications, gave me a
a definite clue upon which to depend in the future. He succeeded
this time in the name of his wife Eliza, and it is interesting to note
that it started with nearly the same form whose meaning I did not
suspect in the first sitting (p. 310 and above). The allusion to her
despair had, as a fact, more pertinence than I knew, and than such
a general and expected observation would usually imply, though I
cannot treat it as evidential. (See Note 7, p. 353.) I found also on
inquiry of my aunt that the mention of music, flowers, etc., contained
very pertinent indications of some of his pleasures and habits in life,
about which I knew nothing.
Apparently there is an interpolation by my father during my
uncle's communications. At least the language : " I feel much better
now. She thought she saw me in her sleep. I was there, father,
father," connecting the passage with his disappearance a few minutes
before, and the fact that my aunt Eliza, who is referred to here, did
have a vivid dream in which she saw my father a short time after my
uncle's death (Cf. p. 355), favour this interpretation. Possibly also the
92 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
resemblance of the words " mother, mother," etc., in the original to
" brother," as the two are very often written much alike, may suggest
the same conclusion, as my father was my uncle's brother-in-law.
A little later in the same sitting he reappeared, and a remarkable
colloquy took place, upon which I shall comment in the discussion of
the dramatic play of personality, but there was little evidential matter
in it. Following father's departure from the "machine," he said :—
What can I do to help Eliza feel that I am not dead ? (S. : Tell us who
are with you, and that will help Eliza.) Yes, all you shall know each one
in her. . . You are not Robertson (?) are you? (R. H. : Is that
Ruber!sou ?) You are not George, are you? (S. : No, I am not George.)
(R. H. : I am not . . .) No, James, I know you very well, but this
other one. . . did you know the boys ... do you know me ?
(p. 317).
The interest in this lies in the query whether Dr. Hodgson was
" Robertson," possibly Rector's mistake for " Robert's son," (Robert
Hyslop's son.) I supposed in the query "you are not George," the
name of my brother, that he was asking this of me and I said I was
not, so that the next remark was very pertinent, while the ignorance
about Dr. Hodgson is a curious reflection upon the telepathic hypothesis
after his many years' acquaintance with Mrs. Piper's trance
personalities.
In the sitting of December 26th (p. 332), apparently my uncle again
communicated. He asked : " Where is Eliza?" and said, "I remember
her and Robertson." W7ith some further incoherent statements bearing
traces of the temporary loss of the sense of personal identity, he
disappeared as father broke in with the curious remark : " Yes, Hyslop.
I know who I am and Annie too," at least apparently indicating
very clearly a consciousness of the situation and of the disturbed
consciousness of identity in my uncle.
My uncle did not appear again personally in this series of sittings,
nor in those of Dr. Hcxlgson. But my father, in the sitting of
December 24th, evidently alluded to the event of his death, as well as
that of another uncle, in his message of consolation to his two sisters
for their sorrow, saying : " What is their loss is our gain," a very
characteristic phrase of his in alluding to the incidence of death (p.316).
In the sitting of May 29th my father mentioned this uncle and tried
to give his name, as already quoted, but got no nearer than" Clarke,"
or " Charles," (p. 422). These names were also repeated by him on
May 30th, and "Chester " added (p. 431). On May 31st (p. 442) the
letters " E. E. El . . . ." came and nothing more, until later in the
sitting (p. 445) when Rector wrote: "Clarke is here again." I was
immediately asked: " Do you know me 1 Do you remember James ? "
This was the Christian name of my uncle, and I asked for the rest,
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 93
,and evidently Rector replied : " And it is Clarke. Both are here
. are speaking to you." I asked : "Is it James that speaks to
me 1 " and the reply was : " Yes, there were two James, and do you
remember an uncle. (S. : Yes, I remember, and uncle James what 1 )
Well, it is he. (S. : Which uncle James ?) H . . . James Mc."
Here I recognised James McClellan by saying, "Yes, that is right "
(p. 445). But the sitting came to an end before anything more could
be made clear. On June 1st father referred to him again as "Clarke,"
and said, in response to my question whether he had anything to do
with his sister, that it was "only by marriage," and that he was on his
side, both of which were correct and suggested his identity (p. 450).
When I asked what brought him to his side, the answer came
" Why do you not remember of his coming here suddenly, James 1
(S. : Yes.) It was pneumonia." The answer " pneumonia " was false
for the uncle Carruthers just mentioned, but true for the uncle James
McClellan, spoken of a few minutes earlier (p. 450), and then followed
an allusion to " the accident that I could not make clear " which
nearly answers my question as to the cause of my " uncle Clarke's "
death (p. 450). My uncle Carruthers died suddenly from the effects
of a railroad accident.
On June 5th he appeared personally, announced by Rector in the
sentence, " Here is Clarke." Uncle follows.
" Give my love to N. [Hand tightens in excitement, and pencil is
nearly forced out from fingers. R. H. lays his hand gently over it.] Give
. . . Give my love to Nan. And let me think a moment. I am a little
anxious to tell you first about yourself. I left so suddenly I had no
time for anything. I am all right now, only my head troubles me
when speaking. Wait for me. And do you remember Rice " (?) (R.H. :
Rice?) [Assent.] [Then hand dissents violently.] (R.H. : No.) "Yes
. . . Piece (?) Pierce. I say Pierce . . . D." (S. to R.H. :
I don't remember him.) (R.H. : Say so.) (S. : No, I do not remember
him, but you may say something about him and I shall inquire.) "DR.
Pierce. Lidia. Lida... LI... Lid a." (S. : Yes, I
remember Lida. What relation is she to me ?) " Annie and she are cousins.
Lida. Aunt." (S. : Yes, which Annie is cousin of her 1) " There is a sister
Annie and a cousin Annie and Aunt Lida. She was an aunt to James
Hyslopif I remember rightly and there is a sister in the body by that name,"
and there followed the remarkable relative clause in the person of my
father: " Which is the one I failed to mention . . . and I had to come
to straighten out uncle Clark's mind, James. I am your father. I had to
come and help uncle Clarke straighten out his thoughts." (p. 459.)
The whole passage is a remarkable one, and has many features of
identity in it. For reference to " Nan " see p. 536. The name
"Dr. Pierce," first "Rice," is an apparent attempt to give the
name of Dr. J. P. Dice, who was my father's physician, a friend of
94 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
the Carruthers family, and who waited on father in my uncle's
house during father's last illness. The letter D is significant for
this interpretation. My uncle would know, of course, that I would
recognise this doctor, and it was a good device for identifying himself
in the absence of the ability to get his own name clearly. The name
" Lida " was that of my sister, and she was so called in order to
distinguish her from this aunt Eliza for whom she was also named.
My uncle always called his wife " Liza " in familiar address. Coming
in close connection with " Lida " the mistake is a natural one. The
mention of my sister Annie was right, and if my conjecture (p. 536)
is right, namely, that this " cousin Annie " is Rector's mistake for
cousin Nannie, the relationship between her and my sister " Lida " is
rightly named. It was also correct that this sister " Lida " was the
one that my father had not yet mentioned, for whom I had asked
previously without hinting at whom I wanted (p. 460).
In the same sitting a little later, my brother Charles alluded to
this " Dr. Pierce," and said : " He was a friend of uncle Clarke's, and
he is still over there " (p. 463). Both statements are true of this Dr.
J. P. Dice, whom I interpret this " Dr. Pierce " to mean. No further
communications came either from my uncle or about him, except in
the sitting of June 7th, when my father again alluded to him (p. 485),
in connection with the incidents of our conversations in February,
1895, regarding this subject of spiritism. Father referred in this com
munication to an alleged experience of my "uncle Clarke," which I
could not verify, and which was said to be a " notification of his
sudden coming." His death was a very sudden one, from a railway
accident, as already indicated.
The most interesting feature of the communications from my uncle
personally, and concerning him by others, is the difficulty that they
offer to the telepathic hypothesis. They are by no means so clear as
those from my father. But the names, incidents, and relations involved
are just as clear or unclear in my own mind and memory as the facts
about anybody else. There is absolutely no intelligible reason, from
the standpoint of telepathy, why there should be any more confusion
in his case than in that of others, but we have in the actual messages
exactly the personal equation and differences that we ought to expect
on the spiritistic theory in dealing with different communicators.
There is not very much of special significance that apparently came
directly from this uncle. There is much confusion and the most
important name attempted, that of Dr. J. P. Dice, was only given
partially. In fact the statements made about my uncle by my father,
that he was my uncle ; that he was related to my father only by
marriage ; that his death was very sudden ; and the attempts to give
his name Carruthers, were perhaps as suggestive of his identity as any
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 95
that came directly from this uncle himself. On the other hand, the
name of his wife, Eliza ; the reference to her despair and loneliness,
the special character of which I did not know ; the mention of the
" talks, walks, drives, flowers, music and pleasures of all kinds," which
represented actual facts in his life of which I was not aware ; the
statement that he had not been long deceased ; the name and relation
ship to me of my sister Lida in conjunction with the name of my aunt
Eliza, his wife, form together, in spite of the confusion in his attempts
to communicate, a group of statements which cannot be entirely
ignored.
Robert Harvey McClellan.
It will be found that the communications of my cousin bear the
same characteristics of confusion in most cases as those of the uncle just
considered. He died in 1897, about a year after my father, but was
neither mentioned nor admitted as a communicator until my last series
of sittings. In the sitting of May 29th my father evidently alluded
to this cousin when he gave the name " McCollum," saying that " he
came over some time ago " (p. 422), and later " McAllan," when he
spoke of him as " cousin " (p. 423). Early in the sitting for May 30th, my
cousin appeared personally, and began an interesting communication
as follows, opening it with a remark that apparently indicates that he
had been present some time before.
I ain still here. I have been wondering if you remembered anything
about me. I am your cousin H. H. McAllen. Dont ... do you not
hear me ? (S. : Yes, I hear you. I shall be glad for you to go on.) I am
with you still you see. Do you remember Wallace . . and Williams,
the Williams boys, I mean. I am at the moment trying to think what
became of Robert. Speak to me for God's sake and help me to reach . . .
(S. : Yes, I remember Robert, but which Robert is it ?) I think you say
which Bob is it : well Hyslop. (S. : That's right.) I mean Rob Hyslop
of course. Which other could I mean 1 (S. : Yes, I remember him. He is
in Cincinnati.) Give him my greetings. I am a little dazed for the moment,
but have patience and I will be clear presently (p. 427).
The reference to Wallace and Williams is unintelligible. My
cousin's initials should be "R. H." instead of "H. H." My cousin
was very much interested in my brother Robert Hyslop, for reasons
that are too personal to explain, and which are connected with this
brother's conduct. He gave his name as Robert rightly, and then
refers to him as he was usually called in the family, namely, as Rob.
After an allusion to his being dazed he referred to a foot that was
injured on the railroad, and connected it with my brother Robert
(p. 428). This was false, and I intimated as much. A little later he
connected the same accident with the name " Will," which is the name
9G [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
of another brother of mine. This was false again, but I did not
intimate the fact. But at this point G. P. suddenly appeared and said
that Imperator had sent him. I was then asked a question by my
cousin that might imply from the context preceding that the accident
was connected with George, the name of my brother again, though it is
also the name of his own son. But the reference of the accident to
either of them would be false. It would apply to my " uncle Charles "
(Carruthers). The narrative continues :—
" James, was it George I have been trying to think . . . where
is . . . and do you remember Peter who was ... or belonged to
Nanie. (S. : I do not recall Peter now, but I remember some one by that
name) here. (S : I do not know whether he is there or not. Is he on your
side ?) Yes, we say yes. I am W. H. McAJlen [?]. The name does not
sound right to us friend. It is he says Mc .... sounds like Mclellen.
G. P. : Yes, I am he." (S. : Yes, I am very glad to hear from you. What
relation are you to me ?) Your cousin. (S. : That's right.) " After another
remark or two my next question was : " Do you remember what I was doing
when you saw me last 1 " And the reply was : " Yes, you were writing,
teaching, I believe. (S. : Don't you remember a meeting in which ] spoke ?)
[Much excitement.] " Oh yes, oh yes. Oh yes. Oh yes. But I could not
exactly remember just what it was. (R. H. calm) but I could not exactly
remember juatwhat it was. And have you any knowledge of Merritt." He
then disappeared (p. 428).
His name was not quite right, but it finally comes very nearly right ;
G. P.'s statement was correct enough for all evidential purposes. He was
also right in general as to what I was doing when I last saw him, which
was at the time of my father's death. He it was that arranged for a
meeting which I addressed on the issues of the last presidential campaign,
and though the recollection of it was not suggested by my question,
his recognition of it when I mentioned it was very characteristic. He
always expressed himself in precisely this manner and language
when something was recalled to his memory that he had forgotten.
His wife remarked the fact to me spontaneously when she saw the
record. But the name Peter, and its connection with " Nanie " and
its possible connection with George had no meaning to me. In the
sitting for June 1st, however, my sister Annie communicated for
this cousin as an intermediary and asked : " What is meant by
Peter? Was it the dog George had?" I saw by this that the
George evidently referred to his own son, the older, and whose
name is George. When West, I inquired first of the younger son,
Jamie, whether his brother George ever had a dog by the name of
Peter, and was answered in the negative, and on his expressing
curiosity to his mother behind my back as to what I could mean by
asking such a question, my cousin overheard his motlu r seriously say
that it was true. She told me the next day that it was a little ugly
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 97
black dog that George had when he was between two and four. George
himself did not remember it when I asked him some days afterward in
another city, but he did recall another dog that he had when he was
between five and six. Further correspondence with the mother showed
that they were both right, as he had had the two dogs. I knew
nothing of the fact, and my note shows (p. 515) that there is nothing
to make this judgment improbable. My sister can be supposed to
have gotten the information about the dog from my cousin Robert
McClellan. My cousin has a living sister Nannie, but she remembers
nothing of the dog, and the reference to " Nanie " remains unin
telligible. I could also find no meaning among my connections in the
reference to Merritt.
Later in the same sitting my father (p. 433) alluded to him as
" Robert cousin," and as having mentioned my brother Robert, and
foiled my father's desire to do that himself. On May 31st (p. 438)
there was a communication, apparently about a John McClellan whom
I never knew, and it terminated with a communication apparently
from my cousin Robert McClellan, who asked the pertinent question ;
"Do you know where Frank Hyslop is?" as he was interested in my
brother on account of the latter's bad health. Supposing, as I did,
at the outset, that I was communicating with this John McClellan,
a stranger to me, I asked where he knew Frank Hyslop, and got
the correct answer—for my cousin : " Well, of course I know him and
all of my cousins. Why shouldn't I, James." The pertinence of the
names Hathaway and Williams is explained in my notes (see Note 94,
p. 535). All that he said about my brother, namely, that he was going
to be a doctor was false. He was correct in saying that his own wife
was on this side (p. 440). Later he gave a clearer message. He tried
to continue for a moment, but had to be told (p. 442) by Rector
to "go out and come in again with the message." Rector then
said that he had said something about " Lucy," which was in fact
the name of his wife still living (cf. pp. 421, 452). A very complex
passage followed, which I shall unravel in the more elaborate discus
sion of mistakes and confusion. (Cf. pp. 231-235.) He gave the
Christian names and relationships of several persons, though in so
confused a manner that I shall not duplicate the later explanation
of it.
After this my cousin did not appear again personally until the
sitting of June 6th. But in the sitting for June 1st my sister Annie
gave the names " Jennie and Lucy " together, and said that this
Lucy was on this side, which was true (p. 442). I knew nothing
whatsoever of " Jennie," but found by inquiry in the West that she
was the sister of my cousin's wife Lucy. I had never known her. She
is still living. In the sitting for June 5th my brother tried to give
H
98 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph D.
a name which was in reality that of this cousin's wife, and came nearly
doing it. The message was :—■
But he [father] often speaks of Lucy. (S. : Yes, can you finish that
name Lucy? L U C I N ... LUCY .. . who ** [undec.] Mother,
mother ... L It is L U C y I am speaking about. L an * * [undec.]
L U C y. No I cannot, James. (S. : I know what it is.) I will try again
to make him hear. L U C y . . . A . . . Annie .... will help me for
a moment. I do not think it is wise, will return again when I can speak
louder. 1 am not confused, am I ? (S. : I think not, but what relation was
she to me ?) Well, I got it all but the Hyslop. (S. : Was she very close to
me ?) [Hand shakes slightly to indicate not understanding.] Say that again.
(S. : Was she very close to me when she was living ?) [My question was put
in this form (c/. p. 309) to see if he had in mind my twin sister, Luella,
though I felt it was intended for my cousin's wife.] Yes, very, and would
have remained so, but not a sister, nor a cousin, nor an aunt, James, but it
is on my mind, and I would like to tell you all I can about her, but I am a
little weaker just now (p. 464.).
But as Mrs. Piper was coming out of the trance she gave the name
in full. "Tell Hyslop. Lucy . . . Lucy . . . McClellan"
(p. 466).
I, of course, knew what the name meant as soon as it was mentioned
the first time (p. 421), but I wanted to see it completed, especially as
my cousin himself was so confused in his messages. The believer in
telepathy may note the interesting mistake of Rector in thinking that
my brother Charles ought to have said Lucy Hyslop. There was no
Lucy Hyslop and I was thinking all the while of Lucy McClellan
until Hector said " Hyslop." There was some confusion after this
possibly due to my question about my twin sister, as the reply shows,
apparently implying that this Lucy is on the " other side," which
is not the fact. The first part of the answer, "Yes, very, and would
have remained so" can apply to my twin sister Luella that I had
in mind, but the latter part fits Lucy McClellan, who was neither a
sister nor aunt, and was a cousin only by marriage. It is possible,
that, because of this confusion and Rector's discovery of his mistake,
a special effort was made to give the name as Mrs. Piper returned
to consciousness, and the effort succeeded. (For similar cases of
success as Mrs. Piper returns to consciousness compare Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., pp. 305-6, 310 and 372). At the next sitting, June
6th, my cousin appeared near the beginning of it, and gave me the
following message which was unintelligible to me at the time, except
the allusion to Lucy.
" Is James Hyslop here ; if so, give him my love and say it is as I would
have it, and I shall always feel as I did before ho went away. I want very
much to say something to him, but how can I ? [Pause.] I want to return
as soon as possible and free my mind. I have much to talk over with him.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 99
My name I gave to Mr. Clarke, and told him to say I was here. LU C Y (?)
(S. to R. H. : What's that?) LUCY. Where is the book of poems?
Ask him if he knows what I am thinking about ? " His place was then
taken by my father (p. 469).
I found on investigation in the West that my cousin's sister Nannie
had given him, and read to him very frequently during his last illness,
a lxiok entitled, " Morning Thoughts," every chapter of which closed
with a poem, usually of some length. Taken altogether, his communi
cations are neither clear nor rich in evidential material. Without the
mass of evidence in the messages of my father, these of my cousin
would perhaps not carry much weight alone, though my experiments on
the Identification of Personality (pp. 537-623) show that we are
entitled to give them some value, even independently of the better
results of my father. For we saw in those imitative experiments how
little evidence is necessary to correct identification of a communicator.
If telepathy he once excluded, therefore, the spiritistic theory could
easily triumph. The evidence for identity may remain the same on the
telepathic hypothesis. Some of the best incidents eliminating acquisi
tion from my memory are found in the messages pertaining to my
cousin. They are the dog Peter, the connection of Jennie with Lucy,
possibly the book of poems, and more remotely the " aunt Nannie,"
applicable to his sister. Had he been as good as my father, the
record would in all probability have been full of incidents transcend
ing my mind. As it is, the confusion which he shows illustrates again
the remark made of my uncle's messages, that on the telepathic hypo
thesis there ought to be no such differences between communicators
when the data of my mind are the same for all, and were plentiful
enough regarding my cousin to have expected, on that theory, many
more and clearer communications.
Recapitulation.
Somewhat as in the case of my uncle Carruthers, the statements
that came directly from this cousin gain much of their significance
from the information offered by other communicators. Thus he prac
tically succeeded in telling me he was my cousin McClellan, but
his first name, Robert, was supplied later by my father. Again he
mentioned Lucy, but the name McClellan in connection with it was
given by Mrs. Piper's returning consciousness as the trance was over.
So also it was my sister's inquiry about the dog Peter that gave
significance to his vague expressions on this point. It is worth
noticing that only in the group of associations likely to be immediately
and primarily stimulated by my presence were the facts approximately
clear. These were his name and relationship to myself, the " Hyslop
boys " and my father, calling him " uncle Hyslop," and his particular
100 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
inquiries after my brothers Rob Hyslop and Frank Hyslop. Attempts
to get beyond this apparently resulted only in vague or erroneous
statements, as when he said that my brother Frank or one of my
other brothers intended to be a doctor, and that my brother Robert or
Will had met with an accident on the railway. Although the small
group of facts which I have mentioned indicates clearly enough what
person is concerned as communicator, there is perhaps scarcely anything
characteristic of him except the repeated phrase, " Oh yes, Oh yes."
Statements oj my brother Charles.
This brother died, as already remarked, in 1864, when he was but
four and a half years old. I have mentioned above the incidents which
he gave in the first sitting to indicate his identity, and shall repeat
them briefly. But the chief interest that attaches to them generally
is also the same as that of my sister's, namely, their power to suggest
difficulties in the theory of telepathy. Many of them do not profess
to be personal experiences of his own, but were avowedly those of the
persons for whom he acted as an intermediary. They show inexpugn-
ably, in all ordinary conceptions of the process, an internal contra
diction in the telepathic hypothesis. It is essentially absurd to say
that telepathy could not get access to my memory or other living
consciousness in terms of association with the person whose identity
they are to prove, but can be effected under another name which is
that of a pertinent person who never knew the facts. It is simply to
say that telepathy can do with one name what it cannot do with
another and the right name.
It will be recalled that in the first sitting my brother gave his
name and relationship to ine, and stated that he had had a fever, saving
immediately afterward that it was typhoid, which was false ; that
he had had a very bad throat, which took him out ; that it was in the
winter and that he remembered seeing it snow (p. 310). He also
referred in this sitting to my mother's sister, saying that she was
living before he passed out and that she had died after my mother.
This was true. He said that Mary was the name of my father's sister,
and Elizabeth that of my mother's. The former was correct, the latter
should have been Eliza, as I had to ascertain bv inquiry. But it was
not the name of the sister referred to as having passed out after my
mother. I did not know that my father's sister was named Mary. I,
heard of her only as Amanda. She died before I was born. In the third
sitting he responded to my question asked in the first that he had had
scarlet fever (p. 330). All these incidents were true with the one
exception mentioned. In the sittings of December 24th and 26th
there were some brief and non-evidential communications except one
incident from this brother (pp. 313-3H, 330).
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trange Phenomena. 101
On May 31st, when I was present myself and just after my cousin
liobert McClellan had been communicating in the first half of the
sitting, Charles followed with a most interesting set of messages. He
said :—
James, I am your brother Charles and I am well and happy. Give my
love to the new sister Hettie and tell her I will know her some time. Father
is . . . often speaks of her. (S. : Father often speaks of her ?) Yes.
Do you hear? (S. : Yes I hear.) Well, it was Frank who had the pictures
and father would like you to have them if you are still in the body, James.
Speak to me. (S. : Yes, I shall have the pictures, Charles.) He asked me
to say this for him. His voice troubles him a little when trying to speak.
(S. : Yes, I understand.) But if you could only see his delight when he
hears you, I am sure, my dear brother, you would never doubt that he
still clings to you. It is his one desire to comfort and help you, but he
wants you to go home and rest there (p. 440.)
The chief interest in this passage is the manner in which he
speaks of my sister Hettie. He died in 1864, and she was born in
1874. He alludes to her, therefore, in precisely the proper way, and
the remark that "father often speaks of her" is exactly what he should
say consistently with the statement about her as a " new sister."
Father's pictures, which it is said I should have, were left with Frank
in the sense that he was living with father at the time of his death,
though spending the summer at my brother's. It would have been
truer, however, to have said that he left them with my stepmother.
The hypothetical clause, " if you are still in the body," is very
curious. It seems to imply the existence of conditions intermediate
between the present life and the one claimed for himself (Cf. p. 332).
The last sentence of my brother's message concerning my father's
"desire to comfort and help me" as a subject of common con
sciousness beyond, was as characteristic of father in life as it is in
these sittings.
The next appearance was on June 1st, toward the close of the
sitting.
What about aunt LUCY? (S. : Aunt Lucy who ?) Charles is
speaking this, and he came here quite young. She was related to the other
mother, wasn't she ? (S. : Do you mean the mother on this side ?) Yes, I
do. (S. : Well, can you tell what her other name is ?) John can as he
knows her very well. Ask him when he gets here, if that is you James.
(S. : Very well. That is all right ) And what happened to the chimney
after I left? Do you not remember? (S. : Yes, I remember it.) And
wasn't it taken down? (S. : Yes, I think so.) I heard father talking
about it to mother some time ago ... I mean the chimney, James.
(S. : Yes, I remember it well.) Well, all right, 1 am not worrying about it.
Only I remember how cold it was before I left (p. 455).
The " aunt Lucy " is either meaningless or a mistake for my cousin,
Lucy McClellan, and she is not related to my stepmother at all, as she
102 [part
J. H. Hyslop, PhD.
is only my cousin by marriage. I can make nothing of the reference to
John, unless it be the John McClellan of previous communications
(p. 438). He was either the grandfather of Robert McClellan, Lucy
McClellan's husband, or the John McClellan of earlier communica
tions (p. 111).
But the allusion to the chimney is very pertinent. There was
a tall unseemly chimney on the kitchen, which was built in 1861.
It was blown down in a cyclone in 1884, ami just such an object
as my father and mother would pick out for my brother to mention
to me. But we can hardly assume that my brother would recollect
it, although my mother might well mention it to him, as it was
built when he was about a year old, and he was four and a half
when he died. This assumption that he might remember it is not
necessary, as he here creates an additional complication for telepathy
by virtually disavowing the fact as one of personal knowledge in
life, and represents it as acquired on the " other side." The incident
itself is well calculated to suggest family connections at least.
On June 5th, following father's communication about my brother
George's guitar, he began a most interesting set of messages :—
What is it . . . My step-sister . . . I am Charles. + [Imperator]i
sent tae to take father's place. Hettie 1 did not remember (S. : That is
right.) as she was my step-sister, half-sister, I mean, but I could not think of
it at first. Do you realise, James, how much our leader is helping me
. . . (S. : I shall be glad to hear you go on.) He said—I mean, father
said—you go, Charles, and do the best you can until I can breathe more
freely. Do you remember uncle James Mclellan . . . and Frank
. . . speak . . . Hyslop 1 (S. : Yes, I remember Frank Hyslop
well.) He is not here yet. He is over there somewhere. Father spoke to me
of him a few moments ago. (S. : That is right.) You see father forgets
nothing, but he cannot say all that he thinks yet. Who is Dr. Pierce 1
He was a friend of uncle Clarke's, and he is still over there. (S. : Right.)
And perhaps you will take the trouble to find him at the ... * *
[undeo.] . . . Oh, I am getting mixed too. [R. H. puts knife
into hand.] (S. : My brother Charles.) I was ill, wasn't I, very ill,
and when they thought I was getting better I was really coming out. You
do not know this, but aunt Nannie will, I know. I am thinking about father's
war stories. Do you remember them ? And anything about his leg ? (S. :
Yes I do.) and the little . . . James, what became of the little ship
. . . (S. : I do not remember.) Think about the boat. The other boys
must know what I mean. (S. : Yes, I shall ask them about it.) And ask
about the time after I left that they got turned over. I cannot ask them
because I know. (S. : I shall ask them myself this summer.) And what has
become of Robert ? (S. : Robert who ?) Robert Hyslop. (S. : Your brother
Robert ?) Yes. (S. : He is in Ohio.) Well . . . well ... is he well ?
The mark of the cross is frequently made to indicate Imperator.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. lO'-i
(S. : Yes, he is well.) Are those his children ? (S. : I do not under
stand.) No . . . No it was only interruption ... I am think
ing of my brother. (S. : That is right.) And he has some trouble with his
eye . . . one . . . eyes. Yes, eyes. (S. : Yes, I think that is
right.) Yes, it surely is right, and I am going to see what I can do to help
him. I will do better for you bye and bye. James. Do not get impatient
with me. I was all right, and I tried to do right always. Don't you think
so. (S. : Yes, I do think so.) I want very much to help you to find us all. I
could not stay away. We had one other sister, didn't we, or you did.
(S. : Yes.) I mean you did. (S. : Yes, that is right. Can you tell her
name ?) Yes, Lida . . . (S. : Yes.) was her name, (S. : Yes, that is
right.) and father knows more about her than I do, but often tells me
about them, and of another one named like her. Li L i z z
Lizzie Li no not exactly,
but Eliza . . . . beth . . . Eliza ... I am not not quite sure of
this, James " (p. 462).
Following this came the passage about Lucy which I have quoted
above (p. 101).
This long communication is full of interesting and evidential points,
though not for the communicator himself, except perhaps in one detail,
that of the reference to his half-sister. The message starts with an evident
word on the "other side," as if trying to be sure what he was to say.
That he could not remember Hettie is apparent from what I have
already said above (p. 101). The correction from stepsister to half-
sister is interesting, as the latter is the correct form. The names of
my brother Frank and uncle James McClellan are correct, and it is also
correct that this brother is still living. He was born three years after
the death of my brother Charles. Assuming the "Dr. Pierce"
mentioned to be intended for Dr. J. P. Dice, the statement about his
being a friend of " uncle Clarke's " is also true. The allusion to his
own illness and death cannot be verified, as only father and mother
were present when the end came. The reference to father's war
stories and his leg is very pertinent (Cf. p. 454). My brother died just
at the close of the civil war in 1864, and, as said above, father was
prevented from taking part in that strife by an injured spine and leg.
The " ship " incident cannot be verified, and probably refers to a toy,
if we allow ourselves any conjectures in this connection. It might be
supposed to have reference to some accident, " turning over " of a boat,
in connection with my brothers. But there was no stream of water
near us for any enjoyments or accidents of this kind. The name of
my brother Robert was correct, but he was not suffering from sore
eyes. My brother Will was suffering from some difficulty with his eyes
at the time, having gotten poisoned, as supposed, some time previously.
The allusion to children, however, is explained by Rector to be an
interruption. As my sister Hettie and brothers Frank and Robert were
104 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
mentioned in order, it is possible that during the interruption indicated
my brother Charles passed in thought to my brother Will. The state
ment about my other sister and the giving of her name as Lida is
correct. She was six and Charles four and a-half years old when he
died, so that father would know more about her than my brother.
The other " named like her " is evidently my aunt Eliza, the name here
being correct, and subject of frequent mention in this record. My
sister Lida (Eliza) was named for this aunt.
The chief value of this communication lies in the fact that it com
pletely breaks up every principle upon which telepathy can claim a
point de repere and method for its acquisitions. There is no principle
of association in my memory, or that of any living person, by which
these incidents could be telepathically obtained in the personality of
my brother Charles. The communication is a piece of constructive
intelligence which gets its unity wholly from the standpoint of real
spirits. There is every mark of an independent intelligence in the
telling of the facts, and an intelligence that never knew some of them
personally while living, but has to get them on the " other side " in the
same way that we should in actual life, namely, by conversation of
some kind, as it is actually stated in the messages.
Recapitulation.
The statements coming from this communicator that are apparently
presented as conscious recollections of his own are, as we might expect
from a boy who died thirty-four years previously at the age of four
and a-half years, very few. The sorrect statements are that he was
my brother Charles, that he had died with a very bad throat of a fever
(first wrongly described as typhoid, and afterward rightly as scarlet
fever), that it was winter, and that he rememliered seeing it snow,
snow having fallen as a fact at the time of his illness and death, and
that he died before his mother. Another statement possibly implied
that he had never known me personally, or at least had no remembrance
of me, yet I was at home with him during his short lifetime (p. 309).
The other statements made by Charles apparently depend on infor
mation received by him on the "other side." Some of them betray an
obscure and imperfect knowledge of relationships and facts, such as
might not improbably arise under the circumstances supposed on the
spiritistic hypothesis; the reference to aunt Lucy, to Frank and the
pictures, the confusion between my brothers Robert and Will, are
instances of this. Beyond his personal remembrances of his earthly
life and some facts either indicated before or given by him as an inter
mediary, perhaps the only significant fresh statements concerned what
happened to the chimney, and his reference to his new sister Hettie,
first calling her step-sister, and then immediately and more correctly,
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 105
half-sister, and his statement made at my first sitting that my mother
had a sister who was living when he died, and that this sister died
after my mother.
Statements ofmy sister Annie (Anna).
My sister Anna died twelve days after my brother Charles, in 1864,
with scarlet fever, when nearly three years old. She was commonly
called Annie by the members of the family since my mother's death,
and possibly often before that event. Only her name appears in my
sitting of December 23rd, and without the relationship to me. In the
sitting for December 26th (p. 331) my brother Charles was apparently
followed by my sister Annie, who seems also to have acted as inter
mediary for one or two statements from my mother. I quote the
passage where I suppose that her communications begin. "Mother
[? brother] ... is here also. (S. : Mother, is that you ?) Yes, we
are all here. Do you know who Sarah is 1 Anne [Anna ?] (S. : Yes,
I know who Annie is.) She wants to see you. (S. : Well, I hope we
can some day.) She says you dream while she lives, and she sends
her love to you."
Sarah, or Sarah Luella, was the name of my twin sister who died
when she was only a few months old, and who was possibly meant by
the "one who is nearer to you than all the rest of us," as mentioned in
the sitting of Decemter 23rd (p. 309). The record continues :—
Where is brother James? (S. : I am brother James.) How you
have changed since I came here. [Cf. fioceedings Vol. XIII., p. 324] Do
you remember anything about my hair ? There is something I wish you to
know. Do you, if you are my dear brother, recall anything about my hair ?
(S. : I am not quite certain.) They took a piece of it away. Did you know
this ? (S. : I think you are right.) I know I am. I know it well, James.
And I remember a little picture of me taken when I was very young. Who
has it now ? I cannot find it and I have thought about it so much. (S. : I
think I remember now. Do you remember Aunt Nannie ?) [Excitement in
hand.] Well, I think I do very well. I was named for her. Has she it ?
(S. : Yes, she has it.) Give her my love and tell sister Annie tells her . . .
Anna not Anna but Annie . . . And I am your sister. (S. : Yes, I
remember you well.) Do you not have anything to say to me. I came here
just after Charles. (S. : Yes, that is right. I am glad to hear from you.)
I tried years ago to reach you. I tried years ago through father. Did you
know this ? (S. : No, I did not know this.) I did. And if auntie is still
in the body she will remember this. Here comes father (p. 331).
The incident of the lock of hair here implied is correct, though such
incidents are too common to be evidential. The allusion to the picture
is also correct, but liable to the same objection as the lock of hair,
though the statement that it was " taken when I was very young " is
interesting for its pertinence as well as its truth. She was not named
106 [part
./. H. Uyslop, Ph.D.
for my aunt Nannie. The correction to Anna here is interesting,
though re-corrected, especially as it was indicated previously that my
mother was present, who,- -I learned from my aunt Nannie,—always
refused to call her " Annie," as she did not like the Scotch " Annie
Laurie," the full name of my sister being "Anna Laura." My mother
insisted on saying " Anna." The statement that she " came here,"—
died,—"just after Charles " is correct. The rest is unverifiable. No
experiences such as are implied in the statement of trying to reach me
through father are remembered in the family.
On December 26th my father spoke of my sister Annie (p. 3:52),
and also on February 16th, in the sitting with Dr. Hodgson (p. 388),
but she did not appear again personally until May 29th in my last series.
On that date she took father's place for a few moments and said :—
Annie ... I want to help father to remember everything because I
c;ime here first and long ago. Do you hear me, James ? Do you remember
the large sled .... the large sled '! (S. : I am not sure.) Sled Sled.
(S. : Yes, I understand.) Do you know the one I mean. I remember you
and the Allen boys had it when I was in the body. Do you remember it i
(S. : No, I do not remember.) Here is father and he is alone again now and
I will go for a moment (p. 421).
It is correct that she "came here first and long ago." But while it
is true that we had a large sled in the country, there were no Allen
boys in the neighbourhood. If the " Allen " be a mistake for
" McClellan " (pp. 122, 123) it is a possible incident, but it is unverified,
to say nothing of the surprise it must awaken in our minds when we
note that my sister was just two years and ten months old when she
died.
On May 29th, just at the close of the sitting (p. 425), she asked :
*' Do you remember how I looked, and the little pansie flowers I pressed
in one of my books." She referred to this again on June 7th, see
below (p. 108).
On June 1st she followed father in a most interesting communication.
"I see you, James. Iam your sister Annie . . . and I am very glad
to meet you here. Pa is better now. (S. : Yes, I am vory glad to see you.)
Do you remember when I came to this life, James? (S. : Yes, I remember
very well.) and did you know I did not see you ? (S. : Yes, I think so.)
But I thought of you a great deal and I am thinking now of Corrn [?] C a
lora [?] what father calls her . . . not quite right . . . C 1 a
C or o [?]. You cannot help me can you, I mean mother. Jennie and
L U C y. (S. : I remember Lucy, but not Jennie. I think there is a
Jennie, but what Lucy is this ?) She is on my mind at this moment and I
want to send a message to her. (S. : Very well, send.) Do you remember
grandmother? (S. : Yes, I remember her well.) Lucy is there and I am
just thinking of her. Father knows about her better than I do. Yes, I
have waited all these years to find you and I helped father when he came
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 107
here. I feel it because I do not remember more for you, James, but you
have changed also. I had a sister-in-law, so I am trying to think of her.
What is it you call her, James? Tell : do you better not. I will tell you
pretty soon . . . very soon. I am sorry 1 cannot say moro, but I hope
to some day. What is meant by Peter ? Was it the dog George had !
(S. : I do not remember.) Can't you ask him ? (S. : Yes, I shall ask him
about it.) [Hand indicates fresh arrival] (p. 451).
The reference to pressing pansies is probably true. (Cf. p. 425.)
The expression " Pa is better now " is very pertinent. Every one
of us without exception always called him "Pa" until after 1877, when
I began to call him "father," as he then lx'gan calling me "James,"
instead of " Jimmie." Three of the others have always called him,
and still call him " Pa," and the sister Annie here mentioned never
knew him by any other expression, though she has in all but this
instance used " father " in these communications. It would be natural
that she should not remember me (if this be what she meant by the
statement " I did not see you "), as she was a little less than three
years old when she died. But she ought to recall me as easily as the
"Sled"! (p. 421). But perhaps the reference more obviously means
that she did not see me a't the actual time of her death, though I
witnessed it. She very gradually lapsed into unconsciousness. Her
asking me if I remembered it, her statement that she thought of me a
great deal, and her remark to me afterward that I had changed also
bear out this interpretation. The broken words " Corrn," etc., are
possibly an attempt to name my aunt Cornelia, or "aunt Cora" as we
always called her. She was my mother's sister and my mother was very
affectionately attached to her. The name Jennie had no meaning to
me, but I found on investigation that it is the name of the sister of
this Lucy McClellan. I never heard of this Jennie before. My sister
Annie never knew her, neither did she know Lucy, so that the state
ment that " father knows about her better than I do " is true enough.
The reference to a " sister-in-law " is true, but there are three sisters-in-
law, and this may be a mistake for the half-sister Henrietta or Hettie.
The incident of the dog Peter I have already explained as referring to
the pet of my cousin George McClellan (p. 515).
The same remarks apply to some of the statements that I made in
reference to the last message of my brother (p. 104). They are the
work of an intermediary.
On June 7th my sister again appears just after father had tried so
hard to get the name of my stepmother. She said :—
How are you, J*mes ? + [Imperator] sent me to speak a moment while
father goes out and returns. I am very glad to be here again. It is I, sister
Annie. (S. : Good morning. I am glad to hear you again.) I perhaps can
help you a little, James. I shall be glad if I can. Do you remember
10S [PAUT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
anything about birds ! (S. : Very little.) about anything I did. (S. : Yes,
I remember only one thing that you did ) Yes, but I remember the birds
very well. (S. : I am glad to hear it.) Will you ask auntie if she remem
bers the one I caught (S. : I shall ask her), and the flowers I pressed.
Will you ask her for me. (S. : Yes, I shall ask her.) I think it was yellow
in color . . . Yes, and I had a little pin-holder I made when I was
in the body. I think she has it now. (S. : I shall ask her.) I hope so.
Here comes father and I am going now (p. 482).
Neither the bird nor the pin-holder incident is verifiable, nor have
they to me any internal probabilities, considering her age when she
died. No one knows anything about the pressing of flowers, though it
has some possibilities. (Cf. Note p. 425).
Recapitulation.
In this instance as in the case of in3' brother Charles, there is little
of the earthly life that we could expect to be remembered by one who
died thirty-four years ago when she was less than three years old, and
it is not very clear which incidents are to be regarded as her own
conscious recollections and which as related to her by others. Her
correct statements were that she was my sister Annie, giving also the
name Anna (perhaps an interpolation by my mother), that she died
long ago just after Charles, that a piece of her hair was taken away,
that a little picture of her was taken when she was very young, and
her reference to Sarah. Her use of the word Pa, the only instance in
the record, was characteristic and is specially noteworthy. But the
statement that she was named after aunt Nannie was a mistake. Her
reference tj the Allen boys, the pressing of flowers, the pinholder, the
birds and her catching of one, her not seeing me when she died, and
the attempt through father to " reach me " after her death cannot be
verified. Other statements from her and perhaps some of the incidents
just mentioned apparently depend on information obtained on the
" other side." The most important of them were the name Jennie in
connection with Lucy and the specific reference to Peter as the dog
which George had.
Statements of my uncle, James McClellan.
James McClellan was my uncle; he married my father's sister for
his first wife, and my mother's sister for his second wife. He died in
1^70 during the winter. His own direct communications were very
clear, but he appeared only twice. His son Robert tried more
frequently, but, as we have seen, was not a good communicator. Just
at the close of the sitting on May 31st (p. 445), James McClellan and
James Carruthers apparently were both present. There was some
confusion at first, at least in my mind, as to who was speaking:—
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 109
"Yes, and . . . yes there were two James and do you remember an
uncle? (S. : Yes, I remember, and uncle James . what?) Well, it
is he. (S. : Which uncle James ?) H James Mc." I saw who
was meant by this and did not press for any clearer statement. I simply
replied, " Yes, that is right." He continued : " and a cousin John. Don't
you remember us both ? (S. : I am not sure of cousin John.) Well, I will
tell you more about myself later, and we will perhaps understand each other
, . . my sister Ann is here with . . . yes [?] Ann. Going."
I found on inquiry that he had a sister Mary Ann, and then
discovered that while at college I had known this sister as Mrs. Mary
Mitchell. It was new to me that her name had Ann in it. My first
information of her death, so far as I am aware, was received in the
,above statements. (Cf. group of names p. 443 and Note 56, p. 510).
On June 1st father remarked on returning from a respite, " I in
tended to clear up about James and John Mclellen before I left" (p.
450). On June 5th my brother Charles asked ine if I remembered my
uncle James McClellan (p. 463). At the sitting of June 6th, imme
diately after my father had answered my request to tell me something
that had occurred before I was born, this uncle appeared personally,
and gave one of the finest set of pertinent and evidential incidents in
the record.
I am here once more. I am James McLellan, if you wish to know and
you are my namesake. (S. : Yes, I remember you and that I am your
namesake.) Yes, all right. We cannot quarrel about that, can we,
James, but I despised the name of Jim. (S. : Very well, I understand.)
What is it you want to know about Frank, or was it John who wanted to
know ? (S. : There was some confusion when Frank was mentioned, and
also when John was mentioned. Who is this cousin John that was mentioned
before ? ) It was not cousin, that was a mistake. (S. : Yes. Is he in the
body or is he in the spirit ? ) He is here, and [Hand dissents violently.] 1
intend to straighten this out, but the light went out and I could not remain
there. He is a brother . . . yes, all right . . . and he will be
here soon. But it is still not straight. Wait and I will explain. You
remember brother John very well, you must if you are James. (S. : Yes,
I remember him well.) He was the one who went to war. (S. : Very
well. Go on.) Let me see. Well perhaps you remember father, do you
not ? (S. : Do you mean your father ?) Yes. (S. : Is this my uncle James
McClellan?) Yes. (S. : No, I do not remember your father.) Well, he
was John. (S. : Very well.) John James McClellan. [James written first.
John written in front of James, then McClellan written after.] (R. H. :
James John McClellan ?) No. John James McClellan. (S. : Very well. 1
understand, and shall inquire about it.) Well, go ahead and inquire. I
think I know. (S. : Well, all right. Please tell me anything you wish to
tell.) I wanted to tell you about his going to the war, and about one of his
fingers being gone before he came here. (S. : Very well, go on, please. I
understand.) And he had a brother David, who had a S U N stroke. (S. :
I understand. That is perfectly new to me. I never heard it before, and it
110 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
pleases me very much to learn this fact.) Well, he never was well after he
received it until he came here. Then one more I wanted to speak of was-
NANCY, but I cannot tell you any more now. (S. : Very good. Thank
you very much. Rest now.) Be brave, upright, honourable, do the best
you can and don't forget your uncle James Mc. Good-bye. (S. : Good-bye,
uncle, for the present.) * * * [undec. James or yourt.] James
McLellan (pp. 470-472).
Now the facts as I have verified them are these : I was his name
sake. I suspected from the statement about his despising " the name
■Hin" that this might be the reason we alwavs called him "uncle
Mack." I asked his two remaining daughters if the statement was
true, and one did not rememlx-r it, but the other did recall it at once,
and told me of several instances in which both he and his wife had
complained of his being called Jim. His father's name was John. If
the James was intended as a part of the father's name it is an error.
I never knew or heard of him, so far as I can recall, though I was
thirteen years old when he died in 1867, and I may, therefore,
once have known something about him. Also the name of my
uncle's brother is John, and him I know well. He is still
living, and in his ninetieth year, so that the prediction that he
will die soon must evidently turn out true. (Gf. Fix)tnote, p. 471).
It was a very pertinent statement to make that I must remember
this John well, as I was at the college of which he was the treasurer,
and my uncle James died while I was in my junior year. It
is interesting to remark the mistake, and what appears to be the
immediate spontaneous correction of it, in the statement about the
war. First he said it was his brother, and then altered this to his
father. It is important to note that the other references in the passage
which I have quoted specially concern this father, and it may be
possible that my uncle James McClellan picked out the incidents
referred to for the express purpose of giving me tests upon matters
unknown to me. I found, as a matter of fact, that James McClellan's
brother John had not been in any war, neither had bis father. But
another John McClellan was commissioned as an ensign on July 15th
in 1810 for the war of 1812.i I found the corroboration of the
statement in the history of Greene County, Ohio, where this other
John McClellan lived. It is only stated that he was commissioned as
an ensign as stated above. No further facts are given. I could get
no confirmation about the lost finger in reference to my uncle's
father, but it was true, it appears, of the other John McClellan
i My latest notes on the incident of John McClellan's part in the war of 1812
involve a correction of some things said in Harper's Mayazinc (Vol. CI., p. i'7), and
in the New York Independent (Vol. LII., p. 750). Note !)4 (p. 535) explains this fully.
xLL] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. Ill
(p. 113). I found also that he had no brother David, but he had a
brother-in-law, David Elder, who had a slight sunstroke just after the
Civil War, somewhere about 1867, according to the testimony of one of
Mr. Elder's living sons, though the other does not recall it. I had very
great difficulty in finding the persons to confirm this fact.i
Nancy was the name of the sister of this David Elder and of the
wife of old John McClellan. It is to be noted that she was mentioned
in immediate proximity to the name of her brother David. She was,
of course, the mother of my uncle James McClellan, the communicator.
I have no more conscious recollection of her than of old John
McClellan.
About half of the incidents mentioned by this communicator were
unknown to me. His correct statements on matters known to me
were that he was my uncle James McClellan, and that I was his name
sake. Mistakes or confusions were illustrated in an earlier reference to
John as a cousin instead of a brother (p. 445), though this was
corrected later (p. 471) ; in saying that this brother had been in the
war and correcting it to his father, both being false ; in saying that
his father had lost a finger ; and perhaps in giving this father's name
as John James instead of merely John. The other John McClellan
had been in the war and had lost a finger (Note 94, p. 534). The other
statements, all substantially correct, concerned his sister Ann and the
fact that she was dead, his despising the name Jim, his father's brother
(for brother-in-law) David, and the sunstroke, and the reference to
Nancy, the name of his mother.
John McClellan.
On May 29th (p. 421), and in close connection with the allusion
to the Cooper incident, father said : " And do you remember John ?
i It was only after the most prolonged inquiry that I obtained the verification
of the most important incidents. I think it is worth while to indicate to the reader
the difficulties that I found in ascertaining the facta about David Elder's sunstroke.
Two of the living sons denied that their father had any brother David. This was
strictly correct, but it was interesting to observe that they did not recall an uncle by
that name who was their father's brother-in-laiv. The third son at first denied it,
and then suddenly recalled his uncle David, naming him as Elder. But he did not
know where he had lived and could not aid me in finding out anything more than the
name. I wrote to the younger brother telling him that I had found an uncle David
Elder, and be then recalled him, but did not know what had become of him, nor
where he had lived. He referred me, however, to his cousin, the daughter of this
David Elder, giving her name and address. I wrote to her and received a reply from
her daughter, saying that her mother had been dead two years—a fact not known or
remembered apparently by her cousin to whom I wrote. Through this daughter of
David Elder's sister I obtained the names and addresses of two of her uncles, sons of
David Elder. They were living in the State of Iowa, and from them I ascertained
that David Elder, their father, had lived many years in that State and had died there
in 1885.
112 [part
J. H. Hyslop,Ph.D.
He has just come to greet you for a moment." The connection of this
name with that of Cooper, as a note shows, led me to mistake the
import of this " John." I can even now only conjecture from later
messages its possibilities. On May 30th (p. 427), my cousin, Robert
McClellan alluded to the "Williams boys," about whom I knew
nothing. But on May 31st (p. 438), at the close of father's first
communication, he said : " Here comes John and Hathaway, and he
is with him here." Immediately following this is a communication
purporting apparently to come from this John, followed by communi
cations from my cousin Robert McClellan. Later incidents indicate'
that this John was meant for John McClellan, who was not a relative
of my cousin. But the communication was : —
" Yes, is James here ? Ask him what can I do for yim, my boy. I am
back, and I feel much freer than I have before. I just waited to clear the
way, and there is a young man here who is very kind to me. Do you
remember yet about Williams ? (S. : What Williams is it ?) He is Frank.
Here apparently my father interrupts with the statement : John is anxious
to know. Speak, James." The communications continue. "(S. : I do not
remember Frank Williams, but tell me more about him, and I may recall
him.) He had two or three boys, sons, they were Arthur, Fred, and Irvin.
You must remember it seems. I am not quite sure that you hear all I say,
but take out as much as you hear. (S. : Yes, I hear it all clearly.) You
may have to find out about them if you do not remember them. (S. : Yes.
I shall try if you tell me where they lived on earth.) They lived not far
from me in Ohio, and I remember Frank very well. (S. : Did Nannie know
them ?) She must have heard about them. (S. : What kind of work did
they do ?) Frank was at the library, and sent the books over to me just
before I left." At this point my cousin, began his communications with
the question: "Do you know where Frank Hyslop is?" apparently
instigated thereto by the name "Frank" (p. 438).
No further personal communications came from this John McClellan
so far as I can determine. But on May 30th (p. 445) the name
"John" and then " Mc John" were connected with a confused
message apparently from my brother Charles, who was followed by father.
That a John McClellan was meant by the name was immediately
indicated by the statement that " there are two of the Mclellen over
here." Then on June 1st father said (p. 448) : "I intended to refer
to uncle John, but I was somewhat dazed, James." (Cf. Footnote
pp. 472-473.) A little later father said again : "I intended to clear
up about James and John McClellan before I left " (p. 450).
There seems to have been some consciousness of confusion which it
was desired to clear up in connection with the name of John McClellan,
as if I was in danger of misunderstanding the relevance of the com
munications. And we have seen above (p. 110) in the communication
of James McClellan that there was some confusion between his own
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 113
father and the other John McClellan, who had been in the war of 1812
and had lost a finger. The sequel showed that the apprehension of the
communicators was justified. For the identification of this old John
McClellan and the discovery of the pertinence of the names and
incidents in connection with him gave me much trouble (See Note 94,
p. 535). I found that the facts did not fit the father of my uncle
James McClellan. But having ascertained that there was another
John McClellan who also lived in Ohio within a few miles of my uncle's
father, I set to work to learn whether the names and incidents in
these communications in any respect applied to him, and I found that
he had been in the war of 1812, that he had lost a finger, probably
in that war, that Hathaway was his son-in-law's cousin, and that he
was himself probably connected with a Williams family, though this
was possibly as far back as 1825 or earlier. He was familiarly called
" old uncle John." This is of dubious importance (Footnote p. 472).
Nothing could be learned about the sons of Frank Williams, Fred,
Arthur, and Irvin. The reader may compare this with Professor Lodge's
incident. (Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 527, 555-557).
Statements of other Communicators.
I may here add a few words concerning the trance personalities and
George Pelham (G.P.), who was the chief subject of Dr. Hodgson's last
report. G.P., as we have seen, acted sometimes as an intermediary for
my relatives, but sent a few messages pertinent to Dr. Hodgson. One
incident in connection with myself I have already mentioned elsewhere.
This was the giving of the name of his brother Charles on June 7th
(p. 486) in response to my statement that I knew his brother in
Columbia University.
By the " trance personalities " I mean Imperator, Rector, Doctor
and Prudens. Their own communications are—the bulk of them—at
the beginning and the end of the sittings, and consist mostly of
conversation with Dr. Hodgson about arrangements for sittings, and
of advice and prayers for ourselves. They have no evidential value for
personal identity, the main problem of my report, whatever they may
be supposed to have for independent intelligence. Hence they can be
studied by the reader himself without comment from me. Once we
were reproved by Rector for eating too fast, and the rebuke seems to
have been merited (p. 437). At the last sitting, June 8th, they under
took to give me a physical diagnosis, which was correct, and specially so
in regard to the weak point in my constitution, saying that it was my
stomach. They also gave me a course of diet which is unquestionably
good, and they showed by their absolute prohibition of all alcoholic
drinks that they would make good teetotalers or Prohibitionists. Their
moral and religious maxims of advice were all that could be expected
of their type, and are exceptionally lofty.
I
114 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
In fact the religious type of character exhibited by them is a most
interesting feature of the whole regime, and it seems to me quite
appropriate to collect here some of the prayers and benedictions that
were offered at the sittings by these trance personalities in the form of
automatic writing. I hardly need remind the reader of the moral and
spiritual character of these personalities that claim to supervise the
communications, but it forms one element, if only a small one, in my
estimate of the problem. In quoting the prayers I shall not include
the repetitions due to our inability to decipher, etc. It appears that
the prayers are probably offered by Imperator, but he does not always
act as the amanuensis in the writing of them. Rector often directs
the writing as the amanuensis, the indication that both are parties to
it being found in the sign of the cross or Imperator's name and the
signature of Rector.
At the close of the sitting of December 27th a sort of admonitory
prayer, followed by a benediction, was offered. It was :—
" Fear not. God is ever Thy guide, and He will never fail thee. We
cease now, and may His blessings rest on thee " (p. 344).
On February 7th, at Dr. Hodgson's sitting in my behalf, at the
end there came :—
" May God in His tenderest Mercy lead thee into light and joy, and may
His blessings rest on thee " (p. 375).
On February 8th also at Dr. Hodgson's sitting in my behalf, and
near the beginning, Imperator acted as his own amanuensis and
wrote :—■
" Holy Father, we are with Thee in all Thy ways, and to Thee we come
in all things. We ask Thee to give us Thy tender love and care. Bestow
Thy blessings upon this Thy fellow creature, and help him to be all that
thou dost ask. Teach him to walk in the paths of righteousness and truth.
He needs Thy loving care in all things. Teach him to do Thy holy will, and
we leave all else in Thy hands. Without Thy care we are indeed bereft.
Watch over and guide his footsteps and lead him into truth and light.
Father we beseech Thee to so open the blinded eyes of mortals that they
may know more of Thee and Thy tender love and care " (p. 375).
At the sitting of June 5th at which I was present, and near the
end, there came :—
"Oh, God, thou allwise Father, give us more light on the returning of
the light, and ere we return to earth * * * [undec.] we may be able to
hear distinctly and clearly the voices of Thy Messengers and all returning
friends. We beseech Thee, Oh Father, to render us thy help in all our
undertakings. Faileth Thy help we are indeed bereft. Merciful Father,
Oh Thou Allwise Merciful God, give us help and light " (p. 466).
xLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 115
Then on June 7th near the beginning came :—
" Oh, Holy Father, Thou Divine Being, maker of heaven and earth, we
beseech Thee this day to send light unto Thy fellow beings. Keep them,
oh Father, in the paths of righteousness and virtue. Lead them to know
more of Thee and Thy wondrous workings for the redemption of their own
souls. We ask for no more, but leave all else to Thee " (p. 477).
Statistical Summary.1
It will aid in a clear conception of the facts in the communications
if we give such a statistical summary of them as is possible. This
cannot be done in the same manner that facts and events of the same
kind usually can be classified, but they can be grouped in a way
suitable to a rough comparison, that will supply the relative number of
true and false incidents with which we have to reckon in making up
our conclusions in the case.
. The basis of classification that has been adopted rests upon the
distinction between the true, the false, the indeterminate, and the
mixed incidents. An incident in the classification does not mean
merely some name or isolated fact, but may include a number of facts
capable of being independent of each other in the course of events.
Hence I have distinguished between an incident and the number of
factors that may constitute it. An incident may be any name, con
ception, or combination of conceptions making a single possible and
independent fact, or it may be any combination of possibly independent
facts constituting some fact that was a single whole in the mind of the
communicator. I shall illustrate what I mean by both applications of
the term. A single proper name may be called an " incident " of one
factor ; so may any proposition indicating some single fact. Or an
" incident " may be such a statement as that " my Aunt Susan visited
my brother." Here there are four factors in the single " incident," that
are not necessarily connected with each other. There is nothing in the
use of the name " aunt " to suggest the name " Susan." nor in both of
them to suggest ta any one either the idea of a visit or that the visit
was paid to a brother. There are any number of possibilities in the
combination of ideas with either the concepts " aunt " or " Susan."
Hence this can be treated as one of the synthetic incidents, as I call
such cases in the discussion of certain problems. Or, again, to say
i Further inquiries made after this statistical summary was drawn up resulted in
showing that some incidents which I had set down as true were false ; that some
incidents which I had set down as false were true ; and that some incidents which I
had set down as indeterminate were true. As the work of tabulating the incidents
was a very laborious one, and as the result of further inquiry had improved the
evidence on the whole, I have not revised the summary, but have preferred to leave
it in the form most unfavourable to the spiritistic theory.
I 2
116 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
that " my uncle hurt his foot on the railway " would be to give one
incident with three factors in it. But I have also chosen to charac
terise by the same term a class of communications which, though they
did not represent a synthetic and single whole in the actual life of the
communicator, yet seem to have that kind of mental unity in the
communicator's mind which allows them to be spoken of as a whole
with a number of factors. The line is not easily drawn between the
synthetic event which was an actual fact in the life of the com
municator and one that is the creation of his mind at the time of the
message. For certain purposes in the argument it does not make any
difference whether we distinguish between them or not, while also the
factors retain all their value whether so connected or not. I have also
often classified as "incidents" a series of communications which,
though they do not represent any single event in life when taken
together, yet represent a natural group of facts in one continued
message. The main line distinguishing between the facts classed in
one incident and those in another will be either the distinctly synthetic
character of one as compared with another, or sufficient interruption
and separation in the messages to justify speaking of two incidents
instead of one. But the factors represent, as indicated, those facts,
names, actions, or events that do not necessarily suggest each other, or
are not necessarily suggested by any given name or fact. This analysis
of a communication enables us to see more clearly how difficult it is
to explain any complex circumstances by an easy theory. It is an
important question in the consideration of chance, where we have to
suppose that the brain of the medium has no clue to follow, either
before any correct start has been obtained, or after it. It will be an
important problem to determine how the unity of consciousness
involved in such cases can be produced without some resort to intelli
gence, whether supernormal or not.
The table in which the facts are summarised does not classify them
with reference to their value, evidential or otherwise, but only with
reference to their truth or falsity. Facts, names, or events, with
out any evidential value, may be classed with those having this quality
in a very high degree. This must be kept in mind when examining the
table, as I do not mean to make the case appear any stronger from the
mere force of figures, though in estimating the relation of the pheno
mena to chance we may safely rely upon this circumstance. I have
often been asked what proportion of truth to error is found in the
record, and I could not answer this query any other way than by
making the comparison which the table gives, but this must not be
interpreted as implying that all the facts have the same evidential
value. The truth is that there are many true incidents that are far
from evidential at all, but they are nevertheless true and capable of
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 117
general comparison with the false. Also I should add that the
classification does not include mere repetitions.
The rules which have governed this classification should be indi
cated. I have classed as false one incident with seven factors because
it is wholly inapplicable to my family, and so false in that relation,
though it might represent a true set of facts capable of proving identity
to the parties concerned. It has been the same with some other cases
classed as false. For instance, certain incidents that might be attributed
to mistakes of memory, such as those to which we are all liable, have
been classed as false, and thus appear to have the negative value that
suggests difficulties, but as false incidents they are very different in
type from those that even suggest the truth that they fail to state.
Similarly I might have treated certain incidents due to confusion of
the communicator at the time. In this it will be apparent that the
number of wholly false incidents might be considerably reduced, but I
have not allowed myself any rights in this matter, but have judged
of the case strictly, leaving to explanations of this kind the modifica
tion which is due the incidents. The false thus obtains, when it does
not represent a mistake, some of the possible characteristics of the
indeterminate, but the true cases have their whole meaning determined
by their relation to the sitter. Whatever apology, however, is possible
for the false as here represented, nevertheless it must have all the
negative force of total error when measured against the true.
The class of indeterminate incident contains two types. First,
there is that class which represents facts purporting to be events in the
earthly life of the communicator, which I could not verify, though they
are possible or even probable ; for example, my father's reference to the
broken wheel. The second class contains alleged incidents in the
transcendental world which it is impossible to verify, but which repre
sent statements on the same level as the verifiable ; for instance, my
brother Charles' reference to his hearing father and mother talking
about the chimney. If rejected altogether they diminish the number
of indeterminate incidents.
The above general explanation will enable the reader to understand
the tabular review which follows. For example, to take the second
sitting out of my first four it is seen, on consulting Table I., that of the
true incidents there were three with one factor each ; one with two
factors ; one with three ; three with four each ; one with six, and one
with eleven ; no incidents that were false ; one that was indeterminate
with three factors, and one mixed incident with nine factors, of which
eight factors were true and one false. The Roman numerals indicate
the number of the sitting in each set.
I must warn the reader that I attach no intrinsic value to this
statistical review, but present it only as a concession to the statistically
118 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
inclined person. Its fundamental fault is that it both puts the most
complex incident on the level of the simplest, and conceals the
evidential importance of all of them in respect of their quality, which
is far more important than mere quantity alone. The review is a con
venient ad hominem argument against those who might wish to appeal
to chance on the basis of mere number, if we once accept the correct
ness of the classification of the incidents, but it cannot affect any
judgment that is not enamoured of figures. Perhaps it has the merit
of affording a sort of bird's-eye view of the number of incidents that
are synthetic as distinguished from those that are simple, and also some
conception of the degree of complexity involved. But all this depends
on the criterion for determining the " single " incident and the amount
of complexity, and hence the table must be treated as merely a rough
attempt to suggest the comparison between the true and false at large
in the record. This one numerical result may have some value.
Tabi.e I.—First Four Sittings.
True Fai.se INDETEIIM. Mixed
Inc. Fac. Inc. Fac. Inc. Fac. Inc. Fac. True. False. Indeterm.
I. 3 2 2 1 2 1 1 2 1 0 1
— — 1 7 — — 1 4 3 0 1
II. 3 1 1 3 1 9 8 1 0
1 2 —
1 3
3 4
1 6
1 11
III. 6 1 3 1 3 1 1 3 2 1 0
5 2 — — — — 1 4 2 2 0
4 3
1 6
1 10
IV. 7 1 1 2 1 3 2 1 0
3 2 — — — — 1 4 :t 1 0
1 4 — — — — 1 5 4 1 0
1 5
Summary 16 1 5 1 5 1 1 2 1 0 1
12 2 1 2 1 3 'J 3 4 1 1
5 3 1 7 — — :: 4 8 3 1
4 4 — — — — l 5 4 1 0
1 5 — — — — l 9 8 1 0
2 6 — — — — l 11 8 2 1
1 10 —
1 11 —
611
-vunuoicdyj
douiMj
ui-vtmq
fo
suotivcutesqo
[the
aiihT umiaHi aaxin
.oni .DDI .DUI .cB.J
I Z 1 X 4
9 z I 9 — — — — — — —
II I I z I 1 z T 0
e Z — — — — 8 f 9 6 0
1 f —
.III I I I 1 1 4 I z 1
Z Z — — — — I z 1 0 1
1 0
1 9
-VI I X Z
V 8 I I 0 8 I 0
Z z — — — — 1 Z 1 0 I
I e
1 9
Z 9
1 8
'fjBUiumg tl I 9 I ■
— c Z £ Z 1
13 z I t — — f I 8 I
I e 1 9 — — I 9 8 1 0
I f —
Z g — —
£ 6 —
1 8 — —
.soHiiiig
s^osyaojj
-H(j
—
jj
snavx
EIiRX Kaaxaavi QEXIK
.HI
J Mill Dill
I 9
9
8
Z
1
z
r.
Z
I
£
I
g
f
8
Z
f
I
£
I
z
I
Z
1
8
■
0
z
I
I I f - —
I
I
I
!l 0
0
0
II
9
I
Z
8
Z
I
I
I
Z
I
8
Z
I
£
Z £
ZI
Z
9
£ 0
8
9
8
- —
7
9
I
I
I Z
I
0
0
0
HI
I
E
t
8
Z
I 1 9
I
I
I
/
I
f.
7
9
<$
9
9
01
8
8
0
I
I I
6
\
z
I
I 0
IV i.
V
£
Z
I I I
\
£
0
9
Z
I
I
0
9
0
0
I
t
-
—
8
I
9
8
I
Z
9
I
11 ;: 0
V I
9
I-
£
Z
I
I
I
Z
I £
£
8
Z
9
0
0
0
0
8
I
— —
I
\
I
I
t 9 z
9
Z
I
Z
0
9
I
81 II ii
.IV z z I 1
8
1
£
I
\
z
91
ZI
£
I
0
0
0
0
Z
I
1
I
z 8
ill
t
I ^
I
I
9 81
IIV
£
Z z
I
I
I
s
9
Z
£
9
£
I 0 I
8
n
i
i z
I
I g - -
\ ni
I
1
I
!l
I1IV
8
o
I
8
8
I —
—
I
8
I
f,
Z
I — — — — —
I
I
I I 9
-Ciuuimng
£Z
H
8
o
I
I
i
9
I 9
8
Z
I
9
£
9
f
8
Z
9o
IZ
9Z
IZ
£1
£ I Z
01
8
91
11
ni
IZ
I
I
I-
9
in T.
I! l 8
:i
i
■
8
!i
i
■ >l I
8
Z
Z
I
I
I
I
'.1 1 I1
£
0
I
0
I
c
9
8 I 0
9 8
01 s ii
81
£1
II 8 8
ez 0
I 91 0 z
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 121
Tabi.e IV.—Totai. Summary.
True Fai.se INDETERM. Mixed
Inc. Fac. Inc. Fac. Inc. Fac. Inc. Fac. True. False. Indeterm.
44 1 11 1 14 1 7 2 7 3 4
48 2 1 2 10 2 11 3 17 5 11
27 3 1 4 5 3 17 4 36 13 19
14 4 2 6 4 4 10 5 30 4 16
6 5 1 7 1 5 5 6 21 I 8
7 6 — — 2 6 6 7 26 11 5
3 7 — — 1 8 1 8 7 0 1
1 8 — — — — 3 9 22 5 0
1 10 — — — — 1 10 3 0 7
1 11 — — — — 2 11 16 5 1
2 13 23 0 3
1 18 16 0 2
152 369 16 36 37 90 66 348 224 47 77
True Incidents. Fai.se Incidents. Indeterminate Incidents.
152 16 37
True Factors. Fai.se Factors. Indeterminate Factors.
717 43 167
The nature of some of the factors makes it impossible to lay any
special stress for evidential purposes upon the discrepancies between
the true and the false, except in treating of the general question
regarding the importance of the phenomena and the consideration of
chance. I have also shown how misleading the class called false is
from the admission of incidents and factors that might be classed with
the indeterminate. Similarly the indeterminate could be reduced by
omitting the incidents having an alleged transcendental occurrence.
This would greatly diminish the ratios between them and the true.
But it is certainly very interesting to find so small a proportion of
errors even when straining the case in their favour. In anything
genuine the indeterminate ought to occur, and it is no less interesting
to find their small ratio in the case. And it is to be specially noted
that the indeterminate incidents increase precisely where we should
expect the living human memory to be defective. Compare my father's
communications respecting his boyhood (pp. 469-470).
The best place to study these classes of incidents is in the
individual sittings where the relations between the true, the false,
and the indeterminate can be seen in their proper proportions. The
total summary has no other value than the comparison of simple and
complex incidents. Thus we find that throughout the whole series of
122 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
experiments, there are forty-four incidents with but one factor in them.
Such cases are more amenable to all sorts of objections than those
which represent a combination of two or more independent factors that
have no necessary connection with each other. Hence the summary
shows the comparative importance of the incidents in so far as the mere
number of factors composing them is concerned. But it does nothing
more, while the individual sittings bring us into a clearer comprehension
of such incidents in detail, and the individual incident when complex
is still better than groups of them for evidential study, except when
taken collectively. But the statistical account affords both a bird's-eye
view of the numerical relations in the whole and an interesting com
parison of the separate series of sittings with each other.
In looking at them, the most striking fact that meets the attention
at once is the great number of mixed cases, as compared with the
wholly false and the indeterminate. Perhaps still more noticeable is
the smaller number of factors that are indeterminate in the mixed
than those that are false. The whole matter, however, must depend
upon the criterion used in the classification of incidents as mixed. If
the line were drawn differently in some cases, we should increase the
number of wholly true incidents and also the number in the false and
the indeterminate. It would not alter the ratio between the true and
the false on the whole, but it would alter the appearance of the table.
But I tried to define the mixed class as strictly as possible.
A very interesting fact also is the difference between Dr. Hodgson's
sittings and my own in respect of incidents of any sort. His fourth
sitting appears to be absolutely worthless evidentially. I thought the
first three should be included in this judgment until my investigations
in the West discovered facts that I had previously supposed were false
or worthless. His last sitting, however, as remarked already, is about
as good as any of those at which I was present. One is tempted to ask
the question whether the presence of someone as sitter who is an inti
mate friend or relative of the communicator may not qualify the latter
for better work, just as some relic is supposed to do this. The question,
of course, cannot be answered positively. But if the communicator's
personal interest in the sitter can improve the messages by influencing
the attention, this view is borne out by my last sitting, in which not a
single mixed incident occurs, and also no false ones. Does not this
circumstance confirm my supposition as to the source of the difficulty
in Dr. Hodgson's sittings 1 The affirmative answer to this must be
purely speculative, and I do not urge it, though it is worth while to
call attention to a coincidence which agrees with the fact that in all
spiritistic phenomena, so-called at least, this peculiar connection between
the sitter and the communicator seems to prevail and to affect the
messages in the way remarked. But whatever explanation be probable,
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 123
it is evident that my last sitting, when I deliberately conversed with
the communicator in a way that I had refrained from doing before,
commanded the communicator's interest and attention, so that I elicited
a clearness in communications which I had not effected before (Cf.
pp. 489-496). Many of the most important and evidential facts in
the experiments were obtained at this sitting.
There is another most interesting fact to be noticed. As the
incidents increase in the number of factors composing them, they
decrease in their own number. This would be natural perhaps, but
it coincides in these experiments with the fact that the communicator
cannot usually remain long in contact with the "machine," and with
the fact that the intervals of respite interrupt the narrative in favour
of beginning new incidents. Hence the most complex incidents seem
to exhaust a period of communication, while a number of simple ones
can be given in the same period. The apparent result would be
altered, however, if some cases classed as single incidents were broken
up into several, though their value would not be changed.
Many of the most important features of the record cannot be
expressed at all in this tabular account. They are statements which
show the proper appreciation of questions, remarks, or other aspects of
a situation, and also incidents of emotional tone. All that the table
can recognise is the number of objective facts stated as such, chiefly,
of course, concerning the earthly experiences of the communicator.
Much other pertinent matter cannot be included, even though it is not
without influence on one's convictions in estimating the whole.
124 [PAKT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
CHAPTER III.
The Tei.epathic Hvpothesis.i
In taking up the attempts to explain such phenomena, the tele
pathic hypothesis is the first naturally to come under review. This is
the case, of course, for all psychical researchers who suppose that other
objections to spiritism have been non-suited. The reader will have
already learned (p. 16) that I do not intend to consider how far
subliminal fraud, fishing and guessing are applicable to this and other
Piper records. The reasons for adopting this course are various. Some
of them are implied in later discussions. But the chief reason is that I
do not think that such suppositions can be either consistently or
rationally carried out, even if we make them adjuncts to telepathy. I
leave to the ingenuity of a priori speculation the combination of
assumptions necessary to meet the simple hypothesis which I have
preferred to defend as satisfactory for the present. Hence, with the
refusal to consider these, telepathy is the only real or apparent difficulty
in its connection with secondary personality that I shall consider. But
i It is important in considering the telepathic theory to examine two things about
it before measuring its application to the facts here recorded. The first is or concerns
what telepathy really means, ~and the second is the reason for invoking it in the
explanation of such facts in any case.
In taking up the first of these topics, the nature of telepathy, it will be important
to recognise a current distinction of some value. This is the difference between
telepathy at a distance, as the word etymologically imports, and direct thought-
transference from the mind of the sitter, or experimenter, immediately present. Some
have supposed that if you only exclude thought-transference from the sitter, and also
that of the actually existing states of consciousness in the person at a distance, you have
proved the spiritistic hypothesis once for all. This may be true as a matter of fact, but
it is not the assumption upon which the psychical researcher has to work. For him
subliminal telepathy present and at a distance has to be eliminated in some way before
surrendering. Hence, for the purpose which we have in view here, the technical dis
tinction between the two conceptions will notsubserve any important end evidentially,
though it would help in understanding both the complexity of the problem and the addi
tional difficulties involved in telepathy at a distance over and above those in thought-
transference at hand. This analysis I shall give of the matter for occasional use in this
discussion where I mayfind it necessary toeconomise time and space. But for the general
comprehension of the problem and of the meaning which I shall usually attach to the
term, I shall only remark that I do not intend to recognise any qualitative difference
between telepathy at a distance and thought-transference at hand, simply because we
have to produce evidence that both are insufficient to account for the phenomena
before resorting to spiritism. This is evident. But I shall analyse the case fully,
though briefly, for the sake of clearness in comprehending it. If I could safely
substitute a general term for telepathy I should do it, and employ this latter for its
technical meaning as often understood, but I fear that it would only lead to
confusion.
In transcending sensory perception we may conceive all acquisition of ideas as
Transpercoption, or Transcognition, and thus have a term for a few minutes to
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 125
in the discussion of the subject I wish to keep the conceptions of
telepathy and secondary personality distinct from each other as
functional processes of the brain or mind as the case may be.
I wish, therefore, to examine first the strength of the telepathic
hypothesis, as against spiritism, before approaching the objections to
it. This procedure will enable the reader to observe what I have
taken into account in rejecting it in favour of its alternative. First, I
simply assume it as a fact sufficiently attested by evidence outside
the Piper case, as well as by the phenomena in that case which make
the supposition necessary for all attempts to escape spiritism. The
only problem that remains is to see if the supposition will stand the
■strain that must be put upon it to meet the emergency. That is, can
we push its implications so far that spiritism becomes preferable by
virtue of the very magnitude of our suppositions to escape it.
Now a priori its strength lies in the assumption that it has no
proved limitations in space and temporal coincidence with present
active consciousness. We may have no right to this assumption, but
in the absence of any demonstrable limits to transperception, after
sensory experience has been transcended, we must be prepared for any
suppositions whatever, especially when we add to this extension of
represent every possible conception for which telepathy has had to stand. I might
even coin a more technical term, namely, Noopathy, which I should actually like to
see come into use, as convenient for indicating the process that has to be eliminated
in order to finally establish the spiritistic theory. This Noopathy, or Transperception
could be subdivided into Telepathy, or thought-transference at a distance, and
Parapathy, or thought-transference at hand, limiting the term, of course, to a process
between the living. I also coin the latter term for its technical purpose. Each of
these can be subdivided into two distinct problems, namely, transperception from the
supraliminal, and transperception from the subliminal of the agent. But the present
problem will not require any special use of this distinction, as the record shows how
little supraliminal transperception has to do with the theories necessary to explain
the phenomena. But the tabular analysis, representing the various possible problems
that have to be ultimately considered in making up one's mind on the hypothesis to
be adopted, will stand as follows :—
The superficial distinction between telepathy and parapathy in this table is
merely spacial. But it is in fact far more profound. Telepathy under all physical
analogies has to contend with the laws of distribution of energy, which represent its
variation inversely with the distance. Of course it may be wholly different with
mental phenomena, but once concede this difference and physical explanations are
thrown out of consideration, and the presumptions are in favour of a mind or soul
(
Noopathy <
v.
Parapathy
126 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
possibilities that of disregarding the distinction between present and
past states of consciousness in the telepathic acquisitions. The very
conception with which we start, therefore, involves enormous difficulties
to be overcome, whether they be of arbitrary making or not. The
second consideration in favour of accepting telepathy as an important
alternative in the case, is the fact that an immense mass of evidence on
hand bears no indications of personal identity, whereas evidence of
this is indispensable to the spiritistic theory, and hence suggests the
explanation of the more complex by the more simple. In all our cases
of experimental telepathy there are no traces of coincidences that
would suggest spirits as the cause (Cf. Proceedings, Vol. I., pp. 13-64,
70-98, 161-216, and 263-282 ; Vol. II., pp. 1-12, 24-42, 189-200,
207-216, 239-264; Vol. III., pp. 424-452; Vol. IV., pp. 111-126,
127-188, 324-337 ; Vol. V., pp. 18-168, 169-207, 355-359 ; Vol. VI.,
pp. 128-170, 358-397; Vol. VII., pp. 3-22, 374-382; Vol. VIII.,
pp. 422-435, 536-596; Vol. XL, pp. 2-17; also Phantasms of the
Living, Vol. I., pp. 10-85 ; Apparitions and Thought Transference, by
Frank Podmore, pp. 18-143). Nor do we find any definable limits
to it from space and temporal coincidence except in some instances by
Mrs. Sidgwick and Miss Johnson, where distance seemed to affect the
number of successes (Cf. Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 536-596). There
which, under physical conceptions, is still tubjudicc. But besides having to contend
with the known laws of distribution of energy, telepathy also represents a much
wider selective power in its acquisition than parapathy, and for this reason the
technical distinction would be useful in certain discussions. But as we have to over
come every possible form of transperception, or transcendental cognition either
evidentially or in conceivability, we need not confuse the present discussion with any
other use of the term telepathy than is customary in psychical research. This will be
apparent from the following delimitation of the problem.
If the alternatives were between spiritism and either parapathy or telepathy from
the supraliminal of the agents, the case would be demonstrated in favour of spiritism,
as every one would admit. But as the psychical researcher has to assume that this
alternative is at least between spiritism and parapathy from the subliminal of the
agents, the problem is complicated with the whole field of memory and so made much
larger, though it is already clear in the Piper phenomena that on that conception of
the choice the case would be unequivocally in favour of spiritism. But if we have
to take telepathy into account, as defined in the table, the alternatives are very
different, and the problem evidentially very much larger. The question would then be
between Ncopathy and Spiritism, as perhaps it is for the lack of any definable limits
to mental acquisitions transcending sensory methods.
But valuable as such a complete analysis and the more technical use of new and
old terms may be, I shall not complicate the present discussion by imposing any new
difficulties upon the student in reading this report. I give the analysis in order to
indicate what conception of the problem is before me, and permit the reader to apply
the necessary meaning of the term telepathy as the exigency of the special case
requires. Hence I shall use it as convertible with transperception, or noopathy.
But there is still another fact in regard to the meaning of the term telepathy,
conceived as either noopathy or parapathy. Before assuming that it represents a
view that necessarily displaces spiritism, we require to recognise that its meaning
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 127
is in all of these no suggestion of personal identity, and hence if we
once assume a non-spiritistic supernormal power sufficient to account
for the coincidences, experimental and spontaneous, that are found in
our Proceedings, we have a serious task to set aside that assumption.
But it must be strained beyond acceptance before its alternative,
spiritism, can be tolerated. That, I think, is a truism for the psychical
researcher, and requires re-statement here only for those who are not
familiar with our reports, and who may not otherwise understand the
difficulties which I have been forced to consider before reaching my
present convictions on the Piper phenomena.
Now in estimating the application of telepathy to the facts adduced
in the record of my experiments the task of refuting that hypothesis
would be an exceedingly easy one, if I had only to compare the results
with my consciousness at the time. There is scarcely a single spon
taneous incident, if any at all, in the whole twelve personal sittings, to
say nothing of Dr. Hodgson'sJive held while I was absent in New York,
that represented a present state of my active consciousness until the com
munication made it such after the writing. I watched very care
fully for the influence of present states on the content of the messages
and found not the slightest trace of a causal nexus. This is a circum
stance, however, that only the sitter can fully appreciate, as the record
definitely implies the modus operandi of the process that excludes spiritism. As
a fact, the term is not necessarily antagonistic to spiritism. There is one con
ception of it, possible at least, which does not contravene the theory which is
here represented as its alternative, bat which may allow us actually to invoke
spiritism as an explanation of the coincidences and assumed transmission of thought
that has induced us to consider telepathy as a fact at all. That is to say, tele
pathy might be the modus operandi of spiritistic agency in producing the
coincidences which we are trying to explain away by the term. Not that I
should advocate that conception of the process, but that our ignorance of the nature
of the process permits us to assume that possibility a priori. Thus, if telepathy
be a mere name for the transmission of ideas from one mind to another, or the coin
cidences that go under that name, we have no other conception of it than that offacts
that require a causal explanation. Nothing is implied as to the intermediaries in the
case. That must remain an open question. Assuming then that telepathy is nothing
but a name for coincidences that demand a cause independent of sensory mediation,
we could also assume with tolerable impunity that spirits are the media for effecting
the phenomena, if we have any other grounds for supposing them to exist. But it is
the want of evidence for the latter hypothesis that necessitates making the causal
nexus one of immediate transmission between incarnate minds. Hence, though our
ignorance of the real process is great enough to admit spiritistic agency as possible in
mediating the coincidences, yet such a supposition serves no useful purpose in the
premises, and only begs the question at issue, until we know moreabout it. That the
spiritistic theory can be used to cover phenomena accredited to telepathy pure and
simple is indicated both by the incidents in Dr. Hodgson's experiments with G. P. (cf.
Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 304-308, 313-315), and by the attempt to decide whether
the facts indicated a preference for the spiritistic nature of Dr. Phinuit, as a pre
condition of simpler explanation of his doings than the secondary personality of Mrs.
Piper (cf. Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 28-46, 54-56). But this discounts the evidential
128 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
does not show what he was thinking about prior to the communica
tions. All that I can do, therefore, is to indicate that this difficulty
has been adequately considered and met by an absolute disparity
between the two sets of phenomena, in so far as the causal influence of
the present states is concerned. I took special occasion to test this
matter and found all grounds for such hypotheses wanting. For
instance, if the present state affected either the manner or content of
the messages, the mental perturbation or confusion as to what was
meant by certain messages should have reflected itself in a correspond
ing confusion in the communication. Of course, there were occasions
when my own confusion was coincident with the confusion in the record,
but this was due primarily to the confusion in the communication and
not to myself. It was too often my ignorance of the facts communi
cated that produced my confusion to suppose any influence from my
state of mind upon the results. Besides, inquiry developed the fact that
some of the best incidents which were wholly unintelligible to me at
the time, but verified afterward, were coincident with mental confusion
on my part. Dr. Hodgson's five sittings while I was absent are a fatal
objection to any supposition of this kind. To psychical researchers
this goes without saying. (Cf. Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 453, 564-5,
and Vol. VIII., p. 10.)
In line with the same thought it is interesting to remark that I had
not dreamed of hearing from several of the communicators, and several
problem which,many suppose, requires that in some way we transcend telepathyofevery
sort as a condition of making any other hypothesis that will subordinate it in the end.
Hence with scientific method to satisfy, which keeps us within the field ofadirect process
for the mediation of telepathic coincidences, we have to assume this in all our
explanations and thus conceive it as antagonistic to spiritism, at least in its evidential
aspects, if not in its process. Consequently, though I see nothing in the mere fact
of thought transmission, conceived as a coincidence requiring a causal explanation, to
militate against spiritism either as a general theory, or as the agency for effecting the
coincidence (cf. Proceeding/!, Vol. XV., p. 18), nevertheless the circumstance that
many of the coincidences do not furnish any evidence of personal identity makes it
imperative to assume the possibility that the process is a direct one between incarnate
minds, and thus conceive it as antagonistic to spiritism until it is shown to be either
an independent or a sulwrdinate agency in such phenomena.
The result of these two considerations, therefore, is that I shall treat the term
telepathy as a name for a causal coincidence whose modus operandi is wholly unknown
(cf. Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 160), and indifferent to the limitations of space
(cf. Proceedings, Vol. XII., p. 174) and of temporal coincidence with present mental
states thus making it preferable to assume the possibility of a direct process between
living minds, as long, at least, as it does not attempt to produce the personal identity
of the dead. It is important to remark for the benefit of the scientific Philistine that
unless this view of the case be admitted there is absolutely no escape from the
spiritistic theory. That theory would then have nothing but fraud as its alternative,
and the task of the psychical researcher would be a very easy one. Hence if I do not
treat telepathy, conceived in the sense defined for the purpose here, as an alternative
to spiritism, I should not find it necessary to discuss the question beyond the state
ment of the facts in my notes to the communications.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena, 120
persons that I had expected on the telepathic theory made no appear
ance whatever. I had expected to hear from three on every imaginable
theory of such phenomena, but one of these and a fourth who was
desired show not a trace of themselves. Besides, although I got traces
of two sisters long since deceased, and although there was much in my
supraliminal and subliminal about them neither telepathy nor the
dramatic personations of secondary personality presented them as
personal communicators. It would have been useless to do so in any
attempt to establish identity, since what I knew about them was
merely told me after their deaths. On the telepathic theory I should
have heard from them as well as from Charles and Anna. But
does telepathy limit itself to common experiences between the
sitter and the alleged communicator, excluding other derived know
ledge associated with the persons, or are Imperator and Rector wise
enough not to undertake communications that have no chance of
proving personal identity, as they could not have done in the case of
the two sisters indicated 1
This is a very important conclusion, not only because it excludes
the whole theory of telepathy from the case, if that doctrine is made
convertible with the transperception of existing states of conscious
ness, but also because it represents a fact quite at variance with the
whole record of experimental telepathy as referred to above, where
telepathy obtained access to the intended ideas of the agent, even
though this is sometimes, if not always, postponed for a short time. If
experimental telepathy indicates some connection, though slightly
deferred, between present consciousness and the fact obtained by the
percipient, we ought not to find such uniform variance with the sitter's
consciousness in the Piper case and the incidents communicated.
A conclusion based upon this circumstance would throw telepathy
out of consideration. But, unfortunately for spiritism (I am willing
to say fortunately for both this theory and the interests of civilisation)
the problem is not so simple. We have to assume a far larger possi
bility in the case, and this is the acquisition of facts from the subliminal
of the agent. Whether it is absolutely imperative or not to assume
telepathic access to subliminal knowledge I shall not decide. There is
some evidence that it is a fact. The circumstance that the telepathic
acquisition seems never to be instantaneous upon the inception of the
agent's thought rather suggests the assumption. Especial evidence for
this is noticeable in certain interesting cases (Cf. Proceedings, Vol.
VIII., pp. 14, 548, 561). Consequently our duty is clear in such
premises, and the problem becomes correspondingly difficult, as it is all
but impossible to assert with absolute assurance that certain things
have never been in one's knowledge. There will be evidences of this
in my own record. (See pp. 337, 341, 440.)
K
130 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Assuming then that telepathy may have access to the whole range
of the individual's experience, supraliminal or subliminal, there is first
the significant remark to be made, in suspicion of its capacity to meet
the phenomena of this record, that both in my own experiments and
apparently those of all others in the Piper case, there is no perceptible
distinction drawn by that process between ideas present and ideas
past but recognised, and so present after recognition, or between either
of these and ideas wholly forgotten and unrecognisable on suggestion.
The indifference of the process to absolute distinctions for our concep
tion of knowledge is most amazing, and has no analogies or support in
philosophy of any sort. This indifference also extends still farther.
The access may be to facts not known to the sitter at all, and obtain
able only at a distance from some unknown person. Of this again. I
am now merely indicating the fact which shows that we cannot assert
or suppose that any condition of an idea in the sitter's mind or memory,
whether supraliminal or subliminal, recognisable or unrecognisable, has
any determining influence one way or the other on telepathic acquisi
tion. This is a suspicious fact for the theory. I do not say that it is
an objection, for the present state of our knowledge does not justify so
positive a statement until we have tried implications of the theory
much farther. But I do say that, when the phenomena of the Piper
case represent so clearly the character of personal identity of one that
we once knew, and all in contrast to the ordinary results of experi
mental telepathy, this indifference to the distinctions which are so
natural to our usual psychology is more consistent with the spiritistic
theory, where we can assume the known mental laws, than with
telepathy which at least appears to contravene them, and which, if it
does not contravene them, seems to demand a wholly new law of
mental action quite as unrecognised in psychology and physics as is
spiritism.
There is a peculiarity about this indifference to ordinary psycho
logical laws and distinctions which indicates that on the telepathic theory
the process is hardly consistent with itself. The manner in which it
defies our recollections, and the wonderful range of its power over
important and trivial matters alike rather indicate that confusions and
mistakes ought not to occur at all. When the most difficult and complex
incidents are rattled off at a breakneck pace, and with apparent ease at
times, it is absurd for a process which is wholly indifferent, presumably,
to psychological laws as we know them, to falter and show confusion at
some simple fact involving no necessary complications. The variations
of facility and difficulty in the communications bear no determinate
relation either to the nature and complexities of the incidents given or
to the mental condition of the sitter. On the contrary, the free
mixture of the known and the forgotten, or of the known and unknown
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 131
in the mind of the sitter, with absolute disregard of space and time
limitations, all in the same sentence, makes the mistakes and confusions
seem absurd in most, if not in all cases, on the theory of telepathic
access. They would appear quite conceivable on the spiritistic hypo
thesis, as we should expect from known laws of mental action both
confusion in such circumstances and a selection of incidents with
reference to an interest and a unity wholly outside the experience of
the sitter.
This last statement is illustrated, and telepathy at short range
dismissed from view, by the large number of facts in the Piper record
that show their origin beyond the mind of the sitter altogether. But
I shall confine my instances to my own record where they are suffi
ciently numerous and complicated not to be discredited.
I shall enumerate the incidents bearing upon this argument in
several classes, which may be indicated by Roman numerals. Class I.
will contain those which I thought at the time they were given that I
had never known, or that they were false, but which inquiry proved
to have been at one time in my consciousness. Class II. will contain
those which in all probability I never knew, but which, owing to the
circumstances, I cannot prove were unknown. Class III., if the
incidents can be admitted as evidential on the ground of my inter
pretation of them, will contain those which were unknown to me.
Class IV. will contain those which I knew which Dr. Hodgson did not
know, and which were given at the sittings that he held in my behalf.
Class V. will contain the incidents which were given in the sittings at
which I was present, and which I most certainly, that is without
reasonable doubt, did not know until verified.
The reader may wish to know that the only fact which had been
told Dr. Hodgson about my father was that my father was deceased.
I mentioned no name and no incident in his life, except that I had
told my father on his death bed to come to me after it was all over.
This was a year or more before my sittings. Also I might say in
regard to the mere question of the sitter's relation to the facts com
municated I could have included Class IV. in Class V. This would
increase that number considerably for the purposes of theoretical
discussion.
Class I.—These are the Swedenborg incident (p. 31), the
strychnine in connection with the Hyomei (p. 38), my father's visit
to me in Chicago (p. 440), the curved handled cane which was repaired
with a tin ring (p. 58).
Class II.—The organ incident in connection with Harper Crawford
and the church (p. 82), the black skull cap (p. 43), and the visit
to George and Will before going West (p. 72).
k 2
132 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Class III.—There are " Munyon's Germicide " (p. 39), the
Maltine (p. 39), the reference to the "ring" on the cane (p. 59), the
possible reference of my cousin to his sister as his aunt (p. 232), the
reference to the book of poems (p. 99), the full pertinence of the
allusion to my brother George in the matter of settling the estate
(p. 85), the reason for connecting Harper Crawford with the organ
incident (p. 83), the name Maria in close connection with the refer
ence to "John's wife" (p. 443), the trouble with my brother about
fishing (p. 77), the mole near the ear (p. 49).
The sceptically inclined critic may prefer to say that Classes I., II.,
and III. can have no significance, the first being confessedly in my
subliminal memory, the second doubtlessly in it and the third too
dubious in interpretation to admit of consideration. But whatever may
be said of these the following incidents are exempt from this soit of
criticism, Class IV. having been obtained at Dr. Hodgson's sittings
when I was not present, and Class V. being unknown to me. The last
eight incidents of Class V. were obtained at Dr. Hodgson's sittings in
my behalf. In all they constitute a numerous and important set of
incidents bearing upon the tenability of the telepathic hypothesis.
Class I V.—-Of these there are my father's inquiry about his pen or
special quill (p. 54), the fact that we grew more companionable as we
grew older (p. 387), the reference to his preaching (p. 55), the advice
given to me when I started to college (non-evidential) with its phrase
"Want for nothing" (p. 61), his feelings at the time (p. 61), the allu
sion to the rough roads and country, the name of Ohio as connected
with my father, the talk with the principal of the school, and the
anxieties of my father, Aunt Nannie, and myself in connection with
my brother George (p. 61), my father's moving West and separation
from me with my ignorance of his habits and dress (p. 43), the initials
carved on the end of the cane (p. 57), the reference to Hyomei as a
" vapor " (p. 39), the mention of the tokens (p. 54).
Clans V.—I shall enumerate these as briefly as possible with the
references. The Cooper case with its reference to discussions, friend
ship, correspondence, and especially the Cooper school (pp. 51-54),
the paper cutter (p 50), the writing pad (p. 49), the dog Peter which
George had (p. 96), the name of Jennie in connection with Lucy
(p. 106), the change in the name of my aunt Eliza (p. 82), my uncle
James McClellan's dislike of the name Jim (p. 109), his friendship
for Dr. Cooper (p. 52), and the name of his mother Nancy (p. 110),
the name of my uncle's father, John (p. 110), the fact that a John
McClellan was in the war (p. 1 1 3), the name Hathaway and its con
nection with this John McClellan (p 112), that this John McClellan
was familiarly called " Uncle John," being no relative and not known
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 133
to me (p. 113), the incident of his lost finger (p. 113), the sun
stroke incident and its connection with the name David, the name of
the brother-in-law (p. Ill), the statement about myself put apparently
into the mouth of my stepmother (p. 75), the reference to my uncle's
walks, drives, etc. (p. 91), my aunt's dream (p. 91), the special
pertinence of the allusion to my aunt Eliza's despair (p. 91), my
father's habit of using the phrase, " Give me my hat " (p. 23), the
incident of the fire which gave my father his fright (p. 34), the stool
incident (p. 65), the name Ann as that of my uncle James McClellan's
sister and the fact of her death (p. 109), the connection of my brother
George with the disposal of the horse Tom (p. 65), the brown-handled
knife and paring the finger nails with it (p. 42), the description of the use
of the cane, including the reference to the manner of calling my step
mother with it, drawing it across his knees, and keeping time with
music (p. 58), the trouble with the left eye (p. 49), the round and
square bottles on the desk (p. 57), the incident of the hymn "Nearer
my God to Thee" (p. 56), "the preparation of Oil" (p. 39), the
writing of extracts when reading (p. 41), the thin morning coat
(p. 54).
On the telepathic hypothesis the last of these groups of facts, which
were unknown to both of us, would have to be acquired by the dis
covery of some existing memory in the far West, after selecting the
right individual from the whole universe of living consciousness, from
whom to obtain the facts while the fourth group might be supposed
to have been obtained either from myself in New York at the time
of the sitting or from the permanent acquisition of all my experience
at the time of my sittings, or from the same sources as the incidents
that were unknown to both of us.
But if we are going to admit such a process as this supposes, con
ceiving it as transcending all limitations of the sort mentioned, and
obtaining access to any desired fact in any mind in the world and at
any moment necessary, we have a hypothesis very difficult to refute.
Its mere magnitude, barring the question of evidence, as against the
finite character of the spiritistic theory, can create distrust and
suspicion. We may well halt before asserting or assuming such an
omniscient power.
But if any one chooses to advance it rather than spiritism we
should find it very difficult to displace such a doctrine, as it is always
difficult or impossible to compete with appeals to the infinite. We may
well ask in reply whether such a conception is not convertible with
pantheism, or that form of monism that conceives all phenomena what
soever, present, past, and future, as modes of the absolute, a conception
which I must consider as equivalent to spiritism, because we can as
well postulate the continuance of each set of facts in that way as in
134 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
the form of individualisation usually imagined in the "spiritual body"
or immaterial soul. The real question is whether any given stream of
consciousness can continue or not, and the issue is not its relation, once
existing, to the absolute ; its persistence is just as possible under the
conception of pantheism with its reduction of everything to modes, as
it is under the conception of atomic monism or pluralism which
endeavours to individualise the stream of consciousness in forms of
time and space. But, in so far as the problem of psychical research is
concerned, the metaphysics of survival after death is not a matter of
present interest, but only whether the evidence justifies the supposition
that an individual stream of consciousness once known continues to
persist in other conditions. We need not call it " spirit " at all, if that
term leads to an illusion regarding the facts. We may simply conceive
the present stream as a mode of the infinite, and suppose that mediumistic
phenomena enable us to communicate with a transcendental stream, as
our ordinary intercourse is a communication with a terrestrial stream.
In both cases we are dealing with modes of the infinite. With
this premise, it should certainly be possible to insist that the facts
acquired by such supposed telepathy involving the defiance of time and
space, and imitating the selectiveness of the infinite, could be most
easily conceived as implying the survival of the absolute's modes under
changed conditions, just as memory represents our present command
of the past.
The best analogy, however, is the one above where we compared
the case to two streams of the same subject, representing the con
tinuance of both with difficulties in the way of communication between
the transcendental and the terrestrial that do not affect the intercourse
between the two streams in the present life ; that is between two
terrestrial streams in different subjects or persons. The analogy can
be further carried out in the chasm that we often find separating com
munication between the primary and the secondary personality. Now
this infinite telepathy must either be reduced to this conception, or we
have to suppose that Mrs. Piper's brain is the centre and origin of the
whole affair. The latter is an hypothesis which I imagine the physio
logist is hardly prepared to accept. But the possibility of making the
telepathy required to meet the case convertible with spiritism, in the
only meaning of the term that the facts support, or that has any
practical interest for either science or morals, is a reductio ad abxurdum
of his theory for w hich the telepathist is probably not prepared. If,
however, it does not mean the substantial identity of spiritism and
omniscient telepathy by their unity in pantheistic monism, it certainly
conceives a representation of the case which pits spiritism against
omniscience. Whatever objections are to be made to such a supposi
tion, if science has the audacity to make it, they must rise from the
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 135
magnitude of the hypothesis and both its difficulties for the ordinary
scientific imagination and its return to something like first causes for
explanation after preaching for centuries against this procedure.
Were it not for the exceptional character of the coincidences that
suggest telepathy as an explanation of them we might ask a question
that is now forbidden us because the facts are exceptional. Its first
meaning is that of a connection between certain mental states that
demands a causal explanation. If it meant nothing more than the
admission of a causal nexus beyond sensory agency, we might ask for
the evidence of the hypothesis that it is a direct process between the
two brains. Usually even in new theories we only extend some old
hypothesis to cover new phenomena whose relation to the old conception
had not been suspected. Newton's theory of gravitation is an illus
tration of this. He only extended the assumed gravity that accounted
for the fall of an apple to the celestial bodies from which it had been
excluded before. Hypotheses non Jingo was the maxim of science and
is still, and new forces are not admissible except in the application of the
Method of Difference. (Mill, Logic, Book III., Chap. VIII., §§2 and
3; Whewell, Philosophy of Inductive Science, Vol. II., pp. 409-12;
Sigwart, Logic, English Translation, Vol. II., pp. 339, 419-20.) It
happens, of course, in the phenomena under survey here that the
evidence for spiritistic claims is the same that has to be adduced for
the enormous extension of telepathy demanded to meet the emergency.
We might then ask for additional evidence for a definite conception
of the telepathic process which is assumed to account for the coin
cidences suggesting it. This is tantamount to demanding the pre
existing conception which is extended in covering such phenomena,
and so to asking for evidence of the process assumed as well as for
the coincidences requiring an explanation. But unfortunately we
cannot hastily take this recourse for weakening the claims of
telepathy, as the absolutely exceptional nature of the phenomena
conforms to the requirement of exceptional theories, and both the
general presumptions of physiological science and the exemption of
experimental telepathy from traces of personal identity demand that
we first assume the subject or the percipient as the cause, and
so extend the simpler hypothesis involved in non-spiritistic phenomena
to the wider class, if the extension does not exact more than the
supposition can support. Hence, though it is possible to explain
telepathy either by spiritism or in subordination to it after the existence
of a soul is established, we are reduced by the conception indicated to
another resource for disputing its adequacy. The problem is such that
the very existence of a soul goes with the proof of its survival. That
is to say, we cannot assume that there is any other subject of conscious
ness than the brain until we have applied the Method of Difference
136 [part
H. Hyslop,Ph.D.
and isolated consciousness or personal identity as a fact, from which to
infer the existence of a subject for it other than the brain. Conse
quently, no presuppositions can be entertained for suggesting a priori
possibilities in the direction of spiritism of some sort, as that theory
would be practically proved by the admission that there is a mental
subject other than the brain. The existence of such a subject once
granted, whether simple or complex, the law of the conservation of
energy would render survival of substance or energy in some form
certain, even if it did not carry the continuity of our personal con
sciousness with it. But as the proof of this last is the first condition
of assuming the existence of a soul, we are forced to remain by the
functions of the brain until we have to gasp at the magnitude of the
theories that are invented to sustain the case against spiritism.
The most important limitation upon telepathy as a theory is the
question which every scientific man should ask himself, and that is
whether he fully appreciates what it demands of his comprehension. It
is a very easy thing to say " telepathy " when we find a mental coinci
dence between two persons that cannot be explained by chance or normal
psychological laws. This is not only legitimate, but the only sane
course to take if the premises demand such. But when the facts
accumulate and extend their character until our first supposition begins
to arrogate the attributes of omniscience it becomes suspicious. As a
precaution against hasty conclusions involving matters so important as
a future life, it is as imperative as it is useful. I have always used it,
and shall continue to use it, where the facts imply a supernormal nexus
between the mental states of two different persons but do not reflect
any traces of the personal identity that suggests spiritism. It is the
only safe criterion of the evidence that does not supply spiritistic
implications. But in all cases, and especially when our facts enlarge
the range of the theories we are in the habit of adducing for their
explanation, we are responsible for the logical consequences that attend
those theories. Experimental telepathy has a most decided limitation
to its action. It appears to be confined to the intended fact in the com
munication, even if the fact be slightly deferred. Spontaneous telepathy
involves the present activity of consciousness. But when we find the
enormously complicated phenomena of personal identity involved, and
every imaginable limitation of space and temporal coincidence tran
scended with the greatest ease, we must stop to ask what is involved
in our telepathic hypothesis. Scientific method demands this procedure.
No man can escape the necessary deductions from his theories, or the
full interpretation of their meaning in the light of the facts they are
made to cover. (Cf. Jevons, Principles of Science, Chap. XXIII ;
Mill, Logic, Book III., Chap. XIV.) This demand is designed to deter
mine the range of their power, and it stands or falls with its ability or
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 137
inability to meet the situation. Hence it is much easier to say tele
pathy, and thus to create some confusion for spiritism than it is to
supply evidence outside a priori possibilities and the privileges of
scepticism for pretensions of such magnitude as a quasi omniscient
telepathy supposes. But, once postulated, the hypothesis must stand
the test of the following considerations, and be accepted against the
^suspicions that they arouse.i
S (1) There is not one single verifiable incident in the whole seventeen
\^ sittings that belongs to my own personal memory or knowledge alone.
I cannot even except the Maltine incident (p. 418). The incidents
affecting identity are either all common to the memories of myself
and the alleged communicators, or to their memories and that of some
other living person, the latter facts not being known to me at the
time.
I had thought at one time that there was one incident which repre
sented a decided exception to this assertion, though it appeared to
contain no truth from the standpoint of my knowledge. This was the
incident that I had in mind when I said in an article in the New World
(Vol. VIII., pp. 255-272) that the discrimination in the selection of
incidents " is so perfect that only a few isolated words, not incidents,
can even be suspected of being filched from my personal habits of
thought." I had reference to the " philosophical discussions " connected
with the Cooper case in Dr. Hodgson's sittings for me, which, we must
remember, involved my absence two hundred and fifty miles away. But
the discovery afterward, that this Cooper referred to had a wholly distinct
pertinence from that which I imagined it was intended for, completely
removes this suspicion and puts the case in the category of the others.
Such a conception makes the telepathic discrimination and selection
■v of verifiable incidents one of incredible proportions. The whole
mass of my personal experiences, exclusive of those connected with the
communication, is absolutely ignored, and only those which are common
to the living and the dead are chosen. Still farther, this selective
capacity extends to the discrimination between my memories regarding
many deceased persons that I knew and who do not appear at all, and
memories of a certain group of family acquaintances near and remote.
Even here it omits some that I should have expected, and did expect,
to " communicate." The fact that justified this expectation was actually
intimated in a few instances, but no definite communications ever came
to satisfy it. Still further yet, the discrimination and selection were
i Nothing in the discussion of the telepathic hypothesis must be interpreted as
reflecting upon the supposition that the communications are telepathically dispatched
from discarnate spirits. It is only the hypothesis of telepathy between the living
that is here controverted, not as a fact, sporadic or otherwise, but as an adequate
account of such facts as are found in this and other records of the Piper phenomena.
138 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
invariable between my own thoughts associated with my memory of the
communicators and the real experiences common with theirs in life. That
is to say, the process has infallible command over the distinction between
the associated connection of my mere thoughts about the communicators
and the same connection of my real experience in common with theirs '
This is a fact that ought to embarrass the believer in telepathy, because
that process in the experimental efforts to test it shows no selectiveness
at all of an independent sort. It is definitely correlated with the
arbitrary selection of the agent. But here we have an intelligent
selectiveness with reference to the illustration of personal identity that
arrogates every function of omniscience within the time allotted to its
action. But now right in contradiction with this infinite discrimina
tive power occurs the perfectly finite capacity for confusion, error, and
difficulty in getting right these memories about the actual communi
cators which have been infallibly separated from my own personal
experience associated and unassociated with the communicators ! This
is a kind of discrepancy or weakness that ought not to occur with so
unfailing a power to discriminate between pertinent and impertinent
incidents bearing upon personal identity. Assuming the application of
telepathy, therefore, we have here a capacity absolutely free from
illusion and mnemonic error in discriminating between the individual
and the common incidents and selecting its field of operation, but full
of contradictions, confusions and indistinctness within the limits of the
field chosen for the acquisition of the facts. Why should this infallible
distinction between the right and wrong groups of facts consist with so-
finite and fallible a capacity to give the right ones thus circumscribed.
Under the Phinuit regime this peculiarity was not noticeable. In
fact the selection of much that did not show the slightest flavour of
personal identity indicated a graver suspicion in favour of telepathy, as
all that was necessary to account for the phenomena, especially since this
supposition seemed to give a unity to the case which spiritism could not
do without assuming that Phinuit was a discarnate spirit, and that was
a part of the issue to be determined. But whatever theory we may have
to account for the difference between the Phinuit and the Imperator
regime, the fact of this unfailing discrimination of the true from the
false, as between individual and common incidents for personal identity,
and the amazing limitations in the attainment of the relevant within
its own area, after its distinction from the irrelevant, remain an
interesting and puzzling circumstance. This fact of limitation and error
stands in proper conformity with the idea of finite processes with which
science has everywhere else to deal, and so must make us cautious in
supposing something that at least simulates the infinite, which the
telepathy seems to do. There is no evidence and no analogy in
either the physical or the mental sciences outside psychical research,
xLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 139
for any such power, especially when we assume the selectiveness
exhibited by it. Telepathy simply becomes so large in its pretensions,
if we insist on it, that there is nothing of which we can suppose it
incapable, except perhaps prediction, and even this is excepted only for
lack of the data by which to apply the assumption of telepathy as an
escape froln the spiritistic theory.
i (2) The/ objection from the selectiveness of telepathy, once assumed,
applies equally to its short and its long range. But I have not
emphasised the infinity that is implied in the latter conception of it.
Its enormous magnitude becomes much more astounding when we try
to think of the selection it must make between pertinent and
impertinent facts in the memories of living persons at any distance,
after actually hunting them up and discriminating them from all other
living persons, all equally unknown to the percipient. Had we to deal
only with phenomena representing merely the memories of the sitter
and such statements as are false or mere guess work when the
" communications " transcended the memories of the sitter, we should
find telepathy more tolerable (Cf. Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 461-462,
569—574 ; Vol. VIII., pp. 9-16). But when events or facts are
chosen which are true and verifiably independent of the sitter's mind,
the telepathy that would account for this becomes infinitely more
selective and complex than that which is limited to the sitter's mind.
To state it as boldly and clearly as is possible, it involves the power of
the medium, wholly unconscious and not knowing the sitter, as any
condition of establishing rapport at any distance, to select any
absolutely unknown person necessary, anywhere in the world, and from
his memory make the selection of pertinent facts to represent personal
identity, as that selection has been described for the mind of the
sitter ! ! Such a conception is the Nemesis of the credulity which is
usually charged to spiritism. It ought to take far more evidence to
prove this than to justify spiritism, which at least has the merit of
remaining within the sphere of the finite, while it conforms to known
mental laws in both its strength and its weakness.
Nor will any analogies from wireless telegraphy be applicable here,
in spite of its conception of coherers arranged for particular kinds of
messages. We must remember first that the coherer in wireless tele
graphy is a prearranged affair for its purpose and is limited to a
partictdar kind of message. Otherwise there is no success of any kind.
There is absolutely no selectiveness in the coherer, and this supposition
is necessary to the analogy. If the coherer could select any system of
messages sent out into the ether and omit those not pertinent to the
party at its end, the analogy might be urged. But this is precisely
what it does not do and cannot do. We must first know both
ends of the line sufficiently to adjust the coherer to the machine
140 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
sending out the messages, and the whole process is purely mechanical
and absolutely wanting in the intelligent adjustment to the given
situation as in psychical mediumship. Now in the Piper case there is
no pre-arrangement for rapport of any kind with any special person,
and on the telepathic hypothesis the medium must have the capacity
to be and represent a coherer infinitely better than anything producible
in wireless telegraphy, as she is spontaneously adjustable to any person
in any condition, at any distance, and at any instant. The supposed
process obtains in one part of a sentence a fact from the sitter, and in
the other part of the same sentence mentions a fact unknown to the
sitter and obtained from some one a thousand or ten thousand miles
distant and unknown to the medium (Cf. answer to question about the
cane, p. 494). In addition to all this it is intelligently selective for
the purpose of producing the evidence for proving personal identity,
leaving other matters aside. A man has only to state such a
supposition in order to refute it, and in order to ridicule the
assumed analogy with wireless telegraphy. There is in fact no
resemblance between the two phenomena except their amazing
character, and that is evidently a very poor fact upon which to base
their physical identity.
As a more conclusive objection to both this assumed analogy and
to telepathy itself without that analogy, I may refer to the universal
law of the distribution of energy in the physical world. This law is
that force varies inversely with the distance ; the ratio may be the
square, cube or other power. This makes it possible to assign definite
limits to the perceptible influence of such forces. Now if telepathy
follows any such laws in its action, it must be classed with heat, light
and magnetism, and so regarded as propagated like them. Other
wise we have a universe of energy at variance with the physical,
which is the point at issue. But if that be once granted the
strongest a priori objection to spirits is forever broken down, and
dissent from their possibility is mere quibbling after that. But
if we assume, as we must on physical analogies, that telepathy
conforms to this universal law, we find, in addition to the diffi
culty of its selectiveness, the circumstance that, in spite of its
decreasing intensity, it passes all minds in its neighbourhood and
chooses the right person at any distance, and the right fact for per
sonating the desired individual as a spirit. According to all physical
laws, and possibly this is confirmed by experimental telepathy (Pro
ceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 536-1596), the nearer subjects ought to receive
the benefit of the greatest intensity, and so to impress the medium, or
to be the sources of her impressions. But this appears not to be the
case. Her facts are selected pertinently to her object without regard
to space limitations, or the laws for the propagation of physical energy.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 141
Nobody seems to have any influence upon her " subliminal " but the
right person in the world, and that person unknown to her. One part
of a sentence is gotten with great difficulty from the sitter's mind, and
the other with ease from some mind at any distance, in spite of the
diminished intensity. Now there is not one iota of evidence for any
such capacity in the whole domain of physical science, and there it
must be found before reducing these phenomena to that explanation ;
nor is there any trace of such a process in the mental world outside
the phenomena of psychical research, and these cannot be invoked
against themselves. Hence, without the slightest trace of the limita
tions to the propagation of physical energy, telepathy must either be a
process that belongs to an immaterial world, or it is a new physical
force, mode of motion, or what not, that is both an exception to all
known physical facts, and shows an intelligent selectiveness which
baffles all conceptions of mechanical phenomena, while it conforms to
physical facts in the law of propagation. In the former case the
spiritual world is won in some form ; in the latter we have a
mongrel conception which is neither physical nor spiritual, but
a mere makeshift in words that is without evidence and without
intelligibility.
Were we dealing with the phenomena of apparitions and coin
cidences of the non-experimental sort, the objection from the analogy of
wireless telegraphy might have more weight. For in these phenomena
we might say that we are not likely to discover, and it might be
impossible to verify, the existence of the coincidences themselves
looking toward telepathy, were it not that the intercourse of friends
reveals them to us. Our complete ignorance of experiences on the part
of other persons that might be coincidental makes those which we
discover through the intercourse of friends appear more selective than
they really are. How do we know, for instance, that in our dreams
and frequent thoughts, or our hallucinations, we are not recipients of
influences from other minds on ours, under conditions in which it is
impossible to determine the source of the impressions 1 May we not
have many coincidental experiences, but only occasionally discover
them from our intercourse with our friends ? The law of the distribu
tion of energy may then hold good for telepathy, and we may have less
right to suppose the selective character of apparitions and coincidences
than we are in the habit of taking for granted. All this is purely
speculative and a jtriori, and is far from being a tolerable belief or
possibility to me, and, besides, assumes the supernormal to begin with.
I think there are abundant reasons in the nature of apparitions and
coincidences, compared with ordinary dreams and hallucinations, not
to press the hypothesis that the latter are ever coincidental for lack of
the evidence to the contrary, and hence I shall not dwell upon that
142 [I'ART
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
question. I am anxious only to recognise what a telepathist might
advance in his defence, as against spiritism, in the field of apparitions
and coincidences. It is the argumentum ad ignorantiam which is used
to diminish the importance naturally assigned to spontaneous coinci
dences and allied phenomena, and which certainly has its weight until
we can show that, even in this field, it is either not applicable at all,
or is so only to a very limited extent. But it is far more plausible
than it appears, and while we may grant it all the importance imagin
able for it in the field mentioned, it completely ignores the circumstance
that no comparison with the Piper phenomena is possible in the case.
The Piper phenomena are experiments, complete in themselves, and
are not spontaneous occurrences. As experiments they ought to
exhibit that access to the proximate emanations of thought, as in
the physical world, instead of the remote, and should not be selec
tive at all, if telegraphy after physical analogies is to be the
explanation. But they indicate nothing of the kind, and no argumen
tum ad ignorantiam prevents our assuming them to be really as
-selective as they appear. Hence the process, if telepathic and under
spacial limitations as to intensity and distribution, nevertheless dis
regards the whole universe of consciousness, except to select at any
distance and without regard to the known laws of mind the facts that
are pertinent to the supposition of personal identity. This teleological
feature of the process destroys the right of concession to mechanical
analogies in any respect, while the exclusion of proximate influences
upon the results appears to contradict even the supposition or possi
bility of any resemblance, even of the a priori sort, to the distribution
of/physical energy.
| (3) Another objection to the telepathic theory is the incompatibility
of the various confusions and mistakes with the enormous power that
must be assumed for its selective nature and its defiance of space
limitations. This argument -has two aspects. We may assume that
the subliminal of Mrs. Piper is itself deceived as to the nature and
source of its information, and compare the power implied in its successes
with its limitations implied in its mistakes. On the other hand, we
may assume that this subliminal is not deceived, and that it is an
extremely acute intelligence, capable of understanding its object and
consciously making its selection with reference to its purpose. We
can then compare the mistakes and errors with this assumption of
supernormal intelligence. Taking the first assumption, a power which
only falls short of omniscience in. its discriminative, selective, and
acquisitive action ought not to stumble and become confused at some
simple fact indefinitely less difficult than the hundreds in which it
succeeds. Of course, the reply would be that the " conditions " cause
it, and this must be accorded its a priori weight, for the reason that
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 143
we are really too ignorant of the " conditions " to plead them any
more in defence of spiritism than in defence of telepathy, except as
they are and must be more complicated on spiritistic assumptions. If
the nature of the facts favours that conception of the " conditions "
that must necessarily attend spiritistic phenomena, we may decide the
balance in that direction. Otherwise we are engaging in a priori
speculation on either side. But nevertheless I think there is one fact
that makes the plea more cogent for spiritism than for the alternative
view. It is that the difficulties in the communications exhibit evidences
■of a disturbed memory precisely as we should expect to be the case in
the severance of a soul from the organism. We may accord that the
trouble with proper names is as easily explainable on one hypothesis as
on the other, a concession, however, which may be of very doubtful
propriety, and is made only to concentrate the argument upon a more
assured basis. But when the confusion is exactly like that of a person
who has difficulties with his memory, and when it also coincides with
what must necessarily be assumed on the spiritistic theory, namely,
obstacles to communication of any kind, we find that there is no sug
gestion of a specifically known cause in the " conditions " between
medium and sitter, but only on the side that conforms to spiritistic
■conceptions. Or, perhaps, to put the case in another way, if " con
ditions " are to figure in the matter, they indicate mental conditions
subsisting rather in the communicator than in the relations between
the sitter and the medium. The telepathic theory must assume that
the " conditions " concerned subsist between two or more brains or
minds, even though it possibly allows for oscillations of power in the
mind or brain of the medium.
There is no trace of such oscillation as affects the issue in the mind
or brain of the sitter, as the whole record shows, and we may well
raise the question whether it is in any respect different with that of
the medium, thus throwing the whole responsibility for difficulties upon
what intervenes between the two brains or minds. But conceding this,
there was, as I was careful to observe at the sittings, no discoverable
trace of a definite correspondence between any real or supposed
oscillations of my thoughts and the observed oscillations and intermit-
tences of Mrs. Piper's subliminal. Both these facts are a presumption
in favour of the spiritistic theory, unless we assume oscillations that we
do not know anything about in the subliminals of both sitter and
medium. But what telepathy cannot easily account for, if we concede
any weakness in the presumption just indicated, is the fact that this
oscillation of the conditions in the mind of the medium, necessar}- for
good " communication," should so uniformly be avoided in the
phenomena of secondary personality when non-spiritistic or non-
evidential and yet assume the role of illustrating, in all its strength
144 [part
J. H. Hyslop, PhD.
and weakness, the character of a memory independent of the brain or
mind of both sitter and medium when the phenomena purports to be
spiritistic. That is to say, while we can discover some very general
resemblances between the fluctuations of acquisition in experimental
telepathy and the intermittent messages of the Piper record, yet there is
in the latter an intermittence of a very different kind. It is the inter-
mittence of dramatic play and of different personalities, necessitated
perhaps by the obstacles to communication of any sort, if the time is
to be occupied by relevant work at all. But such dramatic intermit
tence of personality seems to be neither a fact nor a necessity of the
difficulties and fluctuations attending the supposed processes going
on between percipient and agent in experimental, and possibly
spontaneous telepathy. This is a fact in the mixture of truth and
confusion in the communications which telepathy cannot face with
confidence. To do so it has only to still more extend the powers that
have already been stretched beyond the breaking point. (Compare
Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 362-394.)
Taking the second assumption mentioned above, how can the inci
dents that are false be reconciled with the remarkable power of dis
crimination and selectiveness that have to be assumed in telepathy in
addition to its defiance of space and temporal coincidence?(^Ve have three
types of incidents to deal with : The true, the false, and the indeter
minate. \ Whatever judgment we entertain about the indeterminate as
possibly true and accessible to the telepathic hypothesis, we cannot say
this of the false, especially those errors that just miss being true. A
power of such magnitude and assumed acuteness in the discrimination
of the true from the false, in its effort to convince us of the existence of
spirits, ought not thus to contradict itself and forfeit our confidence in
telling what it ought to know is false. The process is fabrication
pure and simple, whether we choose to call it unconscious and irrespon
sible, or conscious and unveraeious. Such action reflects on the
capacity and intelligence of the subliminal, and to that extent creates
suspicion of its ability really to account for the successes by telepathy.
When it comes to disposing of the indeterminate cases, we force tele
pathy into a dilemma. If the indeterminate incidents are admitted
into the class of the true, we by so much enlarge the evidential facts
beyond my own knowledge and the extent of the telepathy required
to meet the case, giving it instantaneous power over the memories of
widely separated and unrelated parties. On the other hand, if we
class them among the false incidents, we have to assume defective
powers in telepathy that are incompatible with those shown in
obtaining the truth, so that the only theory that is consistent
with the facts is that which assumes the possibility of error in
accordance with what we know both of the difficulties in the way of
xLI.] Observations of Certain 'Trance Phenomena. 145
communication and the finite powers of the human mind, especially in
the field of memory.
These general arguments against telepathy may be reinforced
by a few specific instances of mistake. I shall refer here to only a few
of them, as the whole subject comes up in a later topic, and in an
entirely different aspect.
The first interesting illustration is the passage in the sitting for
December 24th (p. 317), in which my uncle shows his curiosity to know
who Dr. Hodgson is. On the telepathic theory there should be no
difficulty in this. Dr. Hodgson ought to be known by this time by
both the supraliminal and the subliminal of Mrs. Piper. In fact both
G. P. and Rector recognise him without failure on all other occa
sions. But here they must be supposed either to be ignorant of him or
to be intelligent enough to simulate the actual facts of the case, so as
to make their spiritistic claims more cogent, and thus contradict the
uniform consistency of their character as honest personalities. That
supposition requires us to add a rather amazing hypothesis to telepathy
in order to use the latter at all.
Again, take the complicated passage in the communications of my
cousin, Robert McClellan (p. 422). He had evidently tried to give
the name of his wife, Lucy McClellan, and some incident with it, but
had to leave before he succeeded, and Rector told him to " go out and
come in with it again," and then explained to me that my cousin had
said something about Lucy, also remarking, against all excuse from
telepathy except to make it "magnitude incompatible with its
error, that this message was not for Miss Edmunds, who is Dr.
Hodgson's assistant secretary, and whose name is Lucy. In a few
minutes, responding to Dr. Hodgson's request to state explicitly who
this Lucy was, Rector said that my father and sisters had brought her
here several times, thus implying that she was a would-be communi
cator. Now the facts are : (1) That the person who was alleged
to have been brought several times by my father and sister to com
municate was my aunt, if we can assume that it was any relevant
person at all ; (2) that I knew perfectly well what " Lucy " was meant,
and only wanted the surname given for completeness ; (3) that this Lucy
is still living. In the face of such facts telepathy is in inextricable
confusion and contradiction.
A similar mistake is committed in regard to this name in one of my
brother's communications. He had to leave just as he succeeded in
giving the name Lucy (p. 465), and Rector, evidently remembering
that Dr. Hodgson had asked for explicit information regarding the
name, said at once, "I got it all but the Hyslop." This was perfectly
absurd from my standpoint, but quite natural and excusable for
Rector. The facts are : (1) that there is not and never was such a
L
146 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
person as Lucy Hyslop ; (2) that my brother was trying to say Lucy
McClellan, the name of the wife of Robert McClellan, her deceased
husband, and one of the communicators. Both the name of this Lucy
McClellan and the fact that she is still living were in my mind and
memory all the while, so that there is no excuse for telepathy in the
case. A finite spirit might commit such an error in interpretation,
especially as my brother had a few moments previously mentioned my
sister Lida.
(i) There is another difficulty which I cannot but regard as a
most serious objection to the telepathic hypothesis. It is the differ
ence between communicators in the matter of clearness while the
data in my mind from which telepathy is supposed to draw are the
same for all. (Compare Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 362.) My father,
my brother, my sister and my uncle James McClellan were clear
communicators, but my cousin Robert McClellan and my uncle James
Carruthers were exceedinglv confused. The data in my memory exist
there in the same way for all of them, to say nothing of the incidents
not there at all, but in the memories of persons at a distance. But a
faculty that ignores all distinctions between the supraliminal and the
subliminal, between what is recognised when recalled, and what is
wholly forgotten and unrecognised when recalled, and between the
known and the unknown to the sitter, can plead no extenuations
in behalf of limitations determined by any known differences of
temperament or feeling in regard to the different communicators. We
cannot plead any social habits and affections. But if we could plead
them it would make no difference, as the uncle with whom I
had spent so many delightful hours in conversation on all sorts of
subjects does not give me a word and does not appear at all. Nothing
is obtained but a statement by my father implying his death.i Also
my mother, endeared to me by affections and memories that have
i 1 refer to several allusions in which the death of this uncle, the husband of my
aunt Nannie, was implied, but not stated. On December 24th (p. 316), just after my
uncle Carruthers had communicated, father said, "I wish you would tell the girls
that I am with them in sorrow or joy. What is their loss is our pain." The use of
the plural in both the noun and the pronouns, the word " sorrow," and the connection
of the message with the aunt Eliza who had just lost her husband, indicates a
probable reference to my aunt Nannie's bereavement. Were it not for the probability
that the name " Mannie," in the sitting of December 27th (p. 1342), more probably
refers to my stepmother than to my aunt Nannie, I might suppose a similar reference
to this aunt's loss in the sentence, "Tell ttiem to trust in God always." But the
exclusive reference to aunt Eliza in the promise of comfort in her sorrow makes the
interpretation doubtful. Then at the sitting of June 1st, in response to my question
put to father, whether he had seen anyone in whom aunt Nannie was interested, the
reply came: "Yes, I intend telling you about him before I get through, .Tames."
But not a word came during the next four sittings, though he died four weeks
previous to my uncle Carruthers, and I was actually prodding Mrs. Pipers's
subliminal both telepathically and by direct suggestion.
xLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 147
affected my whole life, communicates so little that it is not worth
while to give her a separate place in the summary of facts. On the
other hand, my cousin, with whom I had far less to do, and between
whom and myself only one letter overpassed, is a frequent though not a
clear communicator. And my uncle James McClellan, about whom I
knew very little, though always fond of him, especially for the chance
to see the cars when we visited him, told me mostly things that were
true and yet unknown to me. Scarcely anything of evidential note
existed in my memory, or in that of any living person, regarding my
brother Charles and my sister Annie, and yet they were among the
clearest communicators from the start, and what they communicated in
many instances was not associated with them in my memory. This
difference, therefore, between communicators is precisely what might
be expected from the existence of a personal equation in a discarnatc
spirit affecting its ability to communicate, an equation that has abso
lutely no evidence for its equivalent in the memory of the sitter. On
the contrary, the evidence is strongly against its supposition in the
facts mentioned above.
(5) There is another objection to telepathy independently of the
question regarding its magnitude. It is the peculiar inconstancy of the
communications, and the changes from one communicator to another,
representing, apparently at least, the existence of conditions which
might more naturally produce aberration in spiritistic than in telepathic
messages. We can see no natural reason for the interruptions and
changes of " communicators " on the telepathic hypothesis, or for the
confusions and alleged explanations of them by the conditions of com
munication at all, if spiritism is not true. From what we have seen
of experimental telepathy it is not accompanied by any such fluctua
tions of ability to communicate by the agent, or to receive information
by the percipient in simulation of spiritistic realism, as are marked in
the short intervals of communication from a given person through Mrs.
Piper. There is just enough of failure and confusion, rise and lapse of
telepathic access, in ordinary experiments, to suggest that perhaps if
we knew more about it we might discover the same phenomena in it as
in the case under our study. But at present there is not the slightest
clear resemblance, except in the general fact of fluctuation, between the
inconstancies and changes of communicators in the Piper case, and what
mrght be called variations in experimental telepathy. There is nothing
in the conditions of incarnate life, so far as we know it, to favor an
intermittent character for telepathic acquisition. Of course we have to
recognise that theargumentum ad ignorantiam, at least in general, favours
telepathy as much as spiritism, because we know nothing more empiri
cally of the conditions for one of them than for the other. But I think
everyone will admit the greater probability at least, if not the certainty,
i. 2
148 [PAET
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
that the conditions of communication from the dead in a transcendental
world would more naturally exhibit difficulties and the necessity for
intermittent messages than the conditions of telepathic communication
between the living. The reason is apparent, and that is that on such
a supposition we should have one more world, and its complications to
reckon with, than in telepathy. This ought to be self-evident, were it
nut for our ignorance of telepathic conditions, on the one hand, and for
just enough of what may be called inconstancy in them on the other, to
suggest the utmost caution in declaring with any haste or confidence
that there is a qualitative difference between the Piper case and experi
mental telepathy. The supposition of their essential difference may
turn out false under further study, but it consists much more with what
we know and must necessarily expect from the physiological point of
view of the disturbing effects of death, assuming the existence of a
soul, than with what we should expect from secondary personality and
telepathic access. Until this distinction is removed the probability
that intermittent messages are more consistent with spiritism than
with telepathy must remain.
The cogency of the argument from inconstancy is just this. By
supposition telepathy cannot sustain its acquisition continuously, but
must be conditioned by something like the limitations to continuous
action that are claimed for spirits. But when we look at the facts it is
but a change of communicator and not a change in the telepathic
access. If the telepathy can be continuous it is absurd to alternate
the communicators. The facts of continuous access to the sitters' or
others' knowledge is sufficient proof that telepathy cannot claim the
immunities that go to the supposition of spirits without first showing
that the limitations exhibited are due to something else than the
mere fact of telepathic action.
There is also an important concurrent fact in our favour which
confirms the position here taken, and it is ostensibly connected with
spiritistic phenomena independently of the Piper instance. This fact
is that the large number of apparitions purporting to be phantasms of
the dead show no tendency on the part of the supposed spirit to remain
long under " material " conditions. They are quite uniformly represented
as vanishing in a short time. Whatever the explanation of them
they have this very singular and perhaps significant resemblance to the
intermittent and brief communications in the Piper phenomena, the
manifestations in her case varying with circumstances and conditions
having no apparent relation to any known " material " causes, and
about which we are hardly entitled yet even to speculate. But the
resemblance in this one particular between the experimental and the
spontaneous phenomena which assume the aspect of spiritism is at least
to Ik? remarked as indicating their consistency, and in each case it
XU.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 149
seems to present greater difficulties for the telepathic than for the
alternative theory, if we are to admit that the conditions are more
complicated in the one than in the other.
(6) There is another strong objection to the telepathic hypothesis.
It is the inconsistency between the hypothesis assumed to account for
the difficulties of the telepathic access, and the fact that this access is
just as often easy and prompt, exhibiting all the readiness and perti
nence of ordinary conversation. In nearly all the sittings I remained
passive, and avoided asking questions as far as possible, in order, first,
to prevent any influence from suggestion upon the facts given, and,
secondly, to allow the communicator to tell his own story, which we
have learned is a way to prevent confusion until experience on the part
of the communicator facilitates ready messages. When I asked questions
the communicator was usually allowed to answer them at his pleasure,
to choose whether he should do it at once or at a later time. This
method avoided confusion and suggestion at one stroke. But the facts
given under such circumstances are more likely to be explained by tele-
pathy, on the ground that the medium has to take time and effort to pick
out the right facts in my memory. In this way the confusion may be in
terpreted as a device of the subliminal to gain time. This supposition, of
course, is purely a priori. But if in extremity it is advanced we have
to meet it. Consequently, I propose a formidable difficulty to this
way of looking at the matter, especially after having assumed
such enormous powers as we found necessary if telepathy be our
resource. If, therefore, you can get the communicator clear enough
to carry on a tete-a-tete conversation involving either an exemption
from confusion or an immediate answer to your questions, a double
object is gained. First, you are drawing, or seem to be drawing,
upon a fund of knowledge that is not left to itself to work its way
into expression, but is started in the natural channel of an independent
memory by an appreciative mind, and, second, you show that confusion
is not necessary to the selective process, but is a mere incident of
the conditions that 'render communication difficult. Thus you do
not conceive the problem as one of fishing about in the sitter's memory
with pains and effort for the right facts, but as the spontaneous recol
lection of another subject, as in ordinary intercourse. Hence, if you
still resort to telepathy, you have to reverse your judgment of the limi
tations assumed to account for the hesitating answers to inquiries, an
assumption made in contradiction with enormous powers supposed for
other purposes, and thus we should have to conceive it as capable of
the immediate acquisition of the facts. Thus there would be no
excuse for the theory of confusion, and the necessity of arbitrary
selection of the incidents from the oscillating processes of mental action
and memory, whatever such imaginary processes are.
150 [PAKT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Now my last sitting especially illustrates this view of the case. It
is a perfect type of telephonic conversation. I suggested topics about
which to talk or to send messages, and the responses, representing often
pertinent incidents of a very special character and wholly outside my
memory and knowledge and comprehending every shade of complexity,
indicate such action as would impose a still greater strain upon
telepathy. The play of an independent mind so distinctly imitated is
very far removed from the notion of a subliminal, either self-deceived
or intentionally deceiving others, fishing around under difficulties for
facts. In reality the difficulties in communication, under the stress
of the consciousness that the communicator was enjoying his last
opportunity for some time, were apparently far less than before, and
the conversation was almost without a break, the interest being
heightened by my resolution to break the long silence that I had
maintained. This being the case we cannot apologise for telepathy on
the ground of impeded acquisition, but have to assume powers in it
which make its mistakes and limitations appear absurd and inconsistent.
One can understand from ordinary psychology why a man endeavouring
to communicate at a telephone under great difficulties should halt at
the irresponsiveness of the man at the other end. Hut if the receiver
does enough to stimulate attention and interest at the communicator's
end, the difficulties would be less embarrassing, and the intercourse less
arbitrary except as the receiver made it so. This describes in telephonic
phraseology and ordinary psychology just what took place in my last
sitting. This difference between sittings without questions or suggestion
of topics, and those conducted on the plan of mutual conversation is a
very important fact in determining the range of power which must be
attributed to telepathy in order to meet the case, since it is exactlv the
same kind of fact which we meet in actual life, while the extensive
powers assumed for telepathy are not what we observe in actual life.
It brings into clear light the incompatibility of such a power with the
mistakes and confusion observed, while the spiritistic theory, on any
principle of continuity and on the assumption of the known powers
and limitations of the human mind, reveals no difficulties in the case
that are not naturally explainable in a perfectly rational way, even
if a little a priori and defective in evidence of the conditions that it
has to assume on the "other side." The mind of the communicator
being finite and admittedlv liable to errors, and not requiring anything
more remarkable or miraculous than the ordinary processes of con
sciousness, would most perfectly consist with any amount of confusion
and error.
x^T^jThere is another important objection to telepathy. If there
be any supposition whatever that is necessary for that hypothesis to
make, it is that the point de repirc for the telepathic acquisition from
xu.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 151
living consciousness, and for the application of its omniscient selection,
must be the name or memory of the person who is to be represented as
communicator, so that it can appropriate all the associates with
that name and personality, though it actually discriminates against the
mere thought of the subject about the person represented. Telepathy
has to have some rational power of discrimination and selection in
order to effect its simulation of personal identity. The only plausible
supposition within the range of known psychology for this cue to work
on is that it is the name or the sitter's memory of the person to be
represented. But this assumption is completely wrecked on the fact
of intermediaries that have no associations whatever in the memory
of the sitter with the incidents selected and sent to prove the identity
of some one else. This was a special characteristic of the communica
tions by my brother and sister, and occasionally by my father.
Rector in a few incidents acted the part of intermediary, and so also
did G. P.
(8) Another point may be made against telepathy in its failure to
utilise its opportunities for producing more than it does from the
memories of distant and unknown persons. If telepathy he the
process explaining the phenomena, and if it has transcended the
knowledge of the sitter in the instances mentioned, it can in
stantaneously select any person in the world that it pleases and
from that person select with perfect discrimination the one fact
needed to complete a message obtained only in part from the sitter.
Knowledge of this kind, or, whether we speak of it as knowledge or
not, a process with this power, ought to be able as easily to dispense
with the memory of the sitter altogether, as presumably on this theory
was the case in Dr. Hodgson's sittings while I remained in New York,
and to make out its communications from any number of persons not
present and thus avoid suspicion for its weakness. But in no case
while I was present did it appear to consciously and regularly
simulate any such powers. The point de repere for association
was, not the sitter's natural expectations or point of view, but
the natural interest of the communicator in the incidents that
pertained to his memory of the individuals to whom he wished to
identify himself. This is the natural law of association. When A.
meets B. his recollection and conversation take the direction, not of
his intimate life with C, but of what pertains to B. Meeting D. it
will be different from both B. and C. These three persons would in
some way have to be connected in their experiences in order to have
any natural play of association about them when one of them is in mind.
If C. never knew B. he is not likely to be thought of when A. who knows
C. talks with B. Now telepathy would have to be intelligent enough
to discover this peculiarity in ordinary mental operations and imitate
152 [part
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
it here in the selection of the persons and incidents at a distance in
order to avoid doing what I have said ought to be expected of so
immense a power. While it is playing the rble of the infinite in the
simulation of personal identity by its correct selection of the point dc
repere in relation to the sitter, why does it not keep up this role in a
way to defeat the objections, which it should know can be and are
raised against spiritism in the choice of most of its messages from the
mind of the sitter ! It could as easily reproduce personal identity by
access to distant minds as by relying so generally on that of the sitter, and
at the same time escape the accusation made against it. But in spite of its
supposed power to defy space and temporal coincidence it goes just far
enough to show that it contradicts its reputation for infinite capacities
by assuming the limitations of spiritism. It can discriminate with
infinite shrewdness for its purpose in the treatment of the sitter's
mind, but is not astute enough to play the game in reading distant
minds which would tend more to acquit it of the suspicions that
hamper its effort to prove spiritism ! If, while it is rummaging with
instantaneous precision about the whole universe of consciousness, it
would only show its ability to disregard the sitter s mind altogether
and reproduce {lersonal identity without reference to the principle of
finite association and the point dr, re/iire most natural to a human
spirit, we could accord the process the right to suggest greater diffi
culties than it docs. But it is precisely the extent to which it actually
fulfils the conditions of the spiritistic doctrines in all its multitudinous
and detailed complexity that deprives it of its controversial rights. It
imitates spiritism in the reproduction of personal identity, but its
action is such a fast and loose playing between finite and infinite
powers that no one can tell whether it is entitled to respect for
one or the other. Just when it seems to be proving its immensity it
shows such limitations that its pretensions break down, simply because
it stops short in its acquisitions from distant minds at the point which
enables spiritism to account for the arbitrary limitation of the pro
cess, which is not arbitrary at all if we are dealing with discarnate
consciousness.
(9) Another consideration, also, that will have to be accepted under
the telepathic hypothesis is the fact that telepathy is only one of the
processes that must be combined in order to account for the phenomenon
as a whole. This function is a mere adjunct to other powers quite as
extraordinary as itself. That is to say, as against the single hypothesis
of spiritism, telepathy has to be combined with various other assump
tions to account for the facts. There must be assumed an original his
trionic capacity, joined with a fiendish ingenuitv at deception, whether
conscious or unconscious, for giving personal form to the facts tele-
pathicallv acquired, a form completelv imitating the synthetic activity
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 153
and intelligence independent of the brain from which the information
is presumably obtained, and apparently independent of the brain by
which it is expressed. The main features of this dramatic play of
personality will be considered again in detail when I can urge it8
positive meaning for the alternative theory. But it may be alluded to
here for the sake of indicating that there is nothing in the passive
access of experimental telepathy (Cf. references on p. 126) to favour or
justify such a supposition as this wholesale power to convert telepathic
acquisitions into the perfect simulation of independent personalities.
Even in hypnosis the subject seems to be wholly, or at least almost
wholly, the instrument of foreign suggestion, and though the
secondary personality may display the original action of the subject's
mind in response to some suggestion, to make a speech for instance, it
yet exhibits no trace of a tendency to appropriate the thoughts of
others present, but draws upon its own resources and very gener
al!}-, if not always, shows some of the limitations in language or
range of thought characteristic of the primary personality. The
histrionic power of hypnosis, even when it represents the spontaneous
activity of the subject, is still too mechanical to compare it hastily to
the phenomena of the Piper case. On the other hand, in the experi
ments in telepathy, upon which we have largely to rely for our
conception of the nature and range of the process, there seems to
be no trace of this tendency to dramatic imitation of any other per
sonality than that of the percipient himself. Hence when we are
applying telepathy to the explanation of the Piper case we are obliged
to discard the conception of a merely passive access to the knowledge
of others, present or absent, and to conceive the process as combining
with it the independent synthetic and organising action of the
medium's brain or mind in completely reproducing the personality
of another being than itself, not in external appearance, of course, as
that term is too often understood, but in terms of the states of con
sciousness which the alleged communicator can be proved to have had.
Add to this also the amazing amount of auto-deception as well as
hetero-deception that is involved, though it be all unconscious, or even
the honest opinion of the medium's subliminal, and extend this
supposition to the whole census of apparitions representing phan
tasms of the dead so as to include the subliminals of all other
persons, and we have put a dangerously infernal agency at the very
bottom of things from which it is impossible to recover any morality
at all !
The mere statement of such suppositions would be sufficient to
refute them were it not a fact that some of the phenomena of secondary
personality show, to some extent at least, both this ingeniously original
power of constructive mental action and the tendency to some form
154 [PAltT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
and amount of deception, which two facts seem to defy alike the ordi
nary canons of morality and the objections to the limitation of the
telepathic access to merely passive attainments. (Cf., "Case of
Le Baron," Proceedings, Vol. XII., pp. 277-297 ; Vol. XV., pp.
466-483 ; also the Newnham case, Vol. III., pp. 8-24 ; Studies in
Psychology, University of Iowa, Vol. II., Some Peculiarities ofSecondary
Personality, by Professor G. T. W. Patrick ; Psychology of Suggestion,
by Boris Sidis, pp. 245-268, et al.) These are sufficient to show the
recognition of a fact that prevents us from wholly denying histrionic
capacity and deception in secondary personality. But we must not
forget that secondary personality is complicated with suggestion in
these cases, or in most of them, so that the responsibility for histrionic
appearance may have to be shared, in part at least, by the operator.
Besides, both the deception and the histrionic play show the inconsis
tencies of mechanical phenomena, and in this respect indicate almost
a complete contrast to the Piper phenomena, to say nothing of the
general qualitative and quantitative difference between her case and
those admitted to suggest difficulties. There are no such limitations
in it as in the cases quoted. It has a complete semblance to reality
which the others do not have, and they on account of that defect
betray their spurious nature.
These general objections to telepathy could be multiplied by
the mention of several which are positive arguments for spiritism.
But these will come in their place. Minor points could also be
considered, but I shall leave their development to the reader after
mentioning some of them in a few sentences. First there is the
curious fact that time relations, as we understand them, seem to be
obliterated, which ought not to be the case with omniscient telepathy.
If the subliminal has so accurate a knowledge of time relations as the
experiments of Professor Delbreuf and Dr. Milne Bramwell would seem
to imply (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 414-421, 605 ; Vol. XII., pp.
179-192), and if telepathy have half the power that is attributed to
it, why- cannot it obtain, occasionally at least, from the memory of the
sitter specific dates quite as easilv as tricks of phraseology ? Why is it
that the subliminal appreciates nothing but a before and aftei\_or
the most general relations of timeT We should expect tTus~oiT^iB--—
spiritistic theory, if Kant's doctrine of space and time be true. Then
there is another consistent habit of the communicator In' breaking over
the line and occasionallv making relevant remarks about conversations
and conditions of life on the other side that telepathy cannot reach
without admitting spiritism and that secondary personality cannot
reproduce without forfeiting its claim to superior intelligence, if the
statements exhibit those intrinsic absurdities by which secondary
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 155
personality so uniformly betrays itself and its limitations. Then,
again, what are we going to do with Imperator's prayers when we
consider the religious condition of some of the sitters ? My early
childhood, of course, leaves my subliminal accessible for recollections of
this sort, and so does much of my later experience. But then these
petitions are not even pretended to he Tnessages to me from any one
and so are a piece of supererogatory- display, so far as the main purpose
is concerned.
On the other hand, there is a class of phenomena in this record,
quite frequent also in other Piper records, that affords a peculiarly
effective argument against telepathy and its adjuncts, represented
either as like ordinary secondary personality or as variously deceived
and deceiving. These phenomena are the communications about
persons and things not relevant to the sitter at all, but for some of
which there could have been as much excuse for referring them to me
as in the case of the lady claiming to be my mother in the sitting
of December 23rd (p. 308) where the facts were all false. I shall
enumerate these incidents briefly with references, and leave the detailed
study of them to the reader.
The first interesting case of this is the communication on
December 24th, regarding a little girl who was said to be looking for
her mother (p. 319). The girl's name as Margaret Ruth was
given, and the opinion ventured that it was possibly the child of Dr.
Hodgson's sister. On December 26th Rector said spontaneouslv, and
without query from Dr. Hodgson, that this little child was not his
sister's (p. 330).
G. P.'s allusion to some affairs of his brother Charles in my first
sitting, December 23rd (p. 305), is somewhat similar to this about the
little girl. But his messages about John Hart and Dr. Meredith, May
31st (p. 440), are especially good instances of irrelevancy to me and
apparently of G. P.'s knowledge of the fact. No less important for
the same view are the trance personalities' specific communications and
arrangements regarding persons concerned in experiments and sittings
not connected with my own. All these are given in the natural
manner of reality, and free from the confusion of messages that come
from those in my family (Cf. pp. 222-238).
In these cases the trance personalities are perfectly conscious of the
irrelevancy of the messages to me. Compare also the reference to
Miss Edmunds (p. 442). Why are they not equally conscious of the
falsity and irrelevance in other cases ? The only answer to this question
that can sustain any consistency with itself is either that their intelli
gence is so infinite that it can produce just the proper appearance of the
finite which we wish to use in favour of spiritism, or that it is not so
supernatural as the necessity of using it in the successes for escape from
156 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
spiritism would imply. That they should be all unconscious might be
applicable to the discrepancies between the successes and failures, but
that they should thus be conscious of the irrelevancies and consciously
honest at points where they would have as much or more excuse, on the
supposition of acute knowledge, for the deceit that must be supposed
elsewhere, is incompatible with the assumption that they can play
any consistent role in their game. Supposing them finite, limited and
honest in their knowledge, as they certainly appear superficially, both
accounts for the character of the phenomena, and distinguishes them
from such secondary personalities as exhibit no proper traces of
spiritistic zeal and consistency.
^To summarise the argument : If we are to suppose telepathy and
its adjuncts as the explanation of these phenomena the theory must be
held to cover the following facts with all their suggested difficulties.
There is first the wonderful selectiveness shown in its unfailing dis
crimination between my own personal experiences alone and the
experiences that were common to ine and the supposed communicator.
Then there is the far wider discriminative selection from all living
memories of the facts pertinent to the identity of the person re
presented. The inconstancy of the communications and the dramatic
intermittence of different communicators, facts quite natural to the
necessary difficulties of communication itself. ■ There are also various
inconsistencies and unnecessary complications on the telepathic theory :
First between the occurrence of confusion and mistake on the one hand,
and the remarkable telepathic power on the other, that must be assumed
to account for the successes f%etween the usual point de repere, which is
the proper personality connected with the incidents communicated, and
the use of intermediaries J^-between the successes of some communicators
and the uniform failure of others, though the facts in the memory of
the sitter and other living persons are the same for all of them^and
between its range of assumed power over all living memories and its
limitation usually to what would be the natural law of association as
exhibited in the recall of reminiscences in conversation.' - Lastly, there
is the self-conscious communication of irrelevant matter, recognised as
irrelevant, and thus made incompatible, not only with its action in
what is false, but also with its apparent omniscience at deception in
other respects. ) Such a power to imitate just what we should expect of
a finite intelligence acting under such limitations as must be supposed
on the spiritistic hypothesis is a very large one. I do not say that such
a supposition is impossible, as I am aware that some prefer to protect
their scepticism by leaning that way. Dr. Hodgson has stated this
.supposition which some may prefer to hold when conceiving that Mrs.
Piper's mind, or brain as the case may be, both in its normal and super
normal conditions, is in constant relation to the supraliminal and
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 157
subliminal knowledge of all living persons, and perhaps to some facts once
in a living mind or brain, but not longer so, and gotten by some process
of clairvoyance from the ether or impressions on matter. (Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., pp. 393-396.) This theory is at least as large as the
spiritistic ! I mention it only to call attention to the fact. But I may
add that if we are asked to produce a second Piper case before the
spiritistic interpretation shall become respectable, is it not equally
necessary to produce a second case of this rare combination of theories
before feeling any assurance regarding their application 1 Moreover,
would it not be as easy to account for a second case on this theory, as
it is to account for the one in hand ?
1.58 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
CHAPTER IV.
The Spiritistic Hypothesis.
[ All that has been said in depreciation of the telepathic theory is
so much presumption in favour of spiritism, if we assume that we have
only two alternatives with which to deal. But in addition to these
negative arguments there are several positive ones. I shall first
summarise them and then discuss them at length. They are: (1)
The unity of consciousness exhibited by the communicators, or the
satisfaction of the criterion for personal identity. (2) The dramatic
play of personality. (3) The mistakes and confusions. (A) Certain
mechanical and coincidental features in the automatic writing of the
medium. /
(1) The Unify of Consciousness and Personal Identity.
In regard to the first of these considerations, I can even demand
the assent that the facts in this record perfectly satisfy the criterion
for personal identity on any theory whatsoever. It is not necessary to
assume the spiritistic theory in order to understand the pertinence
of the facts to the question of their original source. The difference
between the theories of fraud and spiritism consists in the mere
question whether the facts have been artificially acquired, or whether
they are the result of supernormal acquisition from spirits. The
source of the facts in the mind of the person whom they purport to
represent cannot be disputed without impeaching the veracity of the
persons affirming their truth, and hence the only question is that which
regards the method of obtaining them. The testimony to personal
identity remains the same in any case. That is to say, the facts
represent the personal experiences and consciousness of the individual
from whom they purport to come. But having recognised this circum
stance, it will be easy to realise their spiritistic import after being
convinced that fraud is to be thrown out of account.
In ordinary life the criterion of personal identity is complicated
with physical phenomena, upon which we usually rely, but which are
in fact not the final test of it. But in the problem before us all the
accidents upon which we rely in a sensible world for at least the first
suggestion of personal identity are wanting in the determination of the
same fact in an assumed discarnate spirit. No material or sensible
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 159
data are accessible. Our criterion must be facts that force the supposi
tion of the unity of consciousness between the past and present
existence of the alleged communicator. The incidents communicated,
their psychological connection, their emotional interest or pertinence
to the person they claim to represent, and the general manner of their
expression ought to indicate that unity of character which we should
recognise in the person given, or by which in daily life we should
instantly recognise their proper subject and source. This conception
of the case is represented in my experiments on the " Identification of
Personality," where the incidents chosen from the memory of a common
life achieve their purpose in a very short time, and represent just what
we find in the Piper phenomena minus the supernormal (pp. 537-623).
In this record of my Piper experiments, however, it is unfortunate
that the general reader is less qualified than myself for appreciating
this unity, because he does not know as well as I the pertinence of
the facts, and has to use his imagination more than I have to do.
But the notes in which I have given the facts from my own knowledge,
instead of my opinion as to the conformity of the messages to my
knowledge, ought to give a sufficiently clear conception of this per
tinence and so to make this exposition of their unity quite intelligible.
It is sufficient to remark then that the true facts in the entire
record, representing experiences that are demonstrably not the original
experiences of Mrs. Piper, will be intelligible enough to the majority
of men for them to understand their unity and spiritistic suggestive-
ness, no matter what theory they prefer. Hence I shall not resort to
any lengthy process of explanation at this point as to what personal
identity is in any metaphysical sense. I shall be content with the
simple view that it is a stream of consciousness that is aware of the
past and that can, under the proper conditions present facts which the
sitter can verify and cannot conceive to have been the experience of
any one else. In presenting the argument, I shall call special attention
to the facts that illustrate the case and indicate their cogency.
We must remark, however, that the problem has gotten far beyond
physiology. Only the psychologist can any longer deal with the com
plexities and significance of the Piper phenomena. We are dealing
with an intelligent unity in phenomena in which we art either unaware
of the conditions affecting them, or must assume them to be abnormal
and yet capable of reproducing the psychological facts of a normal
unity. To assume that the brain conditions aie normal is to cut out
by the roots any view but the spiritistic. To assume that the brain
conditions are abnormal, we have to nontend with-thtTfuct tliat there
"is no irregularity in the mental phenomena of the subject corresponding
to*~the disintegraiion_fif ..personality as observed in insanity and
secondary personality generally, but a reproduction of the normal
160 [PAKT
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
personality of some one else-_^Hence the problem is wholly removed from
the sphere of physiology, and it is left to psychology to deal with
the significant unity of phenomena that require to be explained by
some other process than anything with which physiology is acquainted.
The problem is not one of any known brain conditions, but of the
psychological unity of mental phenomena that must be referred to
wholly unknown physiological laws and conditions, or to hypotheses
consistent with the known laws of consciousness, namely, a subject
unity like that which we know in actual life and consistent with the
finite suppositions with which science is accustomed to deal. So far as
the present knowledge of physiology affords any evidence the subject
unity may not be anything else than the individual's brain, unless we
insist that the inconvertibility of consciousness with its physical con
ditions forces us to suppose a subject other than the brain, a view
which I do not feel compelled to take, though I admit the possibilities
of it. But in all the cases of ordinary life, whether the personality be
primary or secondary, the connection between the two streams is such as
to preclude any attempt to treat the one as reproduction of the personal
identity of another individual. The unity between the two is the fact
that forbids this. But when the phenomena have a psychological unity
that represents both another's personal identity, and this of one not
living, we have to recognise that our problem is not physiological, or
not physiological alone, but first psychological, in the determination of
the nature and the unity of the facts independently of the brain of
the medium, so far as any known physiological laws are concerned ; so
that the contest must be between a synthetic unity reproducing the
personal identity of an unknown individual not living, and the
capacities of secondary personality with its universally recognised
limitations in the field of physiology. Consequently, I shall examine
in the concrete the incidents of the present record and exhibit their
complex unity in terms of what we know of memory and consciousness
in psychology and then merely ask if we have any analogies in
psychiatry and its physiological assumptions and disintegrating
personality to suggest any rational way out of spiritism as a legitimate
hypothesis.
Let me take first the confused passage in which my father described
all the incidents that took place at his death (p. 327) I take a con
fused case at the outset purposely. My notes show that there is
sufficient correspondence between his statements and the facts for us
to recognise that the circumstances precluded chance as their explana
tion. The exclusion of chance suggests intelligence, if only that o£
fraud. But as this alternative has been excluded, the incidents
represent just the unity which we should expect of the alleged subject
supposed to have survived.
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 161
But there are two incidents in the group that are of special interest
in the consideration of their psychological unity for any other view
than the spiritistic. The first of these is the reference to congestion,
in the question, " Was it congestion, James J " I saw, the moment I
recognised the pertinence of this allusion to congestion, that I had an
opportunity to test the telepathic hypothesis, assuming that I was not
to admit chance in this one particular ; for I supposed that my father
never knew that congestion took place in his spasms of the larynx.
Hence I wrote to the physician who attended him in his last illness,
without telling him any facts in the case, to know if he had ever told
my father of his congestion, or said it in his hearing, and the emphatic
reply was in the affirmative (Cf. p. 356). Here I could not get the
unity of telepathy as the only alternative in the explanation. The
facts represented a wider unity of consciousness than I had supposed
and were just what the spiritistic theory requires. The second fact is
the appreciation of my question in a wholly different sense from the
one I had intended, and yet in the more natural interpretation which
it bore. I had asked "What was the trouble when you passed out?"
I had in mind the disease which my father thought he had, and as
my word " trouble " was strictly incorrect, the reply surprised me, as
supposing that my question referred to some personal differences
between myself and my father. His reply correctly indicated that
there had been no such personal differences. When I explained my
meaning in the term " trouble," the subject was taken up with the
strictest interpretation of the temporal clause in the question. I
again supposed that this reply was wrong, as I had in my mind
the catarrh that he had imagined to be his disease. But the moment
that this idea was driven out of my head, I saw the entire
pertinence of both the message and the natural interpretation of my
question. Now my question may be treated as a suggestion to any
subliminal to choose between two alternatives in the interpretation of
it, and I do not care to dispute that view at present. But I must
emphasise the unity between the mental processes that both interpret
most naturally my question and immediately reproduce facts that are
not necessarily suggested by the interpretation of it as equivocal. The
spiritistic hypothesis explains them in a very simple manner, while any
other theory has to combine at least two, and perhaps more, processes
in order to meet the case. If the right interpretation of my question—
and both interpretations may be considered right—had been followed
by an entire mistake as to the facts about his death, the supposition of
secondary personality would cover the case. But this is not the fact.
We have either the unity and simple action of a single process of con
sciousness, and so most naturally a spiritistic phenomenon, or the unity
of two wholly different processes, the existence of one of which is not
M
162 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
admitted in abnormal physiology or psychology at all, except in defer
ence to the necessity of escaping spiritism, and even this admission
has to explain the fortuitous or fortunate combination of such
independent functions as telepathy and secondary personality without
supposing any normal or abnormal brain equivalents in evidence to
justify the assumption. The argument is purely a priori, while the
spiritistic theory requires no complexity but that of ordinary con
sciousness and the necessary difficulties of communication in any case.
A more striking example is the cap incident. To say nothing of its
excluding telepathy from my mind, which it most probably does, as not
representing anything in my knowledge, it embodies three points of
considerable importance. (1) There is the frequent allusion to it both
when I was present and when I was absent. (2) It was wholly
unknown to me when first mentioned, and discarded as useless on the
first occasion of its mention (p. 387). (3) It had a singular
pertinence for my father's identification to my stepmother and bears
distinct evidence of this purpose. The fact represented a very trivial
and very exceptional incident in his life. Now though the name
"Nannie," which was wrong, was connected with it, I had already
suspected what it meant, and when I asked later (p. 478) who made this
cap, the answer involving an allusion to Hettie's mother, though
elucidating some confusion, indicated a unity in the case in a most
striking manner. There is in the case not merely the pertinence of the
single fact that my father had accidentally possessed such a cap as
is referred to, but the persistent interest in it, apparently for a purpose
that is entirely rational, and the final correction of the name associated
with it at first and the additional indication of the relationship of
my half-sister to the person intended—both circumstances representing
a mental fact or facts independent of my own interest in the case
and representing precisely the unity that should belong to surviving
consciousness and that is not reproduced in any of the evidence
that we have of the functions and capacities of telepathy. There is
both a double act of memory in the case and the synthetic action of
an intelligence independent of my own in the way the facts are woven
together to make the meaning clear. The two memories are, first, that
of the personal experience itself, the ownership of the cap, and second,
the repeated reference to it during the sittings, representing an interest
and intelligent process out of proportion to the kind of interest I took
in it, but quite consistent with the purpose of the communicator, who,
after all, proved that he was right in the stress he was laying upon the
incident. This memory from sitting to sitting is wholly at variance
with the photographing process of telepathy as experimentally
illustrated even when it involves a mixture of the percipient's ex
periences in the reproduction. It is the natural action of consciousness
xr.i.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 163 #
as we know it. This characteristic is frequent regarding incidents
about which there was a desire to know if I had forgotten them, generally
showing an interest independent of mine and out of proportion to mine,
just as the case should be, if we are dealing with an independent
intelligence.
Take also the consistency of the mental attitude toward
my brother George throughout the whole series of experiments,
whether I was present or not. This feature, however, was not an
intentional act of memory, as in the case of the cap, where purpose is
so evident, but it was the natural action of a mind concomitant with
the incidents chosen to communicate, which perhaps I can detect more
easily than the reader, unless he can see it in the facts by which I
endeavour to make this characteristic clear.
Take again the answer to my question about the medicine which I
bought for him. This was given with substantial correctness as " Himi "
(Hyomei), and the spontaneous addition made that strychnine was also
taken. This I knew nothing about at the time, and verified from three
sources, and did not learn that the two medicines were mentioned
together in one of his letters to me until long after this verification.
The Hyomei was a fact in my supraliminal, and the strychnine only in
my subliminal, this circumstance not making the slightest difference in
the success. Then in Dr. Hodgson's sitting the Hyomei was correctly
described as a vapour (p. 391) and alluded to more than once in both his
and my sittings. The independent memory here, throughout the
experiments, repeats the characteristic noted in the case of the cap
and shows the complex unity of pertinence, emotional interest, and
double memory. Now if the unity of the incidents were that of
telepathy I should in all expectation have gotten arsenic also, but
unless the "serris" (p. 336) be introduced as an attempt to get this,
and it can be taken as the attempt to give the strychnine, there is no
effort to complete the associated facts in my subliminal. On the
contrary, morphine was given, which was false (p. 384). Much less
is there the slightest trace throughout of obtaining what was the chief
matter of our constant correspondence, namely, politics. These little
incidents in the letters about medicine or other small affairs are very
infrequent, but if we are to suppose what telepathy illustrates as its
habitual function in our experimental investigations, it should repro
duce the phenomena either as a whole as in the mind of the agent,
including here the arsenic and discussions about politics, or compound
them with the matter in the mind of the percipient. But nothing of
the kind is done. The selection and dissociation of a normal con
sciousness is performed, and only those facts given which had a special
interest to my father in his life with reference to his disease. The unity
of these incidents, therefore, is that of a spontaneous and independent
m 2
,164 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
intelligence acting consistently with a known past and carrying
on the natural processes of consciousness, as opposed to the mechanical
and passive reproduction that ought to characterise telepathy, when it
does not interfuse the memories of the percipient with the facts
telepathically acquired. That is to say the unity is not one of my
memory, even when I can be said to know all the facts in one form or
another, but is a unity outside my conscious mind produced by
processes that clearly indicate another personality.
Still another illustration of this unity is the mention of the names
of my brothers and sisters. Putting aside the first sitting, which is too
confused to consider, the names of my brothers and sisters were
given correctly. All except one of them were in the form in which
they were used in life, and this one, namely, Hettie, was the correct
nickname for my half-sister. Though father never used this, it was
the natural abbreviation of Henrietta. The giving of it was associated
with the assistance of G. P. (Cf. Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 375,
Tillie for Matilda). But these names were not given all at once. They
were distributed throughout the sittings and connected with incidents
pertaining to them in life, giving again the double unity and pertinence
of synthetic character and the memory of a terrestrial past supposedly
terminated by death and of time relations that are not so terminated,
but which are most natural on the supposition that the content
connected with them is real and not artificial. There was, besides,
usually the proper emotional and intellectual interest associated with
each one mentioned, and this was especially sustained throughout in
regard to the two for whom my father had been particularly solicitous
in life.
There is a most interesting incident in this mention of the names
pf the family that makes the spiritistic theory far more clear than any
other. This fact is the curious, but natural and correct distinction
between the communication of proper names in the family and the
same outside the family. This seems to characterise the habits of all
the communicators in so far as any demand existed for it. Not once
does my father give the surnames of any of the family, except twice his
own. He simply gives the Christian name, as he always did in life when
speaking of them, and just as all persons speaking of their children or
members of the family would do. But he just as naturally and in con
formity with his own and the usual custom gives, or tries to give, the full
name, Christian and surname, of those outside the family when he has
occasion to speak of them. The same habit is noticeable in my cousin.
-He speaks of my brothers as " Robert Hyslop " and " Frank Hyslop,"
but never gives the surname of his wife or children. He does not say
to me " your brother Robert," as my father gives relationship instead
of surname, but he gives the full name. He calls my father " Uncle
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 165
Hyslop " once to distinguish him. It is not necessary that this habit
should be absolutely uniform, as certain persons in the attempt to com
municate might very well recognise the importance of giving the full
name at the outset and on all occasions requiring it. This dealing
with names in accordance with the natural habit in life of the com
municators is the action of an independent mind, and not the passive
reproduction of telepathic photography. This is evident from the
fact that the names of my brothers and sisters together with the
associated incidents are the same in my memory for all communicators,
and telepathy ought to get the same form unless we attribute a larger
power of knowledge and distinction than is conceivable ; it must
simply have all knowledge possible and be able to adjust itself rightly
to any degree of naturalness and complexity not represented in the
sitter's mind, but still true to habit outside that mind. That is to
say, the subliminal of Mrs. Piper has already recognised this habit of
the human race, and in addition to its infinite telepathic power, can
vary the organic unity of the facts gotten from any mind to suit the
habits of the person whose name she acquires with his relationship to
the sitter ! When such fine distinctions as I have just remarked are
observed, by the communicators, in conformity with their actual
habits when living, we have a phenomenon that is intelligible only on
the spiritistic hypothesis, and any other theory does not explain at all,
but only makes the problem insoluble by appealing to a power that can
do anything because we choose to say so, when in fact we do not know
that the infinite can do anything. We do know that consciousness in
its actual life does this very thing, and we do not know what telepathy
is at all. It is a mere name for causal connection, and as a known
process by which to explain the synthetic unity of consciousness it is
turn est. The scientific requirement to appeal to known causes for
explanation is better satisfied by the spiritistic than by the telepathic
theory. That is, in one we appeal to a known and in the other to an
unknown cause, telepathy being the unknown.
Again one of the most remarkable illustrations of this unity,
independent of what was most natural in my memory, is the system
of incidents connected with the conversation that I had with my
father two years before his death on this very subject of spirit
communication, and that are reproduced in all the main particulars
(pp. 30-34). The facts are : (1) Oar conversations on the subject ;
(2) My doubts about it ; (3) The intimation that I had explained
much by hallucination ; (4) The implication that I had used the
" thought theory " to explain spiritism away ; (5) The Swedenborg
incident ; (6) The promise (not strictly true, but possibly intended)
to return to me after death ; (7) The reference to hypnotism ; (8)
The allusion to the "young woman who had had some experiments
166 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
and dreams"; (9) The allusion to "some kind of manifestations
(apparitions) you were in doubt about"; (10) That these took place
on my last visit to him.
The general unity of these incidents is indicated when I say that
they do represent accurately just what we did talk about on that
occasion except the promise to return. But the most important feature
of it is the Swedenborg incident. The reason for this is the slight
place which it had in my memory, being absolutely forgotten, and
verifiable only by the explicit testimony of my stepmother, and the
natural interest which the communicator shows in a work which he has
suddenly discovered to be like what he found in Swedenborg. That
interest is also enhanced by the fact that my father had all his life, as
he actually says here, according to Rector's interpretation (p. 386),
shut his eyes to the facts that pointed in this direction and kept
his mind steadily toward his dogmatic theology. It was, therefore,
perfectly natural and an indication of independent intelligence for him
to seize on the incidents of our conversation and present them as
here actually realised in these communications, illustrating the doctrine
of Swedenborg, who was the only spiritualist of whom he knew any
thing whatsoever. He did not know enough of its modern phases to
despise the doctrine, and saw even Swedenborg in his best light.
That emotional characteristic of the whole set of incidents on this
point gives the clue to both the complexity and the unity of the case.
When we consider the very little knowledge that I had of Sweden
borg, this being limited to turning over the pages of his books once or
twice in my life and but for a few minutes, and to the historical
incident of the Stockholm fire, we can see more distinctly how
unnatural is the unity of the case from my standpoint, and how
much more natural it was from that of my father, who had actually
talked about Swedenborg with my stepmother after my departure,
thus showing his interest at the time in the connection between
Swedenborg's doctrine and the subject we were discussing. Making
that connection again here, wholly as a pertinent illustration of the
nature and object of these experiments, without anything but my
subliminal to work upon, is a suggestion of independent intel
ligence that can hardly be rivalled by any set of phenomena,
especially as it took two independent minds on this side to get
any unity in the case in regard to this special incident. But even
then it does not get the characteristic of interest that evidently
marked the communicator's consciousness, but only the unity of fact
representing the truth of the incidents, while from the standpoint of
the communicator there is both the persistent interest in the idea con
nection and the discovery of its present application. This last is not
a feature of my memory at all, but the spontaneous act of intelligence
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 167
other than the passive access of telepathy and so the organising
unification of facts in an independent mind and memory. That is to
say, we have the appropriate appreciation of a fact evidently thought
about more in life than I was aware of and interposed here in perfect
simulation of real intelligence.
This unity outside my mind again is illustrated in the incidents
communicated by my cousin Robert McClellan (p. 442), in which the
statement calling his sister his aunt created nothing but confusion for
me, until I learnt that it was his habit uniformly during his long
illness to call her this in deference to the habit of his children, she
having nursed him during some months. It happens to be a case also
in which it was impossible for me under any circumstances to have
known the fact, as all the events occurred years after I had even seen
them together, and nearly two years after I had seen either of them.
All the relations expressed in the message were natural and true,
but the one incident that makes that unity rational was the single fact
that I did not know. (Cf. pp. 231-235.)
I shall take one more illustration of this characteristic. It is one
of the finest in the record. I refer to the cane incidents (pp. 397-8).
In the sittings by Dr. Hodgson the allusions were confused and could
have obtained no meaning at all for one who did not happen to be
familiar with the facts, that give the clue, or who does not understand
the treatment of confusion in communications. But in the later
personal sitting the unity was indicated in an unexpected manner,
and my investigation revealed facts that I never knew. I saw, as my
notes indicate, that in Dr. Hodgson's sittings two canes were possibly
in the mind of the communicator. To clear this up I took the indirect
way of asking a question first about another incident connected with
the cane I had in mind, and after obtaining the proper recognition I
asked who gave him this cane, and the reply showed a memory of the
previous communication whose meaning I had conjectured, and the
reference to Dr. Hodgson as the one to whom he had given the com
munication. The allusion to the "ring" on the cane is perhaps equivocal,
as it may refer to the " gold bug " that I wanted given, and that was
drawn, or to the tin ring which had been used to repair the broken
cane which was most probably the one referred to at Dr. Hodgson's
sitting. Now in my mind these three canes were not associated at all.
I cannot now recall seeing the broken one, though it is probable that
I had seen it, but less probable that I had seen it after it was broken.
I have a vague recollection that my aunt who gave me the money to
get the cane which I sent my father told me his old one was broken.
But I remembered only the ebony cane of many years ago, and the
one I gave him, neither being in any way associated together, and
much less with the one that mine supplanted. Here then are three
168 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
things that are not specially connected in my mind, but which were so
connected in the mind and experience of my father, and there was
every reason in the world for his supposing that the mention of them
would prove his identity. The synthetic unity of the incidents con
nected with those three canes would be difficult to duplicate by any
process imaginable in this universe, but a human or divine memory,
using the last to assume that an infinite process not human might do it.
The various ways of using the cane indicated were incidents of which I
was absolutely ignorant, so that again we get a unity that consists of
several interesting facts : (1) The pertinence of the facts to the
personal identity of the communicator ; (2) The unity between those
that I did know and those that I did not know and some wholly
forgotten ; (3) The unity of the memory between the various sittings ;
(4) The unity of facts, a part of which, and the most important part,
was obtaimed when I was not present, with the facts obtained when I
was present ; (5) The unity of facts and interests on the part of the
communicator which did not exist in my mind, even when the incidents
singly were known to me in most of the cases. All these charac
teristics are simple enough on the spiritistic theor.y, but incompre
hensible on any other. The last feature is the most forcible against
telepathy, as it makes it necessary to confer upon that process a power
to wholly disregard the law of association in the mind of the subject
from which the facts are obtained, and at any distance in space, and
weave them into the proper unity to reproduce the real personality of
another in all its complex significance. In experimental telepathy, as I
have all along remarked, the telepathic process reproduces what is in
the mind of the agent, associates and all, and does not select uncon
nected incidents from this memory and reproduce another personality.
But in the Piper case we must suppose that telepathy can enjoy
ad libitum power to change from the purely receptive to the construc
tive process of reproducing personal identity, and without any regard
to the limitations of time and space, as this incident especially shows.
Now such a theory does not explain. It simply makes the problem
larger and the cause inconceivable.
I could pass through all the more complex passages of the record in
the same way, and they would but illustrate the same characteristic
that I have indicated in instances having interesting and important
variations. This characteristic is the natural unity of consciousness,
represented in the terms of memory and association as known, and
which we might suppose to exist in a discarnate spirit, a unity that did
not exist for my consciousness in the form that is presented in the
record, either in my expectations or in my recognition in all cases, but
which is found on examination to be most natural to the communi
cator. This unity also represents exactly the differences of choice in the
xLL] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 169
incidents that we remark in common life and experience. A. never
recalls exactly the same incidents that B. recalls in their common life
in all their details. The point of interest always varies sufficiently with
the personal equation to originate surprises and facts that one party has
forgotten or even did not know, especially in the selection of incidents
determined by the difference of interests in the events. A. recalls a
boat ride with B. and the fact that they smoked a particular kind of
cigar. B. remembers the ride but not the smoking. Again A. recalls a
conversation with B. about the sale of his farm and a visit to a friend
to whom he was going when he had the conversation. B. recollects the
conversation, but knows nothing about the visit and only learns it by
inquiry after being told it. This is what we have in the incidents dis
cussed and taken from the record. They are the phenomena of indepen
dent intelligences, and not of some all embracing mind or infinite
telepathy cooped up in a woman's brain.
It may be useful in this connection to call the reader's atten
tion to certain significant incidents which I was at first inclined
to attribute to wediumistic manufacture, but which turned out on
careful investigation to have some, I would say considerable, evidential
importance. I refer to the cap incident (pp. 387, 406), the special
pertinence of the hymn, "Nearer my God to Thee" (p. 389), the
strychnine (p. 337), the expression "Give me my hat and let me go"
(pp. 307, 313), my father's visit to me (p. 440), the paper cutter
(p. 379), the reference to Swedenborg (pp. 30-34), all the details of
the Cooper incident (pp. 51-54), and especially the reference to the
Cooper school (p. 420), and perhaps a number of less specific allusions.
Incidents like these, which are often not recalled by the sitter, and
which are as often repudiated as preposterous, are precisely the
kind which demand the most careful examination. The mere failure
to recall an incident is an insufficient ground on which to reject it as
false or even improbable. The memories of communicator and the
sitter, as above remarked, may not necessarily coincide in the details
of their experience. This is perhaps a commonplace of reminiscences.
But it will be interesting to remark that a frequent facsimile of such
incidents occurred in my experiments on the Identification of
Personality in which the communicator often felt assured that he
would succeed in absolutely establishing his identity by a certain
incident which was not recalled at all by the receiver, and he was
often identified by evidence considered less specific and suggestive than
what he had chosen to be final and conclusive. As illustrations of
this disparity of memories let me refer the reader for comparison to
the following incidents in those experiments. See Questions 3, p. 555 ;
8, p. 558; 17, p. 574 ; 21, p. 579 ; 15, 18, 22, p. 585; 12, p. 590;
10, 15, 17, p. 593; 2, 4, p. 596 ; 14, p. 601 ; 15, p. 613. Much of
170 [part'
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Experiment VI., Group A, p. 559, and practically the whole of
Experiment X., p. 572, in the same group, illustrate this peculiarity.
Such facts, taken in connection with the evidential import of the
incidents at first attributed to secondary personality, and later found
to have significance, rather indicate a psychological interest and unity
independent of the sitter's mind, and do much to strengthen the
spiritistic theory.
But there is another aspect to this unity which I have not
mentioned, but which is as noticeable in the instances discussed as in
those that are yet to be produced. Hitherto I have emphasised the
unity that lies outside my mind and have raised the questions
appropriate to such a phenomenon. But there is another aspect of this
synthetic unity which notes the circumstance that a number of
independent facts are selected to constitute the whole incident, as it
was stated in the statistical summary. Our experiences in life represent
an indefinite number of objects or events connected together in a single
whole. The separate objects or facts have no necessary connection in
our minds. There is nothing in the name Adams, for instance, that
necessitates any one's thinking of the Presidency, and nothing in the
two to suggest that President Adams would necessarily indicate a
true combination. Hence when we are forced to study statements
and incidents in a record of this kind we can best test the hypotheses
of telepathy and chance by examining this synthetic unity of the facts
given. If it consists more easily with independent intelligence than
with any other supposition we cannot rationally adopt any other theory.
Let me first take the incident about the old horse Tom (p. 423).
There are four independent facts in this instance, facts that cannot be
put together as they are without supposing intelligence. The facts
are : (1) The name Tom ; (2) the statement that it referred to a horse;
(3) the name of my brother George ; (4) the implication that my
brother was connected with the disposal of the horse. Either of
these names would as easily consist with the idea of a horse as the
other, and neither of them would suggest in a guessing mind the
unity that they actually have in this case, and this is heightened by
the evident demand of Rector that the communicator be certain of his
meaning. One of the facts I did not know. But the unity that they
possess exists in not more than eight living persons, and perhaps less.
It was not complete in my mind. Hence we cannot apply photo
graphic telepathy, whatever that may mean, to my mind alone ; but
the instantaneous selection, from some other living person unknown to
the medium and at the distance of one thousand miles, of the one
incident to give the case the completeness it has, without marring its
truthfulness, is a fact beyond comprehension except on the spirit
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 171
hypothesis. The process is then more than telepathy, according to
the necessities of telepathy itself. The medium has, by supposition,
not only to secure her facts in an isolated form, but to construct the
appropriate unity. The only escape from this is the assumption that
the telepathic process is dodging about through the world and selects
each whole from the individual mind that possesses it. The statement
of that supposition condemns it, especially as it is made in a purely
a priori manner to cover facts, the utmost of which we know is that
they must be explained. Then if it is a receptive process acquiring
the facts from my mind, why not take scores of associated incidents in
my mind about this very horse, instead of going to the minds of others
to complete the whole. It is, instead of this, the constructive act of
an independent intelligence, even if we suppose the incidents selected
from the memory of the sitter by telepathy. The incidents are
selected out of a larger whole in that memory and interwoven with
the fact that I did not know, and all to impress me more favourably
with the hypothesis of spiritism ! How much easier to suppose that
it is nothing but the natural operation of a finite and surviving
consciousness selecting in the ordinary way of memory what it wants
for establishing its identity. There are no miracles in this view, and
scepticism has not to be burdened with a belief in the supernatural.
A precisely similar incident is that in which my aunt Nannie is
said to have helped in bringing up us children after the death of my
mother (p. 449). The independent facts constituting the whole are :
(1) The old home; (2) the town of C. ; (3) the name of my aunt;
(4) the death of my mother ; (5) my aunt's living with us after that
event; (6) my aunt's help in bringing up us children. The
pertinence of the reference to the " old home " is found in the fact
that it tacitly recognises and implies to me, quite definitely, the
distinction between his home after 1889 and the place where he was
born and lived until the year mentioned, the change of residence
having been mentioned at a previous sitting of Dr. Hodgson (p. 406).
As said in the note (p. 449), the phrase "little town of C." is not
correct in the letter, but as proper names always give difficulty, and
the sound of "C" is one of the elements of the right letter in the
Indo-European language from which the correct name, Xenia, is taken,
there is no difficulty for me in recognising the intended meaning. All
the other factors are exactly correct. The general complexity of the
incident would not be greatly altered by the omission of the first two
factors, but the omission of the others or a change in the relation of
time expressed would disturb its integrity very considerably. As it
stands, the conjunction of independent facts involving the right
relations of time and action, and representing events extending over
two or three years' time, makes a consolidated whole that is just what
172 [part
/. H. Eyslop, Ph.D.
the surviving consciousness of my father would produce. The factors
are the salient points also in the incidents of the years involved, and
exhibit the selectiveness that is appropriate to identification, while the
message shows the proper emotional attitude toward my aunt.
Still another illustration of this synthetic unity of independent
factors is the passage in Dr. Hodgson's sitting for me (p. 401), in
which reference is made to this aunt, my brother George, and the
anxieties of all three of us about that brother. The passage includes
incidents about other matters which I shall admit into the whole
because they are all given in one breath, as it were. The indepen
dent facts are: (1) Allusion to the rough country roads; (2) the
" coach " (should be carriage) ; (3) reference to my aunt's motherly
advice; (4) emotional attitude toward that aunt; (5) name of Ohio,
this being his old home ; (6) name of Bartlett ; (7) name of my
brother George; (8) the principal of the school; (9) father's talk with
this principal; (10) the fact that the talk was about my brother;
(11) my father's confessed trouble about this brother; (12) the state
ment that father left (died) with this worry on his mind ; (13) the
fact that we three shared in anxieties about this brother. There are
also several unverifiable factors in the passage, and I have omitted
these because they cannot be in any way considered evidential.
Here then are thirteen independent factors in a sustained message,
one of them (Bartlett) doubtful in its import, but twelve of them
true and synthetically connected in the actual life of my father, the
incidents about my brother covering twenty years of my father's life
and emotional concern. Those regarding him represent an extraordi
nary combination of incidents and pertinence, and they must try the
telepathic theory very severely because they have had, on that
supposition, to be selected individually from my memory and woven
together into a systematic unity by an original constructive power so
as to reproduce adequate evidence of personal identity. Still more
astonishing must be the mention of facts pertaining to the alleged
transcendental world which could neither be gotten from my mind by
telepathy nor verified. This is a strange slip for such an assumed
power to be guilty of, considering that it must deceive us as well
as be deceived itself ! It requires something else than telepathy to
play the part of secondary personality and imitate omniscience both
in this and the truth of the incidents, especially when the allusions to
what is going on in the transcendental world represent truly the
characteristics of my father and his proper emotional attitude toward
the difference between me and my brother, and his appeal to religious
methods of adjusting this difference, precisely as he would do in life.
In presenting this unity it is also important to note that the time and
thought relations have a direct connection with each other in the life
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 173
of my father, while the incidents as mentioned were not so associated
in my memory. The direct connection of the talk with the principal
of the school about my brother with the idea of a college suggested by
my question, remembering that I was not present, and the fact that
this talk about my brother occurred soon after sending me to college,
are matters that supply much psychological interest to this unity.
A similar reference to the same thought at an earlier sitting and in
another connection is suggestive (Cf. p. 338).
If I had only isolated and simple coincidences to deal with, such as
the mere names of the family, or coincidences without synthetic
elements in them and connected with proper names, and if I had to fill
them up with meaning from my own apperceptions, the argument
would be very different. We may tolerate and explain the defects of
such incidents, if we have gotten enough to establish our case for
spiritism, but it is a different thing to build it up from coincidences
that are too slight. Thus, in my first sitting, there is quite a number
of pertinent names—Annie, Charles, Mary, Margaret, possibly Lillie for
Luella, and Elizabeth for Eliza. But relevant as they may be,
especially with the description of who the Mary and Elizabeth
were, naming their relation to my father and mother, they cannot
be treated as conclusive. Of course the fact that in the whole
series of seventeen sittings the right names and relation to me are
given of the members of the family, all the living and three of the
dead, without any proper fishing or guessing at others, is an evidential
consideration. But this treats the matter collectively and not
distributively. But in this first sitting there is too much admixture
of irrelevant matter to give the correct names any weight, unless there
are synthetic elements connected with them. This does not occur
until near the close where several correct facts, connected with the
illness and death of my brother Charles, are indicated. Only at that
point did the facts assume any value. In all the other sittings
a name hardly occurs without the indication of some synthetic
incident, calculated to identify the person intended, and without
the mention of a surname. Some exceptions occur where a
mistake is made fixing the wrong name to a given incident
(pp. 428, 454). Sometimes this synthetic character involves a
whole congeries of facts, as already exemplified. But it is more
frequent that some one incident is linked with another or with a
name, such as a relationship by which the asserted or suspected
identity can be recognised. For instance, I am asked in one case
whether I remember my brother Charles. In another I am asked.
" How is Frank now ? " Lida is given as the name of my sister,
James McClellan is called my uncle, and " Uncle Clarke " is said to
have married my father's sister. In all these instances the synthetic
174 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
element adds immensely to the force of the name, as it equally
excludes guessing and brings an incident into the field of evidential
value. In many cases there is no difficulty in recognising the person
meant by the mere incident given, as it is so specific and peculiar to
the individual, connected with it in the memory of the sitter, as to
■exclude the possibility of illusion. Compare the references to "Nannie"
which I have treated as mistakes for Maggie, my stepmother (pp. 69,
342, 365). But wherever this synthesis occurs, and it is an element
in nearly every incident to which I have attached any evidential value,
it constitutes the natural requisite for proving personal identity, as
it duplicates exactly the phenomena by which we establish personal
identity in ordinary life, when we have not the physical accidents
to help us or to determine our judgment. It is interesting to
compare this with the means of identification in the experiments
imitating the Piper case (pp. 537-623), where the identification
was almost uniformly correct ivithout this synthetic element, except
as it occurred in the accumulative and collective force of separate
incidents. But as a general rule, if not uniformly, incidents
leading to identification did not present this synthetic character,
so that in the Piper case we have an a fortiori argument of
great strength for evidential significance. All this is indefinitely
reinforced by the increased complexity and constantly synthetic unity
■of the phenomena passing as spirit messages, as they represent an
organising intelligence which has to be assumed, not only in addition
to telepathy, but also perfectly in command of all the association
and disassociation necessary to reconstruct into a synthetic unity
the elements that make up an evidential whole, that is true to
reality in all instances except those that are due to the difficulties of
communicating and those that are natural lapses of memory. These
lapses and mistakes should not occur at all, if that organising power
which is external to the brain from which the facts are obtained, and
which goes by the name of telepathy, is half so wonderful as it is
supposed to be.
Let me take the following instance in which this synthetic unity is
very complex and exemplifies not only what has already been illus
trated, but also the dramatic play of personality and the personation
of two independent memories in the same incident, so that the organi
sation of the facts into one whole leading to the identity of two
persons involves a wonderful selection, past all comprehension on the
telepathic supposition. It is the remarkable passage in which my
" uncle Clarke " gets somewhat, though not badly, tangled, and is
helped out by my father by an incident pertinent to himself and not
to my uncle (p. 442). In this incident the following facts are crowded
together all in a few sentences: (1) Name of my sister Annie; (2)
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 17o
statement that she is my sister; (3) my own name in full; (4) name
of " aunt Lida " ; (5) statement that she is my aunt ; (6) name of my
sister Lida ; (7) statement that she is my sister ; (8) statement that she
is still living: (9) mention of my father by himself; (10) his allusion
to the name of my " uncle Clarke " ; (11) statement that Lida was the
member of his family whom he had not mentioned. All these are
true facts, and I have omitted from this catalogue the two names
(Pierce and cousin Annie) which are not correct ; because the name
Pierce, though it is evident who is meant (p. 442), is not necessarily a
partof the main incidentwhose unity I am presenting. The narue"cousin
Annie " is probably a mistake for my " cousin Sannie," who was very
intimatewith myuncle and his family (p. 536). Pierce, however, assuming
my interpretation of it, is pertinent, and the mistake of cousin Annie
is a perfectly explicable factor in the unity remarked. But the eleven
independent facts and relations—all correct—make up a synthetic unity
which it would seem impossible to parallel by any means except the
spiritistic. This is especially true when we see the organising intelli
gence deliberately endeavouring to draw distinctions between persons
not associated together anywhere in my mind except at the sittings,
and then inserting the interruption by my father who takes up in a
remarkable relative clause the allusion to my sister as the one
that he had up to this point failed to mention. The allegation that
my uncle was confused was not a telepathic acquisition from my
mind, because I thought him unusually clear, but the thread of
connection between the mention of my sister's name and father's
memory of the fact that he had not yet mentioned her, is just the
kind of thing that ought to happen if we are dealing with
spirits. In this remarkable passage we find two independent
personalities kept distinct in spite of the mere relative clause connect
ing them, and in addition a memory of the accusation I had made,
that one member of the family had not been mentioned who is here
correctly indicated. The only rational interpretation of such a
phenomenon is the spiritistic.
I could go through the whole record in the same way, but it would
only multiply illustrations without making the argument any clearer.
The reader can work out the application of the principle to other
cases for himself after these examples. They will all represent a con
sistent coherence and true synthesis of facts that might be independent
of each other but for their truth and pertinence for identification of
the persons who are represented as communicators. The whole
organisation of the synthesis is independent of the mind of the
sitter, as they are not wholes of his past personal experience in
the form in which they are presented as messages, but would have to
be selected individually as elements and interwoven into the accurate
176 [part
J. H. Hyslop, PhD.
true incidents that they are by a power which is infinitely vaster than
anything we know in the physiology and psychology of both normal
and abnormal phenomena. But they are unities of consciousness
perfectly simple on the spirit hypothesis, especially when we observe
the natural mistakes that ought not to occur at all with such a power
as we may be tempted to assume in order to escape the spiritistic
theory.
(2) The Dramatic Play of Personality.
By this dramatic play of personality I mean that kind of action and
change of content and characteristics which we should legitimately
expect and demand either in any change of communicators, or in
adjusting the incidences of communication on the "other side," and
which occurs naturally in ordinary conversation between two or
more persons. It is not easy to define this peculiarity, as it must
be indicated only in certain apparent irelevancies and confusion
in the course of a narrative where we note apparent incoherence or an
interruption of the messages, and the appearance of another com
municator. The drama on the stage represents it, and so will any
instance of conversation between two or more persons, but in these
normal cases there are the physical accidents that always initiate as well
as indicate the change before the psychological peculiarities display
themselves. But in the present experiments there are no physical
accidents whatever, except that at times movements of the hand or
changes in the handwriting may indicate a change of personality or
communicator. But very often or generally the indications of it are
either the confusion of the present communicator or the nature of
the message. We have only the psychological and logical content to
exhibit to us this play, and it is represented by statement and con
versation partaking often of the nature of intercourse that cannot
appear appropriate at all, except as something going on between inter
locutors beyond and behind the ordinary stage of activity. That is to
say, the whole phenomenon of these communications partakes of the.
appearance of several distinct personalities acting together for a
definite end, and in the progress of their work they meet difficulties
and obstacles which give rise to interruptions, explanations, directions
and reciprocal conversation with all the marks of distinct and real
personalities, instead of the mechanical play of the ordinary secondary
personality, as we know it in its various natural and artificial forms.
This argument from the play of personality I consider one of
the strongest that can be advanced for the spiritistic theory in
so far as it verifies a previously formed hypothesis, and I shall
examine it at considerable length on that account. I cannot
consider it, however, apart from the unity of consciousness displayed
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 177
by the incidents evidencing personal identity, but only as con
firming the position taken by that argument. It is not enough
that there should be dramatic play of personality without evidence
of personal identity. The latter is the primary problem and sub
ordinates dramatic play to itself. The phenomena of secondary
personality, though they rarely display such elasticity and simulation of
reality as the dramatic play in the Piper phenomena, are yet in
some cases too dangerously near it, in the characteristics that should
make us cautious, for us to stake the case upon this second argument
alone. But in spite of the radical difference between the Piper
phenomena and those of secondary personality generally I do not
think that we should elevate the argument from dramatic play into
the first rank. The criterion for personal identity must be satisfied,
primarily as the condition of any future life for existing beings, and
secondarily as the fact that gives added meaning to the dramatic play,
while the latter is a consequence which we ought to expect on the
supposition that we were dealing with spirits instead of Mrs. Piper's
subliminal. I give the argument great weight, much greater in the
estimation of the Piper phenomena as a whole than in my own sittings
alone. But I do not give it the first importance. It is simply a
corollary of the argument from personal identity, as something which
we should be entitled to expect in a change from one communicator to
another, or in the action that represents anything like an attempt to
give unity and purpose to the management of an exceeding complex
system of conditions. It is this feature of the communications which,
in my mind, plays such havoc with the telepathic hypothesis, while
supporting the spiritistic. It complicates telepathy too much with
the assumption of omnipotence or omniscience on the part of Mrs.
Piper's brain. We have already seen how large that supposition must
be made to meet the conditions of acquisition, but when this dramatic
play of personality has to be included in the functions of the medium's
brain along with telepathy we shall find that we are adding one
infinity to another merely to escape a simple hypothesis which only
applies the known laws of mind to explain phenomena that bear the
character of evidence for personal identity.
In discussing this second argument, or illustrating the dramatic
play of personality, it will be best to take the order of the record and
watch its development as we proceed. I shall improve the opportunity
to call attention on each proper occasion to the incompatibility of the
facts with any telepathic theory that is supposedly represented in either
experimental thought-transference or spontaneous apparitions and
coincidences.
The first feature to be remarked in this dramatic play is the
general place of Imperator and Rector in it. Every sitting is marked
X
178 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
by the action, if only for a time, of one or both these personalities.
I do not enter into any speculation as to what they are, as a pre
condition of a spiritistic conclusion, however much we might desire to
have the question of their nature determined. Their recognition as
anything more than secondary personalities of Mrs. Piper's organism
must be determined by the issue of psychical research, as I have no
information leading to their identification as they appear in the
communications of the present record. If the spiritistic theory be
accepted as the most rational account of the phenomena here pur
porting to represent personal identity, we may well accept Imperator
and Rector to be what they claim to be, namely, discarnate spirits.
There is much in my sittings, more independent of them, to suggest
their genuinely spiritistic character, and this without insisting upon the
evidential incidents that are so necessary in any adequate scientific
proof, and that are so apparent in the various individuals who are the
communicators to me, and who are trying to establish their identity.
This evidence is the distinct, consistent, and intelligent part they play
in the whole phenomenon, representing as complete a unity of con
sciousness for each one of them as the most rigid sceptic could demand
of any real person whatsoever. The whole content of their communi
cations, their manner and their character, are out of proportion with
anything we know of Mrs. Piper, or of secondary personality generally.
But I shall not assume that their personality is exempt from the same
evidential considerations that are applied to the other communicators,
and so must suspend the issue until the case is made out for the latter,
as the main argument must depend upon evidence for identity. Of
course, if we assume that Imperator and Rector are the secondary
personalities of Mrs. Piper, we have large enough powers of intelligent
action assumed to make it all the more difficult to transcend the
telepathic hypothesis. Hence if a man choose to reverse the argument,
he may wish to say that we should suspend judgment upon the identity
of the communicators other than the "controls," until some decisive
hypothesis has been reached concerning the latter. That is to say,
instead of subordinating the character of Imperator and Rector to
the issue of the identity of others, we may have to settle the choice
between spirits and secondary personality in their case in order to
justify the abandonment of telepathy in favor of spiritism in the case
of other communicators. Of course telepathy is out of court in the
personality of Imperator and Rector, and in lieu of evidence for their
identity we might assume that they are merely secondary personalities
with remarkable powers that might include sufficient telepathic
capacity to satisfy the problem. But suggestive as this objection
and way of putting the matter may be, it is right here that the
dramatic play of personality comes in to both corroborate the unity
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 179
of consciousness and identity for other communicators and to offer
evidence for the spiritistic nature of Imperator and Rector against
secondary personality, and in spite of the lack of the evidence for
identity in their cases. It is simply the want of evidence for identity
in their cases that suggests secondary personality, as in the usual
simulation of spiritism. But the slightest study of the communica
tions of Imperator and Rector, especially in matter not yet published,
will readily disillusion the observer regarding the right to make this
assumption too easily. The phenomena which they have exhibited ever
since they supplanted Phinuit are too spiritistically real in their appear
ance to be dismissed hastily, and when we understand this dramatic
play, which it is by no means easy to do without a series of sittings
in order personally to see it work we shall quickly discover reasons in
its realism to justify its subordination to the identity problem of
persons whose identity it is possible to establish. The beginning and
close of each sitting will indicate why this assertion can be made and
sustained.
( Now in order to understand this play of personality rightly we
must form a clear conception of what the Piper phenomenon purports
to be, and of its modus operandi, as described by these chief figures
themselves, Imperator and Rector. It must be remembered distinctly
that the phenomenon does not represent itself as an immediate com
munication with the discarnate spirit, whose identity is at issue. This
was not often the case even in the Phinuit regime, and can be said
never to be the case now. This fact is in favour of its claims, as
it consists with the whole superficial character of the affair and
diminishes the chances for accusing it of deception without making
this so archly fiendish as to baffle all hope of finding it either
intelligible or finite in its capacities. But whether so or not, it consis
tently represents itself as only an indirect communication with the
spirits whose identity is at issue. Hence it purports to be a coterie or
group of discarnate spirits, with Imperator at their head, endeavouring
to reveal immortality to man, supervising the conditions, and regulating
the rights and occasions of communication between the terrestrial and
a transcendental world. One of them, usually Rector, serves as
amanuensis in writing the messages purporting to come from the com
municating spirit. Sometimes between him and the communicator are
one or more intermediaries through whom the message must come
before Rector obtains it and writes it for the sitter, just as if several
persons were necessary to manage a telephone. Compare the inter
ruptions of G. P. (p. 211). This situation would naturally give rise
to the dramatic play of personality and much else besides, especially
if the machine used had any tendency to express automatically
what was going on among the group in the mutual conversation
x 2
180 [PAKT
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
and directions that might take place in the management of so
complex an affair with its difficulties and misunderstandings. Any
change of person or actor, or confusion in the communicator, would
reflect itself in characteristics and statements which would represent
the distinctive features of varying personality.
This is exactly what we observe in the record. The communica
tions show precisely the differences which we should expect to find
when different persons communicate. The personal equation should
and does count in the results as distinctly as would be expected. It
ought to be apparent how this tells against telepathy, as there is no altera
tion in the conditions of Mrs. Piper or her powers in such a matter,
nor is there any alteration in the data in the memory of the sitter
from which the facts are presumably drawn by the telepathic process.
But of this again. The main point at present is the distinctive marks
of different personalities represented in the various communicators,
in the change from one to the other. For instance, the messages from
Rector are perfectly regular when no other person is communicating,
and no confusion is apparent except as incident to disturbance in the
"light," as they usually call the medium, or the conditions for
communicating. His communications are almost wholly uninterrupted
and free from confusion. This is true on any theory whatsoever.
The difference seems to correspond to the differences of real persons
in regard to their familiarity perhaps with the conditions of communi
cation. It is marked by a distinctness and freedom from artificiality
that never seems to occur in the phenomena of hypnosis and secondary
personality generally, especially when the physical accompaniments of
such phenomena involving external changes of expression and character
so often betray their subjective source, while here in the Piper case
there is nothing of this kind. This difference remarked is a suggestive
one, and must be carefully studied before rejecting its significance
in the interests of spiritism.
There are two special features of this dramatic play that claim
attention. They are : (1) The mental and moral characteristics of the
different personalities concerned, and (2) the reproduction of those
interruptions, apparent incoherences and confusions, and interplay of
conversations, remarks, directions, cautions, etc., which would occur
under some such conditions as the phenomena purport to represent,
namely, situations in a spiritistic world that are exactly similar to
those in actual life.
In regard to the first of these features, the difference between
Phinuit and the two present " controls," Imperator and Rector, is
extreme. Phinuit was in many respects a conceited and vulgar
personality ; not always so, but often enough to create a dislike toward
him. In situations trying to his temper he often displayed that
xLL] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 181
in inner which showed no special refinement such as actually
characterises Mrs. Piper, and still less did he comprehend the problem
as it presented itself to the sitter, so that he assumed a browbeating
temper, scolding like a vixen at times. He was so proud of his
powers that he was ready and willing to undertake almost any experi
ment to show himself off, until he would discredit his own claims by
phenomena that exhibited no bearing on his own identity or on that
of anybody else. There was absolutely nothing of the religious
nature about him. He was a subject quite suitable for purgatorial
discipline. He had a sense of humour and was ready to joke and
play tricks. It is the very opposite with Imperator and Rector. They
are nothing if not religious. Their whole phraseology and style of
thought are intensely religious, and represent this characteristic in a
very lofty manner. They are, or seem to be, as lacking in the sense
of humour as a Puritan, and exhibit a moral and religious seriousness
that has no equal outside the church of the most orthodox type. They
take their mission far more seriously than Phinuit, appreciate its
importance morally and religiously very much better than he did or
could, and exhibit no disposition to show off in remarkable per
formances. They never condescend to wit or satire, but are as solemn
as undertakers. Yet it is not an artificial solemnity, but one
characterised by a keen and profound conception of the moral serious
ness of life and its meaning. Imperator's temper represents, in its
philanthropic sympathy for man, as nearly as anything I know, the
character and purposes of Jesus Christ. The main evidence of this
last statement is in records not yet published. There is not a trace of
this in Phinuit. Besides, Imperator is dignified and imperious. His
name describes his character exactly. He insists rigidly, as generally
justified by results, upon conformity with his orders, but his disposition
to charity, in spite of this, for the weaknesses and shortcomings of
man is commensurate with the infinite pathos of human life. In this
Rector follows him, but in the most obsequious obedience and
deference. They address the sitter in the scriptural second person.
Phinuit never did so. Their contrast with G. P. is just as marked,
without in any way identifying him with Phinuit. G. P. is a secular
type, a jolly man of the world, intellectually dignified and refined, but
nothing of Puritanic piety and cant in him. I do not use these terms
in any bad sense, but only to indicate that he does not expose himself
to the criticism of the sceptic who does not like religious phrases.
He is not above a " By Jove," or " confound it," which you would
suppose might shock the sensibilities of Imperator and Rector who
freely affiliate with him. There is not a trace of the solemn and
unctuous seriousness about him, but he is a thoroughly companion
able clubman, thoroughly human, as Phinuit was in an entirely
182 [part
J. H. Hyelop, Ph.D.
different way. He has the intellectual refinement of Imperator and
Rector without their piety and unction, and all the humour without
any of the vulgarity of Phinuit. He stands midway in character,
as he does in history, between Phinuit and Imperator with Rector.
But whatever we may think of these personalities they are in all their
distinctness and reality just what makes the individuality of different
persons in real life, and the parts they play are carried out with the
same invariable consistency and pertinence to their claims that we
observe among living men in the everyday affairs of actual thought
and conduct. These are not telepathic phenomena. They do not in
the least represent acquisitions from the minds of the sitters, but are
the characteristics of independent intelligences, and far more conceiv
able on that hypothesis than on any other, as the farther development
of the argument will show.
I leave these traits just described to be studied in the record by
the reader and without further comment. But I wish to emphasise
the fact that only those who have made themselves familiar- in some
way with the Piper phenomena, and who have very closely investigated
the internal connections and disconnections of the communications,
representative of these mental and moral distinctions of personality,
can appreciate the second aspect of this dramatic play, upon which I
intend to concentrate the most of my attention. I simply suspend
judgment on any conclusion that may be considered from the point of
view represented by the personal characteristics of the parties just
described, and turn attention upon the facts in the record that both
illustrate their peculiarities in it, and indicate a play of personality
involving far more than their individualities and complicated with
those of other communicators. This greatly enriches the argument.
This aspect of dramatic play is particularly noticeable and
interesting in my first sitting (pp. 1S4-190). I shall examine this
feature of the case very fully in this sitting, because it is the one
instance of general confusion which would have led me to discredit
the spiritistic nature of the phenomena, had I stopped short at that
sitting, in which I did not discover the dramatic play until later
sittings threw their light upon it. I was not familiar enough with the
modus operandi of the case to understand the nature and importance
of this characteristic, in spite of the care bestowed in three readings
of Dr. Hodgson's Report (Proceedings, Vol. XIII.). But as later
sittings enabled me to understand this dramatic play, it came
into more special notice and prominence in this sitting, and must
receive that careful examination which will show both the internal
unity of this sitting with all others and the dramatic exhibition that
suggests its spiritistic character without the evidential pertinence of
its incidents which is weak. It is all the more interesting to
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 183
remark this play in the first sitting, because I had to reject it as
worthless evidentially at the time. There was nothing in the whole
sitting, except some of the statements of my brother Charles near the
close, that I felt could possess any claims to being either telepathic or
spiritistic. I afterwards learned that some names and statements were
pertinent that I had rejected. But within my knowledge at the time
and without the light of later experiments I had to treat the sitting
very much as Dr. Weir Mitchell, Professor Peirce, and Professor
Norton were disposed to treat their single experiments (Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., pp. 460-462, 482-3, 525-6), except that the sitting
effectually excluded illusion and suggestion from the explanation of the
phenomena, and I had gone especially to test these hypotheses. But
it did not impress me as doing more than this. It appeared only as a
mass of confusion that had no other intelligible feature in it than an
attempt to find out who I was and to determine who should be the
communicators, as was quite natural under the conditions. But
these very facts enhance the interest that attaches to the study of
the dramatic play in it.
It will be important to remark by way of introduction that this
dramatic play of personality takes two different forms of a general
character. One is a dramatic adjustment to various situations in the
connections between a terrestrial and a supposed transcendental world,
and the other is a dramatic interplay between the personalities in this
transcendental world. Both may have distinct aspects, an evidential
and a non-evidential. The non-evidential consists in the play that
produces statements and incidents which are conceivably explicable
by secondary personality. The evidential play consists in those
instances which reflect both the separateness of independent person
alities and the transmission of data not referable to the experience
either of Mrs. Piper or the alleged personality intermediating the
communication. The latter is the more important and might well
claim an independent value. The former, however, may have no other
value than external consistency with the main hypothesis, confirming
what we should logically infer from it.
But there must be no misunderstanding the importance which
I attach to this discussion of dramatic play. Though distinguishing
between the evidential and non-evidential aspects of it, I shall not
claim for any of it an independent value for the spiritistic theory, but
use the phenomenon only as a verification of an hypothesis suggested
on other grounds. In every form it is extremely useful for determining
the limitations of telepathy as this is known or supposed experi
mentally, and hence for that purpose I need not distinguish nicely
between the evidential and the non-evidential illustrations of the
process. Not to encumber myself, however, with the difficulties of
184 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
making out an independent evidential case on the ground of dramatic
play, I am willing for argument's sake to accord it no other importance
than the confirmation of the hypothesis necessary to account for the
evidence of personal identity. Hence the only vantage ground that
I reserve for myself is the objective facts in the lives of the com
municators, leaving a margin for individual opinion in regard to this .
dramatic play, in those who have not had the personal experience of a
series of sittings and the study of the data which such experiments
elicit. I am confident, however, that the dramatic play will be
appreciated at a high value by all who take the pains to understand it
in its details, even though they are not tempted with the conviction
that the spiritistic theory is the correct one. My object, not being
one to proselytise or to convince others that spiritism is necessarily
true, is attained if I can only secure the admission that this hypothesis
is to be reckoned with in the problem instead of ridiculed without
consideration. I can well afford, therefore, to make a chivalrous
concession of the argument from dramatic play to those who are so
infected with the generalities of secondary personality that they will
not take the pains to distinguish the differences. Hence it is with
this concessive mood in view that I examine so carefully the least
evidential sitting in the record, partly in deference to the condemnation
which I had to pronounce upon it evidentially and partly as a reproach
to those who were so ready to indulge in negative opinions after but
a single sitting and who would not admit the a priori difficulties which
are patent on the face of the problem. The evidential illustrations
of it -outside the first sitting will be so much gain for the spiritistic
hypothesis, though I need not accord them more than the function of
realising what we must expect of the supposition advanced to account
for personal identity.
The usual preliminaries which characterise the Imperator regime
are conducted, as generally, by Rector in this first sitting. The record
will indicate this clearly. The first incident of interest is the remark
of Rector that G. P. is coming. Then between sentences that repre
sent some of G. P.'s thoughts and some of Rector's, there is a state
ment that he will leave G. P. to answer questions, that is to do the
writing in the communications. Then G. P. immediately "steps in"
and addresses Dr. Hodgson in the usual way after Rector bids us
" good-bye," having said that he must give his attention to another
" light " present (a remark whose significance was not explained and
that is not intelligible to me). The change of personality is marked
by two features. There is first the change from the scriptural to the
ordinary use of the personal pronoun, Rector using the former and
G. P. the latter. Second, there is the entirely unconventional, free
xLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 185
and easy manner of G. P.'s mode of address, which is an invariable
index of his personality. It is the use of the pronoun that enables us <
to distinguish in the messages of Rector, after saying that G. P. was
coming, the influence of Rector's thoughts on the communications.
But it is Rector still that dominates and actually explains the purpose
of G. P.'s presence. But whether we choose to attach any value to this
or not, it is clear that the personality is changed when Rector abandons
the " machine " and leaves the writing to G. P. This G. P. now
carries on a conversation with Dr. Hodgson after making a reference to
a desire to see who has come to greet him, meaning evidently myself,
and goes on to speak of things about his brother. This has no
relevancy to me, and bears no characteristic of telepathy from any
one, certainly not from me. The whole passage was absolutely unin
telligible to me, but was clear to Dr. Hodgson, though it represents no
intelligible telepathic content. This aside, however, as we may assume
that it is really telepathic, yet it is absurd on the part of the
telepathic subject to go at any other task than the one for which
this sitting was arranged. Why direct its energies to Dr. Hodgson
when it knew, or ought to have known, that I was the person to deal
with, a fact that is acknowledged in the curiosity to see who had come
to greet him 1 All that followed, relevant to Dr. Hodgson, is a piece
of nonsense, supposing that the telepathic subject or percipient
has any discriminative power at all. The telepathic percipient is
there by supposition to deal with me and not with Dr. Hodgson, and
if it is the victim of mechanical methods of procedure why does this
characteristic not appear constantly instead of the intelligent adapta
tion to a situation that betrays just what we should expect on the
spiritistic hypothesis. The scene is realistic and expressive of a super
sensible situation and independent intelligence carrying on processes
wholly distinct from the attempt to acquire facts from the sitter.
This play is deepened in the immediate order for Dr. Hodgson to
leave the room for a minute. The representation is that there is a
lady who wishes to speak with him, and on his leaving the attention is
directed to ine.
Now on any telepathic hypothesis, involving the assumption that
Dr. Hodgson was a disturbing influence, his departure ought to have
been followed by clearer communications and access to my memories.
But this was not the case ! The messages at once became exceedingly
confused, contrasting with what they had been up to this point.
Much of the confusion was due to the necessity of repeating the
written words because I was not familiar with the automatic script.
But this is appreciated from the outset, either as if the supposed
telepathy was not hindered by my being a stranger, which contradicts
with the confusion, or as if the situation was as real as it is represented.
186 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
When Dr. Hodgson returns the conversation which goes on with him
is perfectly intelligent, and so is the attempt to meet the difficulties
under which I must decipher the writing. Finally, in reply to an
appeal by Dr. Hodgson for his remaining, G. P. yields with reluctance
and only after the explanation that the difficulty occasioned by Dr.
Hodgson's presence is due to the attendance of the latter's friends.
But G. P. says that he can prevent confusion only on condition that
he be able to keep away these friends.
A long series of communications follows with a number of
pertinent names and suggestive indications of relationship, though in
spite of Dr. Hodgson's absence they are confused almost beyond
tolerance. But Dr. Hodgson returns just before my brother dis
appears, and then occurs a most interesting statement by G. P., who
stopped writing messages from my friends and explained that the
confusion was due to the presence of three persons who were all trying
to speak to me at once, and a lady is allowed to have her trial after
G. P. grants Dr. Hodgson's request to remain. This lady claims to be
my mother, and in spite of Dr. Hodgson's presence, which is presum
ably disturbing, she delivers a series of communications that are as false
and irrelevant to both of us as they are clear. They were perfectly free
from confusion and without hesitancy in proper names. I repudiated
the pertinence of her statements, but it did not alter her assurance that
she was right and that I was her son. This is telepathy ! I reject it
a second time, and am met with the same persistence. I do it a third
time and G. P. expresses his ignorance entirely, indicating that he is
merely telling me what he hears, this not being from my mind at
all ! Now, if Dr. Hodgson's presence is disturbing, how is it that
other minds in the world are not disturbing when the telepathy is at a
distance 1
The explanatory interruption in response to Dr. Hodgson's
question involves a reference to me in the third person, as the
communicator's friend, and is followed by a statement directed to
Dr. Hodgson in the second person, all explaining the difficulties
of the situation which was understood by neither of us until the
issue made it clear. But G. P.'s appreciation of the case on my
side, and the difficulties with which he had to contend on his side,
is a most interesting feature of it at this point, as it recognises the
desire that I shall " hear " him, assuming that I shall have my
difficulty with the reading when the fact is that I cannot understand
the messages, while he apologises for the confusion by telling Dr.
Hodgson that he cannot " half hear " when he is present. He begs
him to retire, and then explains to me the reason for his confusion,
this being the simultaneous talking of two spirits, one of them represent
ing what is in my mind and the other not ! ! This is then followed by
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 187
an appeal to the communicator, apparently, to come and listen and
a message is begun which is suddenly interrupted with the remark
addressed to some one on the other side to help him keep the communi
cator's thought clear. This is neither taken from my mind nor directed
to me, the whole process being absurd and unnecessary on the telepathic,
and quite possible or probable on the spiritistic. ^
But the passage beginning with the explanation to Dr. Hodgson is
an interlocution in which A., speaking to B. about C, speaks correctly of
D. as B.'s friend, while explaining his own ignorance as to its being an
assured fact, giving this as a reason for allowing the confusion to go on
until D. can be the judge of what is correct. Immediately he asks D.
in the proper grammatical form to listen to him while he also asks C. to
retire for a reason that is plausible on the supposition that some one
is present who should be excluded, but which is not so on any other
assumption. This is the play of an individual mind in a situation
such as the present is described to be. The mental synthesis is neither
Dr. Hodgson's nor mine, so that if we are to give any unity to the
whole affair nothing is more evident than the insufficiency of telepathy
to account for it. But passing this by as uncertain, it is sufficient to
remark that this independent interruption of the communication, the
evident intelligence of it, and the peculiar logical unity and charac
teristic fitness of it to the situation, are consistent and suggestive of
spirit action, and are so much so, that it will require the most extra
ordinary supposition of secondary personality to supplant it. The
interplay and adjustment to an exceedingly complex situation that
follows, and that is wholly superfluous on the telepathic access, which
has already shown its admission to the desired reservoir, is past
all praise for pertinent appearance of the spiritistic. The dismissal
of Dr. Hodgson, consistent with the whole history of the Piper
case, the explanation of the confusion that is consistent with the
ignorance of my identity and with the confusion immediately
preceding, and the disappearance of the lady after my insistence that
she was an intruder, to be immediately followed by that remarkable
suggestion to the communicator claiming to be my brother that he
come closer to listen, and then, as if the greater proximity to material
conditions effected an unconscious state, to be prodded and kept clear
(Of. Experiments in Hypnosis, p. 635), are all a part of a complex whole
that is apparently incomprehensible on any other supposition than that
it is real. This is no freak of telepathy, as the data necessary to make
that explanation relevant are wholly wanting. There is nothing
representing such a situation in our minds. We may resort to
secondary personality and its fabrications, as all scientific minds should
do if phenomena indicative of personal identity were not present, but
assuming that the business of the medium's subliminal in these
188 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
experiments is telepathic, this acting is absolutely superfluous and only
complicates what might be kept simple, except as spiritistic realism
determines complications which are not of the medium's own making.
From the point at which I indicate that the lady claiming to be
my mother is an intruder, to the close of the sitting, there is no inter
ruption that is not intelligible on the natural interpretation of the
case, but the communications proceed, such as they are, with desirable
smoothness and unity, except that it requires the light of later sittings
to discover this unity and exclusion of foreign intrusion. But in the
effort to get this condition and to secure the right communicators, the
dramatic play of personality coincides with just such a situation as my
precautions must create on the spiritistic theory. In this situation we
should most naturally expect confusion and interference until some
thing could be ascertained, in some way, regarding my identity, and
the legitimate reason Obtained for shutting out all impertinent com
municators. From the telepathic hypothesis the play gets neither
unity nor rationality in its confusion. We should have to combine
with that theory a number of others quite as large and quite as
wanting in evidential support in order even to obtain a proximate
explanation. The spontaneous diversions and apparent incoherences
are a part of an intolerable confusion on the telepathic theory, but of
consistent and intelligible unity on the spiritistic, representing it, as it
must be, in the form of communication under difficulties.
The close of the sitting was marked by an incident of some interest
in this very connection. Dr. Hodgson remarked that we should have
to go, saying this to G. P., and he replies : " Wait until I get
[Imperator] to take this young man away." I then arose from my
chair and walked past Mrs. Piper to the other side of the room, when
the hand wrote : " He walked right in front of him. Why does he do
this ? " This was followed by a few more communications from my
brother, which were suddenly interrupted by G. P.'s remarks to Dr.
Hodgson that he hoped to " get the lady clear again." All the rest
explains itself. But this play is not that of telepathy, as I did not
know or think I was walking in front of a " spirit !" I might very well
be asked by the secondary personality why I had walked as I did.
But if we attributed to telepathy the knowledge of my walking
as I did, two insuperable objections arise to this supposition.
First, this quick access to my consciousness is in flat contradiction
with the whole sitting and its dramatic play, which are represented
as conditions involving great difficulties, and the confusion supports
this beyond question. Second, the statement that I walked in front
of a spirit was not of a fact in my mind. Then, again, why, if tele
pathy is the process, does G. P. " hope to get the lady clear again " ?
If he refers to the lady who claimed to be my mother and was not this,
xLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 189
not only have I shut her out definitely and thus precluded all excuse for
considering her again, except on the supposition that, as a spirit, G. P.
imagines the difficulty to be in a lack of clearness ; but also telepathy,
after having gotten the pertinent names for communicators, ought to
be able to tell that the names which have no application to me are
irrelevant, especially after I have repudiated them ! There is therefore
an internal contradiction in the telepathic hypothesis at this point. It
has the power to get the right names and incidents and none to dis
tinguish and to prevent the giving of false ones, though this weakness
is not specially discernible in later sittings ! It knows enough to be
right, but insists on doing the wrong which it does not know enough
to prevent ! On the other hand, if he refers to my real mother, all
the facts were clear enough in my memory and active consciousness at
the time to remove all excuses about her not being clear.
My notes call attention (p. 362) to another feature of this
dramatic play in which the communicators are the actors rather than
the trance personalities in connection with them. I shall not examine
it at length at present, as the notes ought to suffice. But I shall
allude to one or two accidents of it. The main feature of it is the
fact that I had supposed there was absolutely no trace of my father in
it, nor of anyone else in the family except my brother and sister. But
the incidents of later sittings show with tolerable distinctness the pro
bability that both my father and my uncle are communicators in this
sitting, though they were too confused for me to discover or suspect it
at the time. One of the facts, too, represents an automatism on the
part of my father which was not an intended message at all, but just
the remark, absolutely unknown to me as a habit of his in life, that
he would make on the sudden discovery that he had to go out
of doors on some errand. The remark was : " Give me my hat "
(p. 307.) As the various communicators discovered that the sitter
was an interested relative, the play of effort to reach me would
naturally show just the tendency to dismiss the lady falsely
claiming to be my mother, and to test the qualifications of those
who agreed on my identity to take her place. The confusion then
that prevents me from suspecting any other communicators than
those who succeed in giving their names is just what would occur in
the process of determining who should be allowed to monopolise the
" machine." My ignorance of the incident about the hat, and the
pertinence of other indefinite incidents, all subject even to the
hypothesis of guessing, and the transition from person to person
without intimation to me, taken with my unfamiliarity with the
whole affair, writing and all, prevented my suspecting a unity which
later events enable me to give to the sitting very distinctly. The play
is, then, that of several relatives talking all at once into a " telephone''
190 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
which they have suddenly discovered leads to their friends, and
it is allowed to go on until the parties who are managing the
" machine " ascertain who has the ear of the receiver. This becomes
measurably clear before the sitting closes, and the second sitting opens
with a perfectly distinct exclusion of all communicators whatsoever
but my father until the proper interval justifies the admission of
another relative. The action is exactly as if the trance personalities
had discovered my identity and the right of the communicators to
speak, and then shut out disturbing agencies, and with them the con
fusion that so marks this first sitting and that prevented my suspecting
the identity of more than my brother and sister. But there is nothing
to suggest telepathy in the development of this dramatic play, as its
whole procedure indicates limitations in the trance personalities
that ought not to exist on the telepathic hypothesis with its
suppposed large powers, to say nothing of two true incidents that I
did not know, namely, "Give me my hat," and the name of my father's
sister Mary.
In the first sitting we have found that the whole dramatic play
assumes the character of an attempt to find out who I am and who
shall be permitted to communicate. Now in spite of the doubt in
G. P.'s mind at the close of the sitting regarding the lady whom he
hopes to keep clear, the opening and continuance of the second and all
later sittings presents the appearance of the trance personalities'
having decided, in the time elapsing between the first and second
sitting, who I was and who should communicate. The peculiar dramatic
play of the first sitting, therefore, is abandoned and the communications
of the second are opened at once with the appearance of assurance
that they had found the right communicator, and all intruders are
shut out. Whether the facts are as I have represented them on the
" other side " is not the question. That must always be a matter of
conjecture. But the differences between the dramatic play of the two
sittings can be described in no other language, if they are to be under
stood in their apparent character at least. Accepting, therefore, the
representation that the trance personalities have in the meantime
assured themselves of my identity and secured a reason for suspending
further experiments in that direction, we can easily understand the
change of dramatic play which is exhibited in this second and all later
sittings, and the assurance with which this second sitting starts out in
the recognition of the right communicator. The assumptions which we
have to make regarding the dramatic play in this situation are only
the difficulties of the communication itself, and we find that the results
conform to this conception of the case. But the dramatic play of the
first sitting changes its character in the later sittings according to this
xu.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 191
very idea of the situation. It now takes the form of a change of
communicators with only such a part in it of the trance personalities
as either the change and intervals may indicate, or as the conditions
of communication necessitating a change may prompt or render
opportune.
It appears that communicators cannot long stand contact with
material conditions, and must retire from the " machine " for a respite,
to use the language of the sittings, which can be done on any
theory. In the interval of this change from one communicator to
another a sentence is often thrown in that is wholly irrelevant to the
message, whether this sentence comes from the communicator or from
the amanuensis. This may even be true of interruptions in the com
munications from the same personality. This characteristic often
determines both the confusion and the dramatic play, and unless we
perceive this fact we shall lose a large part of the significance of the
Piper phenomena as a whole.
The first part of the dramatic play in the second sitting occurs
between the trance personalities after the usual greetings, and is indi
cated in statements that inform the sitter of the coming communicator.
There is the representation of excitement in the hand of the medium
and the written order for calm. The answer, "Yes, I will," by the com
municator is not a message to me, but an automatism of the " machine "
indicating an interlocution going on with the parties in the transcen
dental world. Immediately the communications begin, and are inter
rupted only by language that first indicates disturbance, namely, " I
want my head clear. I am choking," and then the statement, '; I am
going; will come back soon." Without any other intimation the com
municator changes from my father to my brother, as both name and
content indicate. The language that follows shows that a slight
altercation takes place between my brother and some one who appears
to treat him as an intruder (p. 314). He rather passionately appeals
for permission to speak and gives a reason for it, which evidently
convinces " the powers that be," for they allow him to communicate.
In the midst of this Rector suddenly intromits the statement, after a
little delay, " Listen, friend, have patience with me," and then, as if
in explanation to me or Dr. Hodgson, " Imperator is here, and we
will keep them quite calm." From my standpoint there is no excuse
for any of these diversions from the communications. There is no
apparent reason for the altercation with my brother in the telepathic
theory of the case. He had been a welcome communicator the day
before, and telepathy, by supposition, had admitted him as a possible
communicator. Why not proceed with him to-day as before? Nor
is there any trace of disturbance that makes it apparent that Hector's
remark just quoted is called for. Both passages represent a situation
192 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
wholly ouside the mind of the sitter and without excuse from tele
pathy. One can imagine that the altercation was in favour of my
" uncle Charles," especially as my brother and my uncle here pass
under the same name. The ready submission of the objector to my
brother rather indicates the discovery of a mistake. This, of course,
is purely speculative, but I indulge this mood for the moment to make
intelligible what cannot be understood from the standpoint of either
telepathy or secondary personality. Its whole character imitates some
intelligent purpose so obtrusively that it must get the credit of this
idea on any theory whatsoever, and we can appreciate it only by
representing the process as one beyond the mind of the sitter and
imitative, at least, of a reality which is certainly expressible in
spiritistic terms.
This dramatic play takes on a realistic character of another kind in
the messages which follow. My notes show that I have had some
difficulty in deciding whether all of them come from one communicator,
my uncle, or a part of them, the first part, from my father. The
fact that indicates the difficulty is the confusion occurring at one point
in the passage which is pertinent to my uncle in all but one statement.
After the indication of his inability to remain longer in the words,
" Mother, mother, going," etc., my father appears and attempts
to continue communications regarding this uncle, though indicating
that it is he, and not my uncle, that is doing it. There is a distinct and
natural allusion to the statement a little earlier that he would be back
soon. The interesting part of the communication is the fact that
between the two there seems to be a concerted effort to indicate
the presence and identity of my uncle who had died so recently. Both
show the same natural solicitude for the comfort of my aunt, the wife
of this uncle and sister of my father, her Christian name being correctly
given. But this allusion of father to the uncle contains a train of
thought not at all characteristic of the uncle and soon reverts to affairs
not related to my uncle at all. It starts out, however, with the
intelligent recognition of what was clearly enough indicated by the
content of my uncle's message, though this uncle did not attempt
his own name.
Now the death of my uncle was such as to give the content of his
communications some interest. He was injured by an accident on the
railway, and died a few hours afterwards. I learned accidentally
that the allusion to my aunt's discouragement and despair had more
specific importance than usual. I treated it at the time as indicating
the natural sorrow that attends such a bereavement, but did not know
or suspect that this grief was so near a dangerous result to herself.
Hence the interest shown by both communicators in trying to assuage
sorrow was especially natural under the circumstances and shows
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 193
some indications of the recognition that there were special reasons
for speaking of my uncle. On the telepathic hypothesis there is no
reason for my father to speak in this way of the matter, as there was
nothing specific in my memory associated with the death of this uncle.
The change of communicator usually results in a change of matter in
the messages pertinent to the identity of the communicator from the
standpoint of the sitter. But here the natural sympathy of the
communicator with his sister in her sorrow suggests an independent
intelligence. That is to say, we have a dramatic play in this case
representing two personalities dealing with the same content with
just the modification that suits their personal relations to the case,
while my father makes the right suggestion in speaking of his sisters
as " the girls," and in this plural recognises the misfortune which his
other sister, Nannie, had met just a month earlier in the loss of her
husband almost as suddenly as the sister Eliza referred to in the
communications. The dramatic play has thus a psychological unity
in diversity corresponding to the situation itself, and not correlated
with any memories that are associated in my mind.
This dramatic play occurs in a still more interesting form when
this uncle appears the second time (p. 317). The message began :
"What can I do to make Eliza feel that I am not dead? (S. : Tell us
who are with you, and that will help Eliza.) Yes, all, you shall know
each one in her. You are not Robertson [?] are you ? (R. H. : Is that
Robertson 1 ) You are not George are you ? (S : No, I am not George.)
(R. H. : I am not. . .) No, James, I know you very well, but this other
one. . . did you know the boys. . . do you know me 1 "
At the time I took the " Robertson " to be a mistake for my
brother Robert. But the last sentence of the passage indicated clearly
that the mention of my aunt was by my uncle, and that " Robertson "
was a reference to father, to know if I was " Robert's son." My
father's name was Robert and my uncle always called him this.
(Cf. reference to "Robertson" in the first sitting p. 310). The
question, then, "You are not Robertson (Robert's son) are you?" and
" You are not George, are you 1 " George being the name of my oldest
brother, reveal the communicator's discovery that Dr. Hodgson is a
stranger. My reply shows that I supposed the question expressed
a doubt about myself and not as directed to Dr. Hodgson. The
response then that followed my statement and that of Dr. Hodgson,
" No, James, I know you, but this other one. . . did he
know the boysJ . . do you know me?" becomes wonderfully
pertinent and significant. My uncle never knew or heard of Dr.
Hodgson and it would be natural enough for him to wonder whether
my brother George happened to be with me, though telepathy ought to
have corrected any such impression. Nor did Dr. Hodgson know
o
194 J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D. [part
anything of my uncle. The death of this uncle had also been concealed
from Dr. Hodgson. The whole situation, therefore, was a perfectly
natural one, and the dramatic play has all the verisimilitude of
reality in it.
The absurdity of telepathy in this case ought to be apparent at a
glance. After twelve years' work and acquaintance with Dr. Hodgson
Mrs. Piper's subliminal does not know him, but queries whether he is
not my brother George ! And this in spite of the fact that he is
constantly recognised by Rector and G. P., and is known by Mrs.
Piper's supraliminal ! Moreover, telepathy with its supposed capacities
for discrimination in my memory ought never to make such a mistake,
but should know at once that Dr. Hodgson was not my brother. His
name should have been gotten from my memory as readily as that of my
brother and his relation to me. But instead of this we have that play
of real persons and display of ignorance which is absurd on the telepathic
theory. Nor will it do to say that its powers united with secondary
personality were great enough to discover the facts and merely to simu
late this ignorance, as the same power should discover the danger to
which it is exposed in such an attempt at deception. The telepathic
infinity in this case runs into the finite and leaves itself without any
defence, as it becomes a tissue of contradictions. Notice the inter
locutions in the use of the pronoun "you." The only natural and
rational interpretation is the spiritistic theory, which has absolutely no
contradictions in it, but represents both the natural unity and consis
tency of the phenomena, as well as an explanation in terms of the
known laws of consciousness.
This remarkable passage is followed by some clear communications
from my father which terminate in a lapse into unconsciousness and a
confusion such as tend to follow any period of sustained communica
tion. This is indicated by the reference to the trance personalities
and by the expressed desire for me to wait until he returns. The
language is : " In a short time they tell me I will be able to recall
everything . . recall everything I ever did. . . You could be
. . my . . does not . , I will have to go for a moment, wait
for me." Then at his disappearance Rector takes up the time com
municating in regard to a little girl for the purpose of finding her
mother (p. 319). The incident has absolutely no reference to me, and
does not even pretend to have it. This claim would have been no
more inconsistent and irrelevant than the attempt in the first sitting
to connect a lady with me who had no relation to me at all. There
might even have been some excuse for palming off a little girl on me,
as my sister was a little girl when she died and her existence was a
matter of memory. The incident, therefore, whether true or false, is
not telepathic, either from my standpoint or from that of the trance
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 195
personality. It is precisely what should take place on the spiritistic
theory, the play of personality being perfectly natural at this juncture.
It is all the more interesting in connection with my father's admonition
to wait for him, as if the communicator feared that I might not wait
while he went away " to recover his breath," so to speak. The assump
tion that I might not remain is a natural one when we consider the
uniform difference between the conception of time as felt by communi
cators and that which the sitter knows. The reasons for this are only
open to conjecture and cannot be made any part of the explanation of
the phenomena. But the illusion on the part of communicator regard
ing my situation and freedom from the difficulties that he experiences
in attempting to communicate is inexcusable on the telepathic
hypothesis. That capacity should know its own conditions and my
exemption from perturbing circumstances, and be as careful to be right
as it is in the incidents by which it reproduces personal identity. A
discarnate spirit, unfamiliar as my father was with experiments of this
kind, or merely conscious that the difficulties in communication existed
on our side, though not tending to produce anything like asphyxiation,
might very well suppose, especially under syncope of any form, that I
might not wait for his return. But there is no excuse for telepathy to
palm off on me conditions and expectations that it should know very
well were not true.
The third sitting contains few instances of this dramatic play
which the reader cannot study sufficiently and intelligently for him
self. But two of them are interesting enough for remark.
The first of these is connected with my question to know the
trouble when my father passed out (p. 327). I had in mind the securing
of information in regard to the nature of the disease from which father
thought he suffered. He had thought it catarrh, and we knew it was
probaby cancer of the larynx. But the point of interest here is the
interpretation put on my question, which is adverse to what was in my
mind, and the peculiar emotional appreciation indicated when I
explained my use of the word " trouble." He naturally enough, but
in contradiction with telepathy of any sort, supposed that " trouble "
referred to some personal differences between us, and correctly indicated
his doubt about the existence of any such difficulties. Then on my
correction of the interpretation, there was a second contradiction with
telepathy in his assumption that I was asking for the events that
occurred in the moments of death, when I said that I meant " sick
ness," though his interpretation was again the proper one when we
consider the rational meaning of the temporal clause in my question.
Then, with this understanding of my desire, the attempt to narrate the
incidents of that supreme moment is accompanied by a most interesting
interlocution between my father and Rector with interjected remarks
o 2
196 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
to me also by Rector explanatory of actions on the " other side," of
which I could have no knowledge. First, Rector explains that father
has taken off the condition which he is trying to describe, apparently
asks me a question as to " what was meant by his eyes," and then says
to the communicator " speak plainly." The confusion that follows is
indicated by Rector's farther explanation of the situation and then a
statement of what the communicator's action is, saying : " He
places his hand over his . . heart . . beat," then by Rector's
reaching to touch Dr. Hodgson, as if in that way he could aid the
communicator, who now goes on with some clearness for a time, when
he disappears again, and Rector takes up the incident of the little
girl mentioned in the previous sitting (p. 330) just as the change
takes place to my brother as a communicator, and Rector forewarns me
of the fact. The inapplicability of telepathy to all this ought to be
self-evident from the statement of the facts, as it is the play of an
independent intelligence and memory relating to events already on
record in the previous sitting and pertinent to Dr. Hodgson, though
not matter of knowledge to him, and the reference immediately
changes to me in the announcement of my brother. The realism of
this is apparent.
The next illustration of this play is in connection with a
phenomenon which resembles ordinary automatism, and with a
recognition of the trance personality of some disturbance in the process
of communication. Immediately following a perfectly clear message
from my father, and wholly irrelevant to it, was written out the
question : "Do you hear her sing?" (p. 332). This was repeated in
response to a statement by Dr. Hodgson, " No, the words are not
clear, Rector." Then Rector said, after Dr. Hodgson's "No" to
the repeated question : " Friend, there is something and we will be
obliged to ask thee to move." I changed my position, and was at
once asked to return. I had alluded to my sister Annie a few
minutes before and I took the reference to singing to be to her.
But whether correct or not, the matter of interest is Rector's
discovery of the incoherence and irrelevancy of the message, which
was not conceived by me as necessarily such, as I knew the frequent
and sudden changes in the communications and the equally frequent
allusions to events, intelligible or unintelligible, on the " other side."
I recognised the irrelevancy of the question to the import of the
previous message, but was not confused as to its possible meaning
in reference to the previous allusion to my sister. Hence there is
no excuse on the telepathic hypothesis for this procedure, and similar
incoherences on other occasions did not prompt any such interruptions
on the part of the trance personality. We can admit telepathy only
on the supposition that it discovers my recognition of the confusion in
xLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 197
connection with father's message. But this would prove too much, for
the reason that there is not a single other interference like this when I
was far more confused as to the meaning of the message than I was
at this time, while the statement of Rector suggests that there was a
disturbance in the " machine" (Cf. p. 332). Moreover, telepathy would
involve the supposition that there was an influence upon the communi
cations from my supraliminal states for which there is not one iota
of evidence in this record, nor in any study and watching for this
effect which I made purposely throughout the sittings. We may
explain this automatism as we please, but it is not telepathic, though
any secondary personality that we may suppose could have successfully
interpreted the question as referring to actual singing on the part of
my sister, as often illustrated in pseudo-spiritism, instead of deliberately
indicating by its treatment of the incident that it was nothing of the
kind, but mere disturbance in the " machine."
In the last of the first series of sittings the first noticeable feature
of this dramatic play is the unusual appearance of Imperator and His
statement of the reason for preceding Rector. The necessity for
restoring the " light," as the medium is called, is a queer trick to be
played by a telepathic subject or percipient ! But immediately Rector
takes Imperator's place and the communications begin (p. 335). After
a few messages, Rector says, as if directing a person where to stand,
"Speak clearly, sir. Come over here." The communicator answers,
" Yes," as if indicating the intention to obey, and then accosts Dr.
Hodgson with the question : " Are you with James 1 " On Dr.
Hodgson's affirmative reply, my father responds with an evident and
intelligent allusion to the understanding that he was to communicate
with Dr. Hodgson in my absence. He said : " Well, will you help
me to return later if I wish to return 1 If so, I will try and free my
mind now." On Dr. Hodgson's favourable answer, he went on :
" Well, I will not feel troubled then, because I have no further talk
with him now," etc. The appreciation of the situation is perfect here.
It represents the consciousness of the fact that this is the last chance,
for the present at least, of a personal interview, and his satisfaction
with the promise to continue the attempt to prove his identity. This
and the direction of Rector where to stand are realism and are not
telepathic, no matter how we endeavour to explain them.
The messages then continue smoothly for a moment when the
strange colloquy takes place, explaining that the communicator speaks
too fast, and indicating also that my father had said all he wished.
Rector says in the midst of a communication : " He speaks too
rapidly, fearing he may forget something," and there follows the
broken sentence, " . . had said all I wished," as if indicating to
Rector the latter's misunderstanding of the situation, while in fact
198 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
showing his consciousness of some disturbance and failure to
appreciate the situation as Rector explained it to us. This is
a perfectly intelligible situation, exhibiting all the independent
intelligence that any one can imagine and without a trace of excuse
from telepathy.
The next piece of dramatic playing is found in the communication
I made to my father (p. 339). I had kept him sending messages to me
without reciprocating, as I was avoiding every form of suggestion.
But I here resolved to reveal myself, and at the same time try to
elicit some evidences of his identity as connected with his religious life.
I wrote out a long passage to be read to the hand and in it explained
why I had not asked many questions. But before reading it, Dr.
Hodgson explained to Rector what I wished to do. Rector wrote out
in response that the letter would have to be repeated for the reason
that my father could get the statements only in fragments. This was
understood, and I began when the permission was given. The passage
in which I stated the reason for this work and summarised our long
correspondence, after my apostasy from orthodoxy, was designed to
call out some evidence of his identity in the direction that was the most
important aspect of his life. His reply to the first part of the
communication was correctly appreciative and representative of an
actual fact in our conversation on this subject. But when I had
read the passage alluding to what I had always told him, Rector,
catching the spirit of it, at once stopped listening and wrote,
"Perfectly. Yes. That is surely James." The dramatic feature of
this can be understood only in connection with four facts. (1) The
appreciation of the sentiment by Rector ; (2) The recollection of
what Rector said about the necessity of repeating the communication ;
(3) The fact that the reply of father is made to Rector and not to
ine, indicating that he understood it and recognised in it exactly what
he knew of me in our correspondence ; (4) The implied uncertainty
as to my identity until the present moment, which ought not to have
occurred on the hypothesis of telepathy. The representation is that
of a scene on the " other side," and not of events acquired from my
memory. Rector's action is that of an intelligence that fears, after
reminding us of the necessity of repeating the message to my father,
that its importance will not be appreciated for lack of getting it, and
we can imagine that he asks, as it were, "Do you hear that?" and
gets the answer which he writes down, though it is not directly
addressed to me.
The remaining features of this sitting explain themselves to the
reader and do not require analysis. Their intelligent appreciation of
the situation, created partly by my communication and partly by the
fact that it was the last sitting I was to have at that time, can be
XLL] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 199
perceived without discussing it. What it implies about the difficulties
of telepathy is apparent, whatever else we may have to entertain to
explain it.
The next five sittings, which were conducted for me by Dr.
Hodgson while I remained in New York, show this dramatic play of
personality in a peculiar and pertinent form. The understanding at
the beginning of my sitting on 26th of December (1898) was that Dr.
Hodgson should receive communications for me. The object was to
shut out direct thought-transference. The first part of the sitting
was taken up, as usual, with the business part of the affair with the
trance personalities, in which we can study this dramatic play with
great interest for its absolute exclusion of telepathy and the repre
sentation of independent intelligence. But after completing arrange
ments for future sittings, Rector remarks that if Dr. Hodgson has
nothing further to ask he will bring my father to communicate, and
there at once begins a curious feature of the sitting and an exceed
ingly interesting aspect of the dramatic play. Dr. Hodgson expresses
his readiness, and the drama begins. Rector holds the hand out in
space, pointing to the communicator, apparently conversing with him,
and then writes; "No, he is not .... but it is his friend
. . . very well. No, not James, but Hodgson. Yes. Come."
Dr. Hodgson gets the package, whose purpose has been explained,
but which ostensibly is intended to influence the "holding of the
spirit " and its attention, and Rector writes : " Give it me, friend."
The delay on Dr. Hodgson's part is filled in by Rector's monition
to the communicator : " Be patient, kindly," and after Dr. Hodgson
has placed the spectacle case on the table, my father indicates the
proper appreciation of the situation and says : " Yes, friend, I am
pleased to meet you, I wish to speak to James, but I understand he is
not here, but sends you in his place. Am I right J" Dr. Hodgson
replies in the affirmative, and the communications begin (p. 370).
The interesting feature that follows generally is the use of the pro
noun referring to me, which is in the third person, and assumes that I
was not present. The whole play is realistic, and it is absurd to suppose
it telepathic, as the very opposite of what my father assumes is the fact
in Dr. Hodgson's mind. Rector knows the correct situation, but it is
superfluous to play a merely dramatic part here when the communica
tions are to represent facts that cannot by any means be obtained from
Dr. Hodgson's mind, and if they are to be secured from my mind in
New York, the colloquy and explanation by Rector is absurd, and if
assumed to be a conscious or unconscious effort by him to deceive, the
fact contradicts his whole character ever since he appeared with
Imperator in charge of Mrs. Piper. The attitude of u>y father appears
200 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
more puzzling, as it would naturally be supposed that he would
remember the arrangements made and also be able to recognise Dr.
Hodgson again, if his earlier statement that he could see my spirit in
the body had any meaning whatever for recognition. But this
difficulty is explained after all in the statement a little later that he
was a little distance from Dr. Hodgson, but hoped to come nearer
soon (p. 372). Hence in spite of its apparent difficulties the play
becomes consistent enough, even if not altogether intelligible. But it
is clearly not amenable to telepathy from Dr. Hodgson's mind, as there
is a distinct reference to me at various times in the third person,
involving the implication that the communicator was presenting the
facts to another person than to me. There are times, however, during
some of the five sittings when the communicator slips into speaking to
the sitter, Dr. Hodgson, in the second person as if talking to me,
which is still more absurd on the telepathic hypothesis, as the
secondary personality must know better than to mistake Dr. Hodgson
for me. Moreover the play is more natural and explicable on the
spirit theory than any other, as that of secondary personality and
telepathy cannot safely indicate in one breath its complete knowledge
of the arrangements for the present situation and in the next imper
sonate an ignorance of them that destroys its own pretensions.
There is nothing farther in this first of the five sittings by Dr.
Hodgson to be especially remarked except the interesting colloquy
between Dr. Hodgson and my father in the attempt of the former to
explain to him just what I wanted and what was necessary to prove
his identity. All this explains itself to the reader and does not require
analysis. But the main fact of interest to be remarked in con
nection with this explanation is the persistency with which my father
in all subsequent sittings sticks to the understanding of the problem
which this explanation gives him. Up to the present one he was
less careful to limit himself to incidents in his life, but showed a
tendency to make non-evidential remarks, and the incidents were such
as merely his own judgment would select without as clear a view of the
problem before him as the explanation made it. His whole attitude
toward Dr. Hodgson is perfectly appreciative of his task, and once
later he alludes to it in terms that unmistakably indicate his memory
of the fact (p. 460). One matter of interest in it is the promise of
Rector to explain the whole case to father in detail, an incident that
helps to sustain the dramatic character of the affair. After the
explanation by Dr. Hodgson begins there is very little of the sitting
that partakes of the nature of evidential communication, but it shows
the completely lite-a-tete nature of the conversation between the two
parties in the drama, and while its extension beyond telepathy goes
without mention, the play of independent intelligence is as real as life
xLi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 201
and would never be suspected for anything else but for the fact that
the evidence for personal identity is so difficult to obtain in the face of
what we know of secondary personality, which often does so much to
simulate spiritism, though it has not yet reproduced such phenomena
as we have in the Piper case.
In the second sitting of this series this dramatic play takes
another form than is usual in this record (pp. 375-377). It
represents the appearance of a third trance personality, familiar to
other sitters, but having no such specialised functions in my sittings
as Imperator and Rector, at least in the work as it appears to
us. This new trance personality calls himself Doctor. All three
trance personalities appear in the preliminaries to the communications
from my father. Imperator writes first and gives a remarkable prayer
and explains his entrance on that occasion. Rector then appears only
to greet Dr. Hodgson for a brief period, bids farewell, and Rector at
once announces his own return and the communications begin. The
consistency and realistic aspects of these remarkable passages can be
seen by the reader without comment. But there is one point of
interest that must have attention called to it, so that we shall observe
the pertinence of the main characteristic of this dramatic play to the
nature of the communications that follow.
Imperator states that his object is to " restore-the light." Rector
examines the situation and says things are " infinitely better,"
Doctor tries the " machine," and Rector intimates that they wish to
have " Mr. Hyslop," my father, " come closer." Presently Imperator
sends through Rector that " it will be impossible for Him to answer
for Mr. W. this .day, as it will necessitate our using too much light for
him, and we must give it for this kind gentleman, viz., Mr. Hyslop."
Here is a series of statements and ideas that represent an organic
unity of purpose and co-operation in spite of the changes of per
sonality, and the study of the results of the sitting shows a vast
improvement over the first and second sittings. (Cf. Statistical
Summary, p. 119). The whole play when examined in its essential
feature lying below the surface of the record shows this intelligent unity,
and it goes without saying that it is not telepathic, but a representation
of events and conditions in a transcendental world beyond experience.
We may treat it as we please, but it is not the reading of any human
memories relevant to the immediate problem before Dr. Hodgson.
The dramatic play in the communications with my father have the
usual characteristics, with some modifications, or points of special
interest. The first noticeable fact is the impression he has that I am
present. He begins addressing me, saying, " Good morning, James,"
(p. 377), and goes on using the second person for some time. He has
forgotten that he is communicating with Dr. Hodgson. But the
202 [PAET
/. H. Hyslop, PhD.
dramatic play is interesting. When he mentions the mark near hia
ear which he expected me to recall, Rector interrupts him with the
request : " Tell me, friend, that I may show it to him." There was
evidently some special effort required to meet Rector's request, as the
record shows, for in the attempt some interlocution has to go on
between Dr. Hodgson and Rector, when all at once Rector stops
Dr. Hodgson's message and writes, " He is saying something. Wait
until I hear it clearly." There immediately follows a confused message
regarding a pen and a paper cutter, with a most interesting exhibi
tion of the difficulties involved in the communication. Rector was
not sure that he got it rightly. Presently father had to say " Let
me go a minute and return. I am very blind and begin to feel
strange." Rector then takes up the interval of a minute or so with a
statement of his good opinion of father, and promises a very successful
communicator in time. Father returns and discovers for the first time
in this sitting that he is not communicating to me at all. He says :
"Here I am. Yes, I see, you are not really James, but his friend.
Glad I am to know you." From this point, being clearer, he speaks as
if telling his incidents to an intermediary for me. The rest of the
dramatic play in the sitting explains itself, and simply repeats such
characteristics' as I have indicated, namely, the intromission of ques
tions and explanations into the process of communication. But one
incident is worthy of attention because of its length and irrelevance
to any telepathic hypothesis. Dr. Hodgson had prepared to read
one of my questions and did not know that my father had left the
" machine," when Rector interrupted him with a communication about
Mrs. M., one of the earlier sitters. The matter in this colloquy has no
reference to the issue with my father, but intelligently adjusts itself
to the interval of his departure from the " light" for a respite.
The intromission of irrelevant matter into a message about
Mrs. M. expressed in the automatism : " Yes, it contains my cutter "
(p. 380), and involving interruptions, explanations, cautions, etc.,
and the play of distinct personalities, has a most interesting
analogy in an experience reported by Miss X. (Proceedings, Vol.
VIII., p. 494). Miss X. had only a few minutes before parted from
a friend who had been talking to her about psychical research.
She picked up a shell and holding it to her ear heard in the form of
auditory hallucinations the conversation of the few minutes before in
the apparent voice of her friend, and intromitted into it the expression,
" Are you a vegetarian then 1 " She immediately wrote to her friend
telling him the circumstances, and asked him if he was respon
sible for this irrelevancy. His reply showed that he had met a friend
some minutes after he left her who told him he was dining at a
certain restaurant, and Miss X.'s friend at once asked him if he was a
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 203
vegetarian. This remark coincided with the intromission into her
hallucinations of the very sentence the gentleman had used. Now this
instance is not spiritistic in its contents, but in spite of this fact it
unequivocally favours independent personalities for the different parts
of the whole, and affords no relief for telepathy in so far as that would
enable us to dispense with real distinction of personalities. In this
case before us the intromitted message is traceable to a foreign and
objective source, and represents two personalities instead of one only.
That is to say, in spite of the fact that the intromission, which
indicated its irrevelancy at once, was in the same form as the purely
subjective experience of Miss X., yet it had as a verifiable fact a
personal origin in another subject, and indicates two persons instead of
one. To have found no objective source for it would have left the
incident at the mercy of the explanation of secondary personality.
But as it is, we have a distinct illustration of distinct personalities in a
message which might have been interpreted as the product of Miss
X.'s brain, and consequently an example of what we may be entitled to
infer in the Piper case, especially as the dramatic play is so emphati
cally that of independent intelligence.
" It is perhaps hardly a feature of the dramatic play to note in the
third sitting by Dr. Hodgson that there is a singular use of both the
second and third persons in the communications to me, but the
incident is so closely connected with that use that it may be
mentioned as throwing light on the whole affair. Father's messages
begin with a clear conception of the situation, as representing Dr.
Hodgson in the place of myself. He asks pertinently how I am, and
whether Dr. Hodgson has really seen me or only heard from me
" through what we used to call letters " (p. 385). A little later when
he asks in the second person : " Can you recall anything about my
beliefs in God?" he speaks as if he thought he was directly addressing
me. But as he knew from the letter that Dr. Hodgson was reading that
I wanted some answer from him, it is perfectly rational to suppose
that he was still clear as to the situation, but was answering with the
understanding that he was dictating communications to me. There is
a most interesting confirmation of this supposition a little later, and
just after the allusion to the skull cap (p. 387), when he says, " Answer
this for me, James, when you come again," recognising, in spite of the
second person, that I was not present. This interesting incident must
make us cautious about raising objections on the ground of the
mistakes in the identity of the sitter. But immediately Rector inter
jects a message which purports to be what he knows my father
is trying to communicate, and it represents a pertinent fact, and
then as if suddenly called to get another message exclaims :
" Wait . . . what is he talking about ? " and then speaks to Dr.
204 [PAKT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Hodgson for something to " hold the spirit." This, of course, has its
vraisemblance to the tricks of ordinary mediums, but as it represents
the real dramatic play so well, I can refer to it without presuming as
to its origin. But there is not much in this sitting that represents the
dramatic play in any form not intelligible to every reader. Nor is there
anything in the fourth sitting that demands special comment after what
has been explained concerning the general action of the play.
In the fifth sitting, however, the incident of the canes indicates
some features of the dramatic play that should be mentioned,
(p. 397). In the attempt to communicate something about a cane,
whose identity I did not know or recognise until I made my investiga
tions in the West, Rector interrupted the writing by movements of
Mrs. Piper's hand, which I found to be a probable attempt to describe
the uses to which the cane had been put. The details need not be
repeated here, but Rector apparently does not understand the mimic
actions on the " other side." Assuming that the action really repre
sents references to my father's various habits in the use of the cane,
we can see how absurd it is to suppose telepathy of any kind when the
"control" fails to get the right idea, though he can describe what
he sees and conveys nevertheless the right idea of the communicator.
The representation is that of independent personalities, and shows
how one of them communicates an evidential truth which he does not
understand himself. That is not telepathy, as all the other communica
tions are consistent with the supposition that the personality writing
them has also the correct ideas of them, but also is able to interpret
them when not otherwise clear. In the present case, however, the
trance personality cannot obtain a simple fact by telepathy, and cannot
interpret rightly the movements in an attempt to describe an event
perfectly intelligible to me and to all who know how that particular
cane was used. It requires, possibly, the supposition of some kind of a
" body " to make the dramatic features of this incident perfectly clear
to our imagination, but as that is a supposition which I cannot
seriously entertain here because of our limitations in making any
statements about a transcendental world intelligible (Cf. p. 290), I
can only represent the action as it is given, and assuming that it is
realistic enough to suggest a spiritistic origin, lay the stress upon its
tallying with the facts as I found them to be in my investigation.
The main point is to see that neither telepathy nor secondary
personality is compatible with the incident. There is a finitude about
Rector's powers here that is not consistent with their range at other
times on any other hypothesis than the spiritistic.
In my last eight sittings this dramatic play is usually not so dis
tinctive a feature of the communications, except as it is represented
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 205
in the change from one communicator to another. The usual alter
cations, colloquies, remarks, explanations, etc., take place between the
communicators and the amanuensis—Rector or other writer, as the
case may be—-on the one hand, and between the amanuensis and the
sitter on the other. If this fact is remembered it will not be necessary,
in urging the argument for the spiritistic theory on the ground of
this dramatic play, to treat it at length in these last sittings. I shall
therefore notice only those exceptional instances of it that the general
reader would not be able to observe so easily as I can, owing to my
familiarity with the facts that make the communications so pertinent
and evidential.
The first of these instances is of a type not found to any extent in
the previous series of sittings. It is the employment of a substitute
for the communicating. This occurs several times in this series.
Occasionally father has given a message that was evidently intended
to do what another had failed to effect. Once my brother Charles
(p. 455) communicates for father, and once my sister Annie (p. 451)
communicates for my cousin Robert McClellan, as the incidents in
each case indicate. Sometimes, too, the communicator represents the
incident that he is telling as having been mentioned to him on the
" other side." All this represents a play of personality that supposes
an entirely new range for telepathy, if it is to be assumed at all.
The first instance is by father when he asks if I " remember a little
bridge we used to cross in going to Church," and on my assent he adds
that " mother just called my attention to it " (p. 435). This brings in a
pertinent incident that is put into the mouth of another person on the
"other side "for whom it was more natural to mention this bridge than
it was for my father, and it was not associated in my mind with either
one of them more than with the other. This feature is illustrated again
by some statements by my brother Charles (p. 440) while my father
rests a moment. He alluded to my half-sister and to some things that
he says father asked him to say, and remarks that " his voice troubles
him a little when trying to speak," a strange statement from the
ordinary point of view, but consistent with what I knew of his illness,
as father had been unable to speak above a whisper for three years
before his death. His conditional clause, " If you are still in the
body, James," has strange implications in it, and all that is said here
is not telepathy, especially this last quoted statement, because telepathy
must be supposed to know positively that I am in the body. My
sister Annie indicates a similar fact when, in communicating for my
cousin, she speaks of my father knowing the "Lucy " mentioned better
than she does (p. 452). A still clearer instance of the same is brother
Charles's reference to the accident to the chimney, about which he never
knew, and to the fact that he " heard father talking about it to mother
20G [PABT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
some time ago " (p. 455). But the interesting part of the play is the
innocent and yet fortunate recognition of the communicator that his
acquisition of the facts was from the " other side." If he had
mentioned them as personal recollections the circumstances would have
had to be set down as false, but, fortunately for the spiritistic view,
he rightly refers them to the very persons that would be supposed to
know, and, stranger still, he states that it was father that spoke to
mother about the accident. Mother died fifteen years before the
accident, and father was the only one that could tell her about the
fact, though she knew well enough the existence of the chimney. The
difficulty of telepathy in such a case ought to be apparent. The
whole conception which the incidents represent is that of action in a
transcendental world arranging for the communication of facts more
or less without reference to the person whose knowledge and experience
they were, but with a distinct reference, nevertheless, to the identity
of the proper parties. The organic unity which the facts obtain is
that of independent intelligences recalling and collecting their own
memories pertinently to the one object of personal identity, and
exhibiting none of the characteristics of telepathy as we know it
experimentally.
I shall give in full one of the best instances of this transcendental
play and references that show how more than one personality is
concerned. It is again the work of my brother Charles, and repre
sents an exceedingly complex psychological situation (p. 462).
He first gives his name and then alludes to his having been sent
by Imperator to take father's place. Evidently, however, his entrance
had been preceded by a question by Rector to know what my brother
said, as the question, " What is it 1 " appears and the phrase, " My
step-sister " comes as an answer, when as an explanation to Rector,
who apparently did not know the situation for the time, he gave his
name and stated on whose authority he came. At once, on being
accepted as persona grata, he says, giving the name of his step-sister,
whom he in fact never knew, " Hettie I did not remember." He
then corrects this to half-sister and explains his error, with an
allusion to the assistance he is getting from Imperator. He then
reports a statement from father, explaining why he has come to
communicate, a remark which at once requires us not to attribute
the facts to the wrong personality. I am then asked if I remember
my uncle James McClellan and " Frank . . . speak ....
Hyslop," the last phrase representing a tendency to fail in completing
the name of my brother, which is effected by Rector's prodding
demand that he speak (Cf. Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 464, Phinuit's
order : " Don't go to sleep "). My brother then remarks correctly
that my brother Frank is still living and says that "father spoke to
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 207
me of him a few minutes ago." The remark calls into notice the fact
that father had a special interest in alluding to this brother, as he was
an invalid at the time of father's death, and my brother Charles never
knew him. Immediately Charles explains father's difficulties in
communicating, and alludes to " Dr. Pierce " as a friend of my " uncle
Clarke " and to the fact that he is still living, thus again introducing
another personality into the play without appropriating the facts
to himself. The allusions to father's war stories and to his injured
leg are similar incidents. They refer to facts that Charles never
knew personally. This continues through a number of instances,
until the name of my sister Lida is given and the reference
is made to father as having greater knowledge of her than himself,
as was true. He also said that father " often speaks of Lucy,"
but the effort to complete this name failed, while the dramatic
play was heightened by the introduction of my sister Annie, also on
the " other side," to assist him. But both failed, and Rector wrote in
explanation a most remarkable sentence, because it shows beyond
question that he was both unable to read my mind and did not under
stand whom my brother was trying to name. He said : " I got it all
but .the Hyslop." It was Lucy McClellan that my brother was trying
to name, and Rector evidently thought it was "Lucy Hyslop," no such
person existing, and simply inferred from the identity of my brother
that he was endeavouring to give the name of another Hyslop. Hence
he was wholly wrong, as neither I nor my brother would naturally be in
the circumstances. This mistake on the part of Rector was corrected
soon- afterwards, as Mrs. Piper was coming out of the trance, when she
uttered the name of " Lucy McClellan," as if the error had been
discovered on the "other side," and a special effort made to correct it.
The difficulties of telepathy in this incident and in the compound play of
personality on the "other side," combined with features of the same
play with this side, ought to be self-evident.
The next and last instance of dramatic playing that I shall discuss
at length is the most interesting and remarkable in the record. It grew
out of the attempt to give the name of my stepmother correctly in
response to my request for it. The incident represents the difficulties
of communication more clearly than anything else in the experiments,
and it is characterised by calling in G. P. to help out with what Rector
could not accomplish.
As previous notes intimate (Cf. pp. 69, 342, 365) I was in doubt
about what was meant by the name "Nannie" in connection with
incidents that really pertained to my stepmother, who was always
called Maggie by my father. Hence I resolved to clear up this
question without asking directly for the name. Dr. Hodgson knew
my object, as we had talked it over before going to the sitting, but
208 J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D. [part
I did not tell him the details of my plan. On father's appearance
(p. 478) I assured myself of his presence, and at once asked him,
"Who made that cap you referred to so often?" The answer
" mother " was equivocal, and after my further interrogation to
know " which mother," as soon as he understood that 1 meant my
stepmother, " my mother on this side," he at once answered,
" Oh, I see what you mean. Your mother is with me, but Hettie's
mother is in the body." This perfectly satisfied me as to who was
meant by the " Nannie " referred to so often in connection with the
cap, and I at once asked about a trip with her out West, intending to
get incidents which would still more clearly identify her without getting
the exact name. But owing to my ignorance of the " Cooper " incident,
and to my having wholly forgotten the fact that on the return from
that trip my father visited me in Chicago, I had not identified the
journey, but supposed that he was referring to the trip in 1861 with
my mother and myself. But as a consequence some confusion arose,
and after my saying that I could not recall any previous mention
of the trip which father asserted he had told about before, there was a
determined effort to give my stepmother's name, and some interlocution
goes on between those on the " other side " until finally father asks if I
referred to the time when we met with the accident (Cf. p. 372), and
on my saying that I did not mean this, he at once indicates by his
next statement that he understands to what I refer, and goes on to
say with astonishing correctness and pertinence : " Well I am sure I
have told you of this before. Think over, and you will recall it. I am
not sure I mentioned her, but I had it on my mind when I referred to
the trip I took just before going out West, do you not recall it 1 "
I was perfectly satisfied with this statement, as it made the case
perfectly clear in its reference to the trip "just before going out West,"
and I was on the point of indicating my satisfaction when Dr.
Hodgson, who did not know the facts as I did and could not know
why I was satisfied, interrupted me and called for G. P., to whom he
explained that there was some confusion in my father's mind about
the name of my stepmother. G. P. appreciated the situation and
said " Well, I will assist him. Do not hurry." Father then began an
explanation of what he had been trying to do and how he became
confused by my question, all of which was throwing light on the
identity of my stepmother without giving her name, though there was
evidently one attempt to get it. I was purposely avoiding interrup
tions, experience having convinced me that, under the circumstances,
the communications should take their own course. But Dr. Hodgson
still thought I was not satisfied with the situation and that the
confusion was continuing. Consequently he began to indicate to
G. P. that there was still some confusion, when I explained that I
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 209
understood the communications perfectly, and they continued until
father left the " light " for a respite. My sister Annie took his place
and spoke for a few minutes announcing his return at the end.
Father was still confused regarding what I wanted, and began to speak
of the trip to which both of us had referred, trying apparently to
let my stepmother's name slip in with his statements. This appeared
as "HAT . . HAR . . No." I shook my head at this,
because it was not clear. Father then expressed his desire to speak of
other things and asked me to tell him exactly what I wanted. Dr.
Hodgson then spoke to " Rector or George " to explain what I wished,
saying that there was " a locus of confusion with reference to James'
stepmother still," and Rector replies " Not so, it hath nothing
to do with mothers of any sort, but it hath to do with trips, which is
confusing him somewhat, and I would not worry him about trips
but let him answer when he returns again." Dr. Hodgson then
explained our difficulty more carefully, saying that the name of my
" mother in the body had never yet been rightly given," and Rector
replied with the question : " Has it been asked for ? " Dr. Hodgson
then explained just what mistake had been made regarding it, saying
that we had gotten it as " Nannie." Rector replied, with a perfectly
Appreciative and correct answer in the statement of facts (p. 483),
but Dr. Hodgson, not knowing or understanding the pertinence of
Rector's explanation, answered : " No, Rector." This was calculated
to make confusion worse confounded, and Rector gave up with the
message "I cannot understand it "and yielded to G. P., who, after
Dr. Hodgson explained to him what I wanted, said, apparently with
some sharpness : " Well, why do you not come out and say, ' Give me my
stepmother's name,' and not confuse him about anything except what
you really want ? " Dr. Hodgson and I explained that the name had
been directly asked for, and he replied somewhat humorously : " Has
it, very well, if she has a name you shall have it, G. P., understand ? "
Dr. Hodgson then repeated his allusion to "some peculiar difficulty
about getting her name," and G. P. replied : " I do not think so, H. ;
but I do think he would refer to it in his own way if let alone. I
know how you confused me, by Jove, and I don't want any more of it.
I am going to help him to tell all he knows from A to Z. No doubt
about it H., no one could be more desirous of doing so than he is. Is
that clear to you 1 " My father then begins a long and interesting
message, at the close of which G. P. returns (p. 486) and says : " I
will speak for a moment and say I do not see any reason for anxiety
about Margaret." Dr. Hodgson asked, "Who says this?" and
received the reply : " George." I then asked him to tell the rest, and
the reply, somewhat evading or misunderstanding my question, was :
" He said, I suppose I might as well tell you first as last and have
r
210 [part
//. Hyslop, Ph.D.
done with it, or James may think I do not really know. Go tell him
this for me. You see I got it out of him for you, H., but you no
need to get nervous about it, old chap."
Now when we sum up all this we find that at a crucial point
where Rector was right and Dr. Hodgson was wrong, Rector gives up,
baffled in the attempt to understand the situation, and another
personality, G. P., appears for the purpose of clearing matters, and
exhibits a half humorous and impatient temper while scolding Dr.
Hodgson, a temper as different from Rector's long-suffering and
patience as any trait could be, and then with the persiflage of a
man of the world goes about his task of unravelling the confusion.
He succeeds and reports with ease the name that I wanted,
intimating at the same time and indirectly the difficulties that the
communicator has in telling his incidents ! The incompatibility of
all this with either secondary personality or telepathy ought to be
apparent without comment. Assuming telepathy we have the strange
situation that, after its marvellous achievements in both incidents and
proper names, even in this very passage, telepathy is unable to get the
name Margaret by any effort, and yet does get it with ease when G. P.
is called in ! We are then laughed at for making so much fuss about
it ! To us all the fuss appeared on the " other side " ! But what is
the use on the telepathic hypothesis of all the supererogatory efforts
here made in the complicated machinery of several personalities to
get what is at last gotten with the utmost ease, and we are scolded
and ridiculed for our " much ado about nothing " !
As the sitting comes to a close a feature of this dramatic play
appears and adds importance to the remarks just made. G. P. says to
Dr. Hodgson : " I am glad to meet your friend even though you fail
to say anything about him. I am George Pelham, and glad to see
you." I replied : "1 am glad to meet you, especially as I know your
brother in Columbia University." The quick response came : " Yes,
Charles." " That is right," I said, and the appreciative reply came :
"Good. I'll see you again. Au/tviedersehen."
Now on the telepathic theory all the previous play is an acutely
arranged subliminal fraud, at the same time that the assumed ingenuity
betrays limitations inconsistent with its pretended powers, and their
exposure is made easier than ever. There were opportunities during
the previous fourteen sittings to ascertain that I was acquainted
with this brother Charles, and to use what information I knew of
G. P. himself to spontaneously refer to this brother by simply asking
me, in ostentatious ignorance of the real situation, whether I knew
this brother, and then to send pertinent messages to him drawn
from my subliminal. But not a trace of this is to be found. On the
contrary, G. P., in spite of the earlier allusion to my connection with a
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 211
college and lectures, spontaneously, and in spite of the marvellous
memory that has to be attributed to the subliminal on the telepathic
hypothesis (pp. 160-170), here represents truthfully his entire
ignorance of me, and in the natural surprise of a real person at once
mentions his brother and shows the appropriate emotional interest in
the situation. But telepathy could not get the name " Margaret "
without terrible confusion, though it could get the name Charles with
out the slightest difficulty, and in spite of the fact that my mental
condition with reference to both names was the same with the excep
tion that the former was more distinct in memory ! The internal
contradictions of the telepathic theory were never more evident than
here. When telepathy, assuming it, exhibits the facility of its opera
tions in so marvellous a manner, there is no need of confusion, and
of actions that at once discredit its pretensions and threaten with denial
the belief which it aims to foster ! But if we look at this realistic
play of personality as just what it purports to be we discover its entire
unity and self consistency. The operation of finite agencies under
difficulties that must be admitted in any case is far more intelligible
and consistent than this infinite complexity of all sorts of powers, large
and small, and immeasurably contradictory, to say nothing of its
incompatability with all that we know of secondary personality in its
best estate.
I may, at this point, very effectively gather up several other
interferences of G. P. which I have not discussed collectively in their
bearing upon this dramatic play. They show a peculiarly unique
feature of these communications, indicating very clearly just what we
are entitled to expect on the spiritistic theory, and not on any other.
In these sudden interruptions G. P. appears as an intermediary to
interpret, correct, or transmit something which Rector, the amanuensis
does not " hear," and by signing his own initials to the message, or
statement, he reveals just the evidence of another personality and
independent intelligence which would be so natural on the spiritistic
theory, but not to be expected a priori either of the telepathic
hypothesis or of its combination with secondary personality.
After my first sitting, on December 23rd, 1898, there is no definite
hint of G. P.'s presence at my sittings until that of May 30th, 1899.
The statement of my father on May 29th (p. 419), "I am speaking
to some other man who is speaking for me," might possibly imply
the presence of G. P., though possibly Elector was intended. But on
May 30th my cousin, Robert McClellan, gives G. P.'s full name—■
George Pelham (pseudonym)—and remarks that he is assisting. A
moment later, right in the midst of a communication from my cousin,
whose messages were badly confused, G. P. suddenly interjects the
p 2
212 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
statement : " Look out H., I am here. G. P. + [Imperator] sent me
some moments ago " (p. 428). Then again a few minutes later, while
Rector was struggling to get the name McClellan clear and could
only get McAllen, G. P. shouts out, so to speak, as an intermediary
to aid Rector, " Sounds like McLellen. G. P.," and my cousin
acknowledges its correctness by saying : " Yes, I am he."
At the close of my cousin's communications G. P.'s presence and
influence are evident in the sentence declaring : " The machine is not
right, H.," which Dr. Hodgson took to refer to the need of a fresh
pencil, and he accordingly gave one. This occurs in the interval between
the departure of my cousin and the arrival of my father (p. 429).
In the same sitting (p. 434) the name of my half-sister was given.
There was considerable trouble with it on Rector's part, as he
stumbled about between the false attempts "Abbie," "Addie," and
" Nabbie," until G. P. suddenly interrupted him with the statement :
" Yes, but let me hear it, and I will get it. G. P." He then gave
the name "Hattie" and followed it with "Harriet," when I acknow
ledged that it was nearly correct, alluding to the " Hattie " in
particular, but without saying so. I asked that it be spelled out
Then immediately was written : " Hettie. G. P.," spelling it in
capitals, and I expressed satisfaction with it, recognising that this
was the proper nickname for Henrietta, which she was always called.
But as if still uncertain about it, the fact being that father never
called her " Hettie," G. P. continued : " Ett [?] Hettie. G. P."
The form of this message is precisely like the previous one, " Sounds
like McLellen, G. P.," and the use of " Hettie " for Henrietta is
precisely like the communication of Tillie for Matilda in 1892, probably
by this same G. P. (See Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 375).
In the sitting for May 31st (p. 440), just as Rector remarked that
it was my father who was communicating, explaining that " he seems
a little dazed," G. P. suddenly interrupted with the statement : " I
am coming, H, to help out. How are you ? " and made some brief
communications with reference to two of his friends, both of them
unknown to me. Dr. Hodgson knew one of them intimately and the
other only by name. Then G. P. follows this with the announcement
that my father and mother are present to communicate, but a singular
verb is used instead of the plural. The plural, however, is immediately
added and followed by the statement : " If I fail grammatically, H.,
it is owing to the machine. Hear. Cannot always make it work
just right." The communications from my father then proceed without
farther interruption (p. 441).
Again in the sitting of June 6th, before my father appeared, and
just as Rector had explained how we should ask certain questions
when my father should announce himself, G. P. suddenly interjected
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 213
a greeting and some questions directed to Dr. Hodgson, the colloquy
being as follows :—
" H. how are you ? I have just been called upon to lend a
helping hand. You see I am not wholly isolated from you. (R. H. :
Good, George, were you here last time ?) For a few moments. I
helped a man named Charles, but I did not get a chance to say How
de do, H. ? (R. H. : All right, George.) I am going after the elderly
gentleman. Look out for me. (R. H. : We will.) Got those theories
all straightened out yet, H ? (R. H. : Pretty fairly.) I am going.
Aufwiedersehen. G. P." (p. 468).
My father then appeared with the appropriate message, "I am
coming, James," and we began carrying out our plan of asking for
incidents that were unknown to me. But it is apparent to the
simplest observer that G. P.'s interruption and conversation with Dr.
Hodgson had no relevancy either to me personally or to the general
purpose of the situation.
Another sudden interruption, signed by G. P.'s initials, occurred
on June 7th. It was in the midst of the confusion incident to the
attempt at giving the name of my stepmother. My father, evidently
appreciating his difficulty in the situation, remarked : " I feel the
necessity of speaking as clearly as possible, James, and I will do my
best to do so." G. P., probably fearing that my father was not yet clear
enough to do what he wished, suddenly cautioned him with the
advice : " Wait a bit," and as Dr. Hodgson interpreted the word
"wait" as "said," G. P. repeated the phrase, signing it: "Wait a
bit. G. P." Father then proceeded with his explanation of the
mistake about my stepmother, all the parties on the " other side "
assuming, apparently, that he was clear enough for the task (p. 481).
In all these interpositions of G. P. the marks of an independent
intelligence are very indicative. There is in them nothing like the
character of either the inexperienced communicator or Rector, the
amanuensis, nor is there any definite resemblance to either secondary
personality in general or to intercommunication between two per
sonalities in the same subject. They are the interference of a spectator
and helper on his own responsibility, when he sees that he can effect a
clear message that is misunderstood or not clearly obtained by Rector.
Such dramatic play, involving the personal equation of the real indi
vidual G. P. as known when living, and here kept distinct from that
of Rector and others, is a characteristic not easily explicable on any
but the spiritistic theory, especially when it includes the transmission
of evidential data.
The last sitting is a drama intelligible enough to be understood
without comment, though it is between Rector and myself, and my
father and myself. The play of personality is not of the same sort
214 [part
H. Eyslop, Ph.D.
as that which I have analysed so carefully, but it is the action of an
independent intelligence under circumstances involving such prompt
answers to my statements and questions as the reader will find it
difficult to explain on any other hypothesis than the spiritistic. The
tete a tete conversation that this last sitting represents is opposed to
the supposition that the difficulties alluded to in the last case of
dramatic play are anything but spiritistic.
(3) Mistakes and Confusions.
The third argument for the spiritistic theory is based upon the
mistakes and confusions. By mistakes I do not mean the positively
erroneous or false incidents, but only such as might be construed as
the natural errors- of memory and interpretation, as we know them in
living minds. Still one may ask, when attempting to stretch telepathy
sufficiently to account for the phenomena by its special and selective
omniscience, whether positive errors are not a contradiction in such an
hypothesis. A capacity which can discriminate so effectively between
the true and the false in most of its acquisitions, and which can select
and present the truth in instances that are often far more complex
than those in which it is erroneous, ought to know enough, no matter
how devilish you make it, to avoid deceiving you by telling what is
not true. It ought to know what is false and not to run any risks in
its policy of deception, conscious or unconscious. A finite intelligence
can be supposed to commit errors of this sort, but such unfailing
discrimination between my own personal memories alone and those
that are common to me and the alleged communicators, and the
selection of facts unknown to me from the proper memory of some one
else in the world, at any distance and absolutely unknown to the
medium, make error of any sort a flat contradiction with such an
assumed capacity as is necessary to meet the conditions of the case, and
especially inconsistent should be the representation of incidents as true
that such a power ought to know are false, and which, when dis
covered, are sure to bring discredit upon its intentions. On any
supposition, of course, we have to reckon with the presence of the
true with the false, but it is far easier on the spiritistic theory to
admit the possibility of error than on the telepathic, because we know
that in finite minds truth and error live together and we understand
why they do so. But a telepathic power that can organise from the
scattered memories of various living beings, unknown to the person
who is supposed to exercise it, all the elements that go to establish the
personal identity of some one that is dead, is not a power that can
commit the simple mistakes of a finite memory and consciousness with
impunity. Having started on the mission of doing what ordinarily
seems impossible it must be consistent and not discover any weakness
xLI.] Observation* of Certain Trance Phenomena. 215
as we know it in the living. Otherwise its pretensions are exposed to
suspicion, and we should turn to the hypothesis that in normal life can
reconcile the facts of error with those of truth, and this hypothesis is
the one that gives unity to the phenomena by supposing limitations
that are consistent with all the facts. If the false preponderated, we
might well measure them off against the theory of chance to account
for the. true, or balance the evident limitations of telepathy in such a
case with the equal limitations of secondary personality. But the
errors are proportionately so few, and when not so few are so simple
as compared with the complexity of the true, that the limitations
involved in the explanation of the false reflect too seriously upon the
immense powers that have to be assumed to account for the true by
telepathy. That is to say, its evident finitude conflicts with its
apparent infinity. But I shall not dwell upon this in a general way,
as my purpose is to deal with it in detail and to interpret the positive
errors in the light of those merely partial errors which show just that
unity and degree of limitation which put the telepathic theory to its
severest test, and provide the natural escape from the supposition of
secondary personality in regard to the false. The mistakes, therefore,
upon which the present stress will be laid are those cases in which the
communicator is nearly right, and in which, from that very fact, the
limitations of the telepathic hypothesis are unequivocally proved, and
once admitted will both serve as an apology for the totally false
incidents and turn the scientific understanding toward the spirit
hypothesis as the only one that can rationally account for the truth
and error combined, owing to its merely repeating the laws of mind
as actually known, while the use of telepathy must be an appeal to the
unknown in stretching it to cover the complexities of the whole case.
Where the evidence in the positive cases of truth coincided with real
limitations to telepathy between living minds we could well expect
errors and confusion to be consistent with it. But when the quantity
and quality of the matter which has to be explained by telepathy, if
that is the theory to be proposed, are so great and so complex that it
demands such amazing capacities of mind reading, of the near and
remote, as defy the rationality of mistake and confusion, we are
bound to pause and reflect. Where the evidence shows a practically
omnipotent power of discrimination, selection and acquisition, mistakes
of a kind that ought not to occur on any such supposition must
contradict the hypothesis and favor the theory in which mistakes are
natural and probable.
This argument can be put in a still more effective way. Finite
memories in the actual world commit so many mistakes that psychical
researchers are afraid to admit human testimony involving the facts
alleged to prove a future existence. Why, then, be any more exacting
216 [part
J. H. Hysloj), Ph.D.
of supposed discarnate spirits 1 We ought to expect a priori that st
discarnate memory should be defective in its communications from a
transcendental world, and this for two very important reasons. (1)
If the physiological theory of memory be true, we ought to obtain
absolutely nothing whatever of a spirit's past existence from the spirit
itself, assuming of course that it can or does exist. (2) The con
ditions of any communication at all might very well disturb either
the integrity of memory or the message, or both, for the time being
at least, sufficiently to make the communicator commit very many
mistakes.
The physiological theory of memory is usually couched in such
terms as to imply the entire dependence of that function upon the
brain, even by those who do not think the brain sufficient to account
for consciousness at large. This would naturally imply that dissolution
must efface all memory of the past, even if the subject still survived.
The physiologist, therefore, who concedes the brain theory, cannot
expect anything as a message from a discarnate world, even when he
believes, in contradiction with the principle that all rational belief
depends upon evidence, that there is such a world. I am not disputing
that theory of memory, as I am willing to concede its truth if the
evidence can be produced in its favor, but I insist that such a theory
must destroy all rights to believe in a discarnate world at all, even if
such exists, simply because the belief is without evidence, and its
reality, when supposed, without interest of any kind. But modifying
the doctrine so that brain functions are supposed merely to affect the
integrity of memory, not to condition its existence, we should then
naturally expect some disturbance in its power of recall in a discarnate
form, supposing this survival possible. Consequently we have no
right to prejudge the case by the a priori assumption that spirit
communications should be freer from mistakes than the deliverances
of consciousness in the abnormal conditions of actual life. But again,
assuming that the physiological theory of memory is altogether false,
the conditions intervening between two disparate worlds must, on
every principle of rationality, affect the communications in some way,
so that mistakes should occur, and these of a kind that ought not to
occur on the telepathic hypothesis, as that supposition has not to
assume any but terrestial conditions to deal with. No matter how
clear the memory may actually be in its own medium, any contact
with abnormal conditions must affect its integrity, for the time being
at least, according to the physiological theory. That ought to be a
truism, so that mistakes and confusion, more especially on the spiritistic
theory than the telepathic, should be expected and actually strengthen
the evidence if they occur in the form which the nature of the case
enables us to expect.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 217
Also we should expect errors if personal identity survives. What-
we know of the mind shows it to be finite, and it would have to be
finite after death if the general law of continuity holds good at all.
Consequently, the very supposition of identity would make mistakes of
memory, inference, and judgment or interpretation, *he most natural
things in the world. The memory should show the same characteristics,
successes and failures, strength and weakness with which we are
familiar in living persons and the observations of general psychology.
Any other supposition involves such a change in the capacities of the
mind as would most likely destroy the consciousness of its identity.
The ordinary supposition that spirits, assuming here the possibility of
their existence, have transcendent powers of knowledge and memory,
is really in conflict with the notion of personal identity, and puts the-
very existence of them beyond the reach of science and legitimate
belief. Of course this loss of identity might be the fact, but even
when we suppose that the subject of the present consciousness sur
vives, the supposition of this loss of identity would cut up by the roots
both all rational belief in the existence of any such beings and the
interest that any sane man might have in a transcendental existence
if believed. If there be no personal identity, or consciousness of it,
supposing that the subject of incarnate consciousness survives, we can
have no more rational interest in a hereafter than if we were actually
annihilated, unless we meant to assume with Plato, on the one handr
that the present life affects the destiny and action of this subject
without the memory nexus, as we observe in certain connections
between the supraliminal and subliminal streams of consciousness in
normal life, and on the other, that our altruism must be strong enough
to conform to moral rules that reap no benefit for us, but only for a
subject in whose life we cannot participate in any interested way.
This may be the correct view, if you like, but it is not consistent with
the moral law that recognises the rights of the individual in its sacri
fices for the socius. But as we cannot appeal to the moral ideal that
might be anthropomorphic, or that is liable to this charge, in support
of a scientific truth, we must adjust our morals to the facts of the
universe, whether we survive or not. Nevertheless, it is legitimate
both to indicate that inconsistency and to show that the expectation
of such transcendent powers of mind as are usually assumed implies
a change in the capacities of the individual that must involve the
loss of the personal identity which is supposed. From every point of
view, therefore, we must grant that, on the supposition of personal
identity at all, the communications should show the mistakes and con
fusions of ordinary life, multiplied and intensified both by the con
ditions of communication and by the absence of the physiological
conditions that affect the action, even when they do not absolutely
218 [part
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
determine the existence, of memory. Now, as a matter of fact, the
resemblance between the phenomena of incarnate memories and those
of the alleged discarnate minds is remarkably exact. Besides showing
personal identity in what is unmistakably true, the incidents often
exhibit just that error which we should at once classify as an illusion of
memory in actual life, and consequently furnish us both a natural
■explanation of the phenomena and the evidence of their inconsistency
with the assumption of omnipotent powers on the part of the medium's
brain. Hence to decide the case against spiritism on the ground of
mistakes and confusions is to make the following assumptions: (1)
that the discarnate life, supposing it true, involves certain perfections
which, in fact, are inconsistent with the personal identity that the
believer in a future existence usually maintains; (2) that physiological
conditions in the present life do not affect either the integrity or the
action of memory ; (3) that transcendental conditions, even when the
memory is perfect, do not influence the fact and the nature of commu
nication. Now either all of these assumptions are false, as I hold them
to be, or we have a contest beween the purely physiological theories of
memory (discarding the psychological theory as in any case sub jttdice),
and the contradictions in the telepathic hypothesis. I am assuming
for the sake of argument that the physiological theory of memory
is inconsistent with any other theory of consciousness than the
materialistic, though this may not be the case as a fact, as I
should be inclined to maintain on ordinary psychological grounds. As
memory is absolutely necessary to the consciousness of personal
identity, though it might not be necessary to the identity of the subject
itself, it is the condition of establishing the identity of a discarnate
spirit, supposing its existence. But a purely physiological theory of
memory both eliminates all hope of proving the existence and persis
tence of a soul, and shuts us up to telepathy to account for the
coincidences in these phenomena that exclude chance as an
explanation. If then we ignore the force of the psychological
theory of memory against the physiological theory of the same,
the whole question narrows itself down to the adequacy of tele
pathy to account for the facts. If it is not adequate the physiological
theory of memory is not true, but vulnerable from two points of view
instead of one only. If telepathy covers the case the situation is just
what it is between the psychological and the physiological schools. But
in any case the issue centres in the capacities of telepathy, all other
controversies being suspended on the termination of this issue. Con
sequently the problem is to see if the mistakes and confusions in the
Piper phenomena are consistent with the suppositions that have to be
made to explain the incidents that are not mistakes, or whether it is
not more rational to suppose survival as only an extension of the
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 219
principles that wo already know in the action of finite consciousness.
This question will have to be discussed in the concrete, and finally
settled by the individual himself.
I have already alluded to the nature of this argument in discussing
both the unity of consciousness and the dramatic play of personality
when the occasion made it useful to do so, and hence the general import
of it ought to be detected in what has been said, especially in that
part of the dramatic play which is ostensibly undertaken to avoid error
itself. But I shall not repeat at length these incidents, as a mere
reference to them is sufficient to remind the reader of their pertinence
in this connection. I may call attention to the individual instances
of mistake and confusion in the midst of any sustained dramatic play,
but it will not be necessary to repeat the whole case for the reader
to understand the force of what I am contending for here. What we
have to do at present is to keep clear the magnitude of the telepathic
powers that have to be assumed to explain the true incidents, and
simply ask whether certain mistakes and confusions are at all consistent
with that supposition, and so whether the spiritistic hypothesis is
not the simpler and easier one as well as more in conformity with the
known laws of the finite mind and of scientific method.
I have already alluded to certain mistakes and confusions in the first
sitting that I had, as I was discussing its dramatic play, but I have
not fully indicated their significance. The incident that calls special
attention to the feature which I wish to discuss at present is the
appearance of the lady who claimed to be my mother. The names and
incidents connected therewith were false in so far as relevancy to me
is concerned. As I have already remarked (p. 186), telepathy, when
it shows such remarkable powers in the acquisition of the sitter's
memories, ought not to make such an error as this insistence that the
lady was my mother. The medium's experience in supposed tele
pathic processes ought naturally to suggest surprise at such tentative
endeavours as are found in my first sitting. All this groping about
and attendant confusion is incomprehensible on any theory that
makes experience worth anything in the development of power,
and so renders equally plausible the hypothesis which has to
encounter the natural difficulties imposed by the test conditions which
I was observing, unless we maintain that the medium has to begin her
education in the telepathic access on each occasion of a new sitter.
This supposition discounts the influence of experience with others, but
scepticism in the absence of adequate knowledge of the real capacities
of telepathy enjoys some impunity in proposing an objection of this
sort. We might suppose that on the admission of a new sitter it
requires some time to cast over the whole mass of memories and to
obtain the clue to the proper selection of incidents. This is all very
220 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
ingenious and obtains such force as it has, and that is not much, from
the limitations of our knowledge in regard to the process of what we
choose to call telepathy, but it is a priori and we have a right to
exact of its advocate empirical evidence both within and indepen
dently of the Piper case for its assertion, and an application of the
hypothesis to details, because the facts so thoroughly satisfy the
criterion for personal identity that spiritism can undoubtedly explain
the phenomena, so that the only excuse for any other hypothesis must
■ie either that it explains the phenomena more easily, or that it is a
probable alternative that demands exclusion before rational conviction
is left without a choice. What there is in telepathy to supply the
grounds for either of these alternatives must be left to those who are
able to furnish scientific evidence for their contention. But there is
no special immunity in assuming that the theory is apparent or
probable on the face of it, nor that the opposite theory demands any
more credulity than a conception which is little more, or perhaps
nothing more, than a name for general coincidences whose content is
ignored in the application of it. That is to say, the coincidence
between variations, based on the personal equation, in experimental
telepathy and variations on a similarly supposed basis in the Piper
phenomena is not suflicient evidence of their identity in abstraction
from the peculiar and striking psychological content which distinguishes
them so radically, no matter how much difficulty the statement of the
supposition may give in a formal argument.
But there is another objection to this assumption that experience
has to begin over again in each new sitter. This is not always the
fact. Perhaps it is not often so. It is very frequent that the first
sitting is as good as any other. I might even say with tolerable
accuracy that the difference between the first and other sittings is not
great enough in most cases to attribute it to any other cause than
the natural difficulties of establishing the proper connections for
communication such as the spiritistic theory would require, so that
we have to suppose telepathy always duplicating just what the
opposing theory demands. That sort of process should suggest to any
one who has a sense of humour the dangerous proximity of his assump
tion to the spiritistic theory itself. Again, this doctrine that each new
trial demands time and experience to segregate the facts necessary to
imitate personal identity necessarily breaks down on the variations
between sittings themselves. The experience counts for nothing unless
other conditions are favourable at the same time. But conditions that
subordinate experience to themselves are entitled to a more important
place than experience itself, and suggest greater consistency with
spiritism than with any alternative theory. In support of this
contention the reader may find it interesting to compare my sittings
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 221
for June 6th (p. 467), 7th (p. 477), and 8th (p. 487), and also Dr.
Hodgson's sittings for February 16th (p. 384), 20th (p. 391), and 22nd
(p. 396). See also the Statistical Summary (Nos. III., IV., and V.,
p. 119, and Nos. VI., VII., and VIII., p. 120). In these there is no
special evidence to confirm the general theory of experience, but much
to suggest the influence of very different conditions upon the result.
Further suspicion against the influence of experience in either form is
aroused by the incidents of the first sitting, in spite of the judgment
which I originally passed upon it. If we do not accept the incidents
as evidence of telepathy we are confronted with the contrast between
this and the second sitting where the evidence of something unusual is
quite apparent. If we do accept the existence of the supernormal in
the first sitting it takes that form which does not suggest anything
lik?} the gradual development of its powers. The giving of the names
of my brother Charles and my sisters Annie and Margaret, the allusion
to the death of my mother's sister with its right relation in time, the
intimation that both my father and mother were dead, all the various
specific incidents identifying my brother Charles, and two or three
approximately correct names and incidents have their cogency increased
by two facts that show how large the supposed telepathy must be, in
spite of the assumption of its need for education in the individual case.
These two facts are the name and relationship of my father's sister
and the important statement "Give me my hat and let me go," both
of which represented incidents unknown to me and hence extend the
supposed telepathy so far under conditions imagined to involve
limitations to the process that we may well wonder whether our
theory of experience and groping about in the memory of the sitter is
not a mere subterfuge. The supposition has no other strength than
the fact that the limitations of telepathy have not been positively
assigned. Ignorance, however, is not proof. I grant that the
argutnentum ad ignorantiam is a legitimate resource for raising the
standard of evidence, but it does not involve an explanation.
On the contrary, it complicates explanation by necessitating the
extension of an hypothesis without regard to the proper unity of the
phenomena. Of course a man who finds a certain formal resemblance
between telepathy and what is supposed to be spiritistic may not be
easily convinced against his will, and it is not a part of my task to
insist upon this result. I am more interested in the anticipation of
the sceptic's objections than I am in convincing him on this point.
But I think a dispassionate examination of the facts, as indicated, will
result in the recognition of the spiritistic position on this particular
question as at least equally credible with the telepathic, while in other
issues, and possibly in this also, it presents superior credentials for
favourable consideration,
222 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
There are three general facts that show there is no excuse for con
fusion in the telepathic theory. The first is the circumstance that
at no time did any amount of experience suffice to secure communica
tions with certain persons who were even more entitled to recognition
on the telepathic theory than some that were admitted. I could name
two instances very easily in my sittings, and it is all the more striking
when we know that one of these two was implied in two of the messages
given (p. 316). The second is that telepathy can show no special
reason for the short time that it is possible to communicate. The
third fact is the circumstance that telepathy has no excuse for the
differences between " communicators," one being c'ear and the other
confused. Consequently the spiritistic theory has the advantage of
being far more consistent than telepathy with the conditions
that we should be entitled to suppose and with the facts as we
know them. Concrete illustrations will indicate this better than
generalisations.
Any reader can compare the communications of my father with
those of my "uncle Clarke," and see for himself the very striking
difference between them. My uncle never got his name through
rightly, and only in one or two passages did he even get the facts
clear (pp. 90-95, 423;. Nearly all his efforts ended in hopeless
confusion, and much the same is true of my cousin Robert McCIellan.
Several times he got some important matters clear and definite, and
was always better than my " uncle Clarke." But he never became as
clear as his own father (p. 470), nor so clear as lny brother and
sister. Now the data in my mind were the same for all these per
sonalities and also for persons who never appeared at all, so that tele
pathy is absolutely without excuse for its confusions and its failures to
produce certain other persons. One or two instances of confusion or
of difference in clearness might be attributable to the " conditions "
under which telepathy acts, but that this characteristic should invariably
distinguish one communicator from another involves such a stretching
of the hypothesis of "conditions," all unknown, that we may well ask
whether what we know of the personal equation in different men, on
the one hand, and the admitted fact of necessary difficulties in any
case of communication, on the other, does not consist far more readily
with spiritism than with the a priori elasticity of telepathy and its
" conditions."
I wish to lay considerable stress upon this failure to get my uncle's
name. In the case of most of the names the difficulties either did not
show themselves or were soon overcome. The names of my half-sister
(Henrietta) and my cousin (Lucy McCIellan) gave some difficulty,
the latter especially, but were obtained at last correctly, if we can
regard "Hettie" as correctly representing Henrietta, though she was
xu.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 223
never called by anything but Henrietta by my father and the family.
There was also a little difficulty in getting through my cousin's name,
Robert McClellan, but it was not much. My uncle's name, however,
that of Carruthers, never came rightly. The exemption from difficulties
varies, as I have shown, with the communicator, or with the conditions
possibly under which the messages are delivered. But the reader will
notice that very often proper names are given promptly and without a
struggle, and in all cases with two or three exceptions, which I did not
try to have completed, were gotten correctly at last. Now there is
nothing but a very natural psychological reason, connected with the
certainty of difficulties and obstacles in the way of spirit communica
tion, for mistaking the names " uncle Clarke " and '.' uncle Charles "
for that of Carruthers, the right name, especially after his Christian
name James, had once been given. The mistake in this case, as it
must appear to the cautious scientist, is so great that I should have no
right whatsoever to suppose that this particular uncle was meant,
were it not that time and again incidents, names, and relationships
were indicated by him and about him that were true of no one
else in the world, even when taken singly, to say nothing of
their collective pertinency. This is strengthened by the natural
approximation to his correct name. One can see very easily how
"Carruthers" might be confused with the name "Charles" in the
telephone, and also how a more careful effort to make it clear by laying
the stress upon the first syllable " Car " might lead to the name
" Clarke " by suggestion, and as the representation of the communica
tions in the whole history of the Piper and similar cases is uniform in
its comparison with something like telephonic processes, we have in
the spiritistic theory a better approximation to an explanation than
in the telepathic, which ought not to get into trouble with an aural
memory when it has the visual to draw upon also. The mistake is
perfectly conceivable on the theory of spiritism, especially when we
consider the effect of unfamiliar language in these communications.
Compare the phrase " United Presbyterian " (p. 492) and experi
ments through a tube (p. 624), and also my own mistake mentioned
in a footnote (p. 240). A qua»i omnipotent telepathy which
can reproduce all the complex incidents on which I have commented
in*the discussion of the dramatic play of personality, and so easily defy
the limitations of time and space, ought not so utterly to fail in this
name when it so nearly achieves success on the analogies of both the
known action of the telephone and the represented action of spirit
communication. The assumption of telepathy requires us always to
explain why it is constantly reproducing characteristics in all their
variety and complexity, adaptation and intelligent unity, that ought
to be found in spiritistic phenomena.
224 [part
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Another illustration of a very simple mistake that represents a
natural illusion of memory is that in which my father mentions a
" flute," which he refers to my brother Will, the correction of which
makes it the guitar that belonged to my brother George (p. 461). In
this also there was a very pretty piece of dramatic playing that is
most interesting in its mechanical features. I shall notice this again.
But the important fact for remark now is the circumstance that the
mention of the " flute " and the reference of its ownership to the
wrong person has no excuse on the telepathic hypothesis, as the
incident in the form in which it is first told was false. Moreover,
before I had recognised the meaning of the message it was spontaneously
corrected to " fiddle," an instrument that more nearly resembled the
guitar that was finally indicated by action of the hand, but it
was still technically wrong and not derived telepathically, unless we
suppose this function liable to the same apperceptive errors as ordinary
judgment. How easily it might be an illusion or error of memory on
the part of my father under any conditions whatsoever, incarnate or
discarnate, is indicated by the following facts. It was about 1878 when
my brother got the guitar, and it was about 1880 when he took it with
him into another part of the State, almost totally abandoning the use
of it there, and my father never saw it from that date to his death,
sixteen years, unless when on a visit there in 1889. He was never in
the least interested in the instrument when my brother was at home,
except to say that he thought my brother would never do anything
with it. Hence it is not an unnatural mistake to mention the wrong
person as owner, especially when it is also known that the brother
mentioned was closely associated with the other in all the incidents
and relationships involved in its proper ownership. But whether the
error be attributed to an illusion of memory as an apology for it is
not the chief matter of interest, but its conflict with the telepathic
hypothesis which has been so successful, according to supposition, in
far more complicated incidents, and here is able to come near enough
to suggest what was in mind, but is wholly false in the details.
The explanation of this confusion of the flute with a guitar is not
so easy, as it involves some knowledge of supposable transcendental
conditions of existence for which there is little or no evidence in this
record. The attempt here to recall the name of the instrument 'by
imitating the manner in which it was played, and the similar attempts
to describe the uses of the cane (p. 400) by reproducing the move
ments involved, and to indicate the "gold bug" on the cane that
I gave my father by drawing it (p. 495), are illustrations of possible
actions, if the conception that the soul involves a facsimile of the
bodily form be correct (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 301). Let us at
least imagine this state of the case in order to represent the supposable
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Pkenonena. 225
effort here to communicate with me. We see that Rector is finally
reduced to the necessity of imitating the mode of playing the instru
ment as the only resource for correcting the original mistake. But
how did the error occur at first ? Assuming that the communicator
had forgotten the name of the guitar we can imagine that he himself
acted as if holding such an instrument upon his shoulder and picked
it with his fingers, and the suggestion to Rector was that of a flute,
which, on the communicator's denying it, was corrected to " fiddle,"
then " vial " for violin, and again on dissent, to actions that would
convey to me the idea of what was meant. The mistakes, therefore,
on this construction become perfectly natural and explainable on the
spiritistic theory and incomprehensibly complex and absurd on the
telepathic. The difficulty that strikes one is the assumption of any
thing like the " astral body " doctrine which is apparently so necessary
for this representation of the case. We are so accustomed to the
Cartesian conception of a soul which refuses it any property of exten
sion that we endeavour to conceive it after the idea of Boscovich's
points of force. But there is no absolutely necessary obligation to
accept the preconceptions of Cartesian dualism in order to eliminate
the associations of matter for conceiving a world transcending sense,
as is well illustrated in the phenomena of X rays, where we have a
whole universe of force that does not reveal itself to sense perception
in anything but its effects, and it is an invisible world of force in a
definite relation to extension. There is therefore nothing but the
superstition of Cartesian authority for clinging to the idea that the
soul cannot occupy space, and the " astral body " theory, divested of
its absurd theosophic assumptions and unwarranted speculations, may,
for all that we know, represent the truth. But we cannot assume it,
nor can we any more assume the theory that must represent it as a
point of force or spaceless reality. Either may be true, but must be
proved or rendered rational by the necessity of supposing one or the
other to explain facts. There is evidence, such as it is, in the records
of psychical research to make it possible, if we assume a soul at all,
that either it or the "spiritual body" occupies space, and on that
assumption the dramatic representation in this guitar incident becomes
intelligible, but on the telepathic, hypothesis it is impossible to obtain
any intelligible unity to the phenomena, and it is perhaps equally difficult
to imagine their occurrence on the supposition that the soul is a
spaceless reality, though I can conceive it possible by means that it is
not necessary to elaborate, as it is only the difficulties of telepathy,
not the legitimacy of either the Cartesian or the theosophic concep
tion of the soul, that I am endeavouring to enforce. Telepathy ought
to obtain guitar as easily as either flute, fiddle or violin, and so simple
a mistake is incompatible with the powers it is usually supposed to
Q
226 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
display. But the mistake is doubly interesting in the light of the
historical fact that in my positive knowledge father was far more
familiar with the flute, fife, fiddle or violin, and organ than he was
with the guitar, both in regard to the matter of names and the
instruments. He knew absolutely nothing about the guitar except
as in the possession of my brother.
Another illustration of a somewhat similar confusion and mistake,
is in the set of incidents connected with the communications about the
canes (p. 397). The mistakes in this instance are not due to anything
exactly like lapses of memory, but are much more like the confusion of
two similar incidents in association and memory, and to imperfections
that belong to the transmission of the messages. An illustration of
the first feature of this instance is in the sentence which apparently
speaks of one cane, but which is false on that supposition, though true
supposing that the communicator was trying to speak of two canes
that answer to the different parts of the sentence. It was false that
father ever had a curved handled cane on which he had carved his
initials, but it was true that his children had twenty-five years before
given him a gold-headed ebony cane on which his initials were carved,
and I had given him a cane with a curved handle about one year
before his death. But it turns out that the elaborate description of
the various uses of the cane, an account which I could not understand
at the time, was not intended to refer to this curved handled cane that
was suggested to me, but to another curved handled one that had been
broken and mended with a ring of tin (p. 533). Hence it appears as
if two canes were here in mind, and if the representation that is
generally given of the imperfections of the messages be true this
conjecture . that the attempt was to mention both canes has its
possibilities. But without apologising for the case at present, the
difficulty that is presented to telepathy in this complicated incident
is that of being able to discriminate so clearly in all important
instances and yet falling into hopeless confusion at a very simple
discrimination in this instance. It is also farther complicated with
the fact that, whatever association is permitted to it in the acquisition
of incidents, in this case there is the fact that I knew nothing about
my father's habits in the uses of the cane as indicated. Hence we
have to suppose, in this attempt to apply telepathic association to
explain the confusion of like memories, that this associative power can
instantly reach out into space and secure what I did not know to
finish the picture of what I did know, no distinction being drawn in
telepathic acquisitions between the known, the remembered and the
forgotten, as well as the unknown. This involves instant rapport with
any living person with the implied infinite power of discrimination
between the right and the wrong facts. With such a power there
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 227
ought not to occur such a simple error as the confusion of the gold-
headed and the curved-handled cane, nor after the easy and clear
access of similar facts at any distance should there have been this
pantomime process describing the uses of the cane. The facts ought
to have been clearly given. But when we know the facts about the
cane, and recognise that the description which Rector gives fits exactly
what I ascertained in regard to my father's habits on such occasions
as my notes describe (pp. 415-416) we have an intelligible pheno
menon. Of course it takes the " spiritual body " theory to make this
intelligible in descriptive language to our imagination, though the
very confusion and difficulties of communication in such incidents
may be due to the falsity of that doctrine, and I do not care to urge
it as in any way necessary or indispensable to the occurrence of the
phenomena.
The next instance of mistake is much like the one just discussed in
one of its aspects. It is the case of referring what was true of one
brother to another of whom it was not true, though in all but the
character of the incidents that the communicator had in mind the main
circumstance applied to both. I refer to notes for details (p. 516).
But it was an instance in which the communicator, when living, had
taken objections to the social affiliations of two brothers, the grounds
and reasons being very different in each case. Here is a situation for
natural confusion in any mind, where either the memory is imperfect
or the conditions disturbing to the communications, whatever the
memory. The events were contemporaneous and of the same general
character, but different in their specific marks. Association would
naturally bring both into consciousness, and difficulties in the com
munication might do the rest, or there might be a momentary illusion
of memory in the recall of the events, and any sensitiveness of the
communicating " machine " might reflect that illusion or a part of it.
There is much in the record to illustrate the influence of precisely the
factor just mentioned (pp. 324, 430). But whether or not, it is certain
that the lapse of twenty years, as was the case in this instance, with
the unquestionably difficult conditions of communication would easily
produce such a mistake as we find here. Nor can we say that it might
be precisely the error that telepathy would make in its attempt to use
the law of association, for it showed no tendency to commit such a
mistake in the tax incidents (p. 493) which represented a situation
similar to this. The distinction was clearly made between the latter
by the communicator, and obliviscence on my part resulted in the con
fusion on my side until my correspondence showed that the communi
cator was right. Moreover, in all other instances in which telepathy
is supposed and in which association is a necessary factor, its command
of that function is so perfect by the terms of its success in getting the
Q 2
228 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
rightly connected incidents, that its mistake in such a case is an
evidence of weakness that discredits it as an explanatory hypothesis.
In support of the naturalness of this mistake in both instances
above described, and of its explicability in terms of a personal con
sciousness other than the medium's brain, I shall narrate exactly
parallel instances in my own experience. They show that if I had
been a communicating spirit at the time I should have committed the
same error.
On September 4th last I was reading Miss Alice Johnson's paper on
" Coincidences," and when I came to the case of the boat race which
I had reported myself (Proceedings, Vol. XIV., p. 253), I noticed the
fact that I had completely forgotten that I had reported it, though
I recalled it presently, but thought at the same time that it was the
same boat race which figures in the " Experiments on Identification of
Personality " (p. 579). I instantly recalled the persons that took
part in this experiment and it was some minutes before I discovered
that the instances were entirely different. The interest in the fact
lies in the circumstance that if I had been a communicating spirit at
the time, I should not only have confused the two boat races, but I
should have sent through the wrong names in connection with one of
them. A precisely similar case was the confusion of the 23rd Psalm
with the 1 33rd, as noted in another instance where I did not discover
my mistake for more than six months, and then only under the
correction of my wife (p. 612).
One of the most interesting illusions of this kind on my part is the
following, and it will not be less interesting to know that the discovery
of it destroys one of the illustrations that I had originally quoted
against the spiritistic theory in the first draft of this discussion.
When I was re-reading the Report of Professor Lodge after my
sittings (Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 520), I was struck with the resem
blance between the incident there told of an accident with a boat and
a reference to a boat by my father (p. 478). I at once noted the fact,
and, without comparing it with my record, accepted my memory
of it and raised the question whether it was not a good piece of
evidence for the unity of the two regimes, the Phinuit and Imperator
personalities. In my first draft, therefore, of my report, relying
wholly upon my memory of the incidents, I said, "The incident which
my father narrates about the upsetting of a boat and his sister helping
him to dry his clothes is almost exactly duplicated in all its details by
a similar communication to Professor Lodge in England in 1889." But
in the revision of this draft I was induced to examine my statements
in the light of the record and the following mistakes occur in the
above statement placed in quotation marks. My father says nothing
of the upsetting of a boat and nothing of his sister's helping him dry
xLL] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 229
his clothes, though the language " helped me out of the difficult/ '
might be so interpreted in this and other ways from the context (see
p. 478). Nor does my father say, as was indicated of the sister in
Professor Lodge's incident, that she had " screened " the accident from
the knowledge of others. The source of the illusion on my part was as
follows :—
The incident narrated by my father does not indicate that a boat
was upset, but at another time my brother Charles mentioned in his
message about a boat that it had been overturned (p. 464), and also
father, in his incident about the broken waggon and wheel, said that
his sister Eliza had " tried to cover it up, so it would not leak out, so
to speak " (p. 470). It is perfectly clear, therefore, that my memory
had confused three different incidents in making up the identity of
my case with that of Professor Lodge. Now if I had been a com
municator under the circumstances I should have transmitted or made
a statement which the sitter would have had to condemn as false, or
reconstruct from his own knowledge of the facts into three different
incidents. Compare the incident of the " chest," etc., Note 93, p. 534.
I must mention still another illusion of memory on my part, of
precisely the same kind as the above. It occurred while Dr. Hodgson
and myself were revising together the record, and comparing it with
the original automatic writing. The expression " the whole city "
occurred in connection with the reference to the incident 'of the fire
(p. 324), and I recalled the burning of Chicago which had interested
and affected my father very much. Dr. Hodgson asked when this
occurred, and I replied that it was in 1873. Dr. Hodgson remarked
that he thought it was in 1872. I replied that it must have been in
1873, because it had occurred after I started to college, and this was
in the year 1873. The incident that made me think so was the
recollection that I had remarked the smoky appearance of the country
at the time, and the locality in mind was that of the college which
I was attending. In a moment I recalled that it was my father
who had remarked in my presence at the time of the Chicago fire that
possibly the smoky atmosphere, though we were three hundred miles
from Chicago, was influenced by that conflagration. The moment that
this memory occurred to me I found that my previous impression must
be false, as father's observation applied to the old home locality,
which was fifty miles from the place where I was attending college,
and this latter place he had never seen. For a moment I was puzzled
to account for the lapse of memory. But the next moment I recalled
the fact that during the dry fall at college a large forest fire broke out
that did very much damage, and the smoke in the surrounding country
reminded me precisely of the smoky sky and atmosphere that we
observed at the time of the Chicago fire. I have often thought of the
230 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
two incidents together. I looked up the matter and found that the
Chicago fire occurred in 1871. My memory, then, was partly wrong
and partly right in its recollection. There was a distinct connection
between the two events, but it was mental and not chronological or
otherwise objective. Here again, therefore, if I had been communi
cating, I should have confused the incidents of two separate events in
my communication, though I should have been correct in the subjective
connection given them, a fact, however, which the sitter might never
have ascertained or appreciated.
In the messages of my sittings we have exactly the mental situa
tion of these cases duplicated and the identical error committed. The
little resemblance that the incidents have to telepathy, especially the
last, is shown by the statement about "catching the fish on Sunday"
and connecting it with my brother Frank, which, if it be pertinent at
all, represents two facts that are false. First, that the fishing was on
Sunday, and second that " Sunday " is a word that my father never
used, as he absolutely and always used the word " Sabbath." He forbade
its use on our part. At best the incident is only partly true, and if
altogether false is certainly not telepathic. Then, if telepathy has such
good command of the memories and associations in the minds of others,
the word " Sabbath " ought to have been obtained here from its
association with my father's name, and especially as this usage is also
Rector's, who has to be treated on the telepathic hypothesis as
Mrs. Piper's secondary personality.
While I am indicating illusions of memory on the part of the living
that are duplicated in these sittings I may as well indicate two more,
which will show the need of some charity for spirit communications.
In my conversation with one of the persons living and named in this
record, I was asked by him : " How is your sister Eliza, who lives in
Philadelphia?" Now my sister by the name of Eliza, or Lida, was
never known or heard of by this man, and she does not live in
Philadelphia. It was my aunt Nannie who lived in Philadelphia,
Pa., and it was she that he referred to in the question. When I told
him that he was mistaken in regard to the name, he could not believe
it, and it was some time before I could make the matter clear to him.
About an hour later his wife, who had not been in the room during
this conversation, asked me : " How is your Aunt Eliza, who lives in
Philadelphia ? " I found that she also meant my aunt Nannie. Now
my aunt Eliza lives in Ohio and not in Philadelphia. Both of these
aunts, Nannie and Eliza, had recently lost their husbands, one of
whom, James Carruthers, was a communicator in this record. It is
not probable that either of the inquirers had heard of his death. The
other, the husband of aunt Nannie, was a minister of some standing
in his church, and his death was known to the inquirers, as I found by
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 231
interrogating them. Both were thus mistaken in regard to the name
and place of residence of the person of whom they were inquiring.
If a discarnate spirit had committed it, no apology would have been
allowable for it, except that telepathy, in spite of its amazing and
elastic achievements, might slip in this way, but a human intelli
gence never !
There were several mistakes in the use or relationship of proper
names which had already been given rightly by certain communicators,
the error sometimes being by the person most naturally expected to
make such an error. For instance, my deceased brother Charles, who
never, when living, knew or heard of the Lucy McClellan mentioned
in this record, and with whom, of course, the name was never associated
in my mind, called her his aunt, when she was his cousin (Cf.
" step-sister," p. 462).
There is another remarkable illustration of both the dramatic
play of personality and at least apparent mistake that should be
examined in detail. It is the case in which my cousin Robert McClellan
endeavours to speak the name of his wife, which was evidently not
understood by Rector (pp. 442, 508). My cousin Robert McClellan
made a reference apparently to his " dear relatives " and exhibited
his usual confusion. But Rector tells the communicator at once
to " speak slower, I cannot hear it," and then says to him :
" Well, go out then and come again with it," and receives the
reply, " All right." Rector then says to me : " Yes, but I did
not get what he said last. He said something about Lucy,
but it was not for thee, friend," evidently alluding by the word
"friend" to Dr. Hodgson, because he at once explains to Dr.
Hodgson that "the Lucy is not Jessie's sister," meaning Miss Lucy
Edmunds and her sister Jessie, who had at some previous time com
municated with Miss Edmunds, Dr. Hodgson's secretary. He then
said directly to me that the " Lucy " was for me. Assuming that it
was my cousin Robert McClellan that was communicating, I asked
him what relation this Lucy was to him, hoping he would say his
wife, and received the irrelevant answer, " Mother said it only a
moment ago, and she is on father's side, and he comes and speaks of her
often." Dr. Hodgson then asked Rector to " state explicitly who this
Lucy is," and Rector replied :
" Did not hear it. All right. We will see about it as both Annie and
her father have brought her here several times, and aunt Nannie will know
well. (I shall ask aunt Nannie about it.) She is a cousin of thine, friend.
Dost thou not hear ? (Yes. I hear clearly). But do not remember.
(I remember one cousin Nannie and one aunt Nannie). Yes, she is. Aunt
Nannie is in the body and cousin Nannie is in the spirit. (Yes, your . . .
what relation is this cousin Nannie to you ?) She is my sister. (R. H.
Whose sister ?) LUCY'S " (p. 442).
232 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Now I can make both the truth and the possible confusion in this
passage clear only by an elaborate explanation which will show it
perfectly intolerable on the telepathic hypothesis. First let me name
the dramatis persona: in the case. There are my cousin Robert
McClellan, the communicator ; my aunt Nannie, who is also his aunt
Nannie ; my cousin Nannie, who is his sister, and whom he constantly
called "aunt Nannie," during the long illness in which she nursed him,
in deference to the habits of his children; "cousin Nannie," which I
interpret as a mistake of the " machine " for " Annie," referring to my
sister, the communicator's cousin ; and Rector.
I did not at the time understand the communicator's reference to
his mother and the statement that " she is on father's side." Hence
Dr. Hodgson's request to state explicitly who this Lucy was. Now
when Rector said : " Both Annie and her father have brought her here
several times," he most evidently had his mother, my father's sister,
or possibly his stepmother in mind. Now, again, when Rector says :
" Aunt Nannie will know well," he makes a statement which will be true
whether it refers to the aunt of both the communicator and myself by
that name, or to his sister whom he called "aunt" as explained. Both
would know what I was expected to know here. But when I said that
I should " ask aunt Nannie about it," I had in mind the aunt of both
of us, and hence a most interesting possible confusion begins. The
answer : " She is a cousin of thine, friend," is absurd in relation to
what I had in mind. It was correct as referring to his sister.
Suppose the statement " Aunt Nannie will know well " refers to
my aunt, and the answer to my question, if the " she " refers to her,
is both absurd and false, and telepathy has no claims. If the phrase
"aunt Nannie" refers to my cousin's sister, as explained, and the
" she " is supposed also to refer to her, the statement that she is my
cousin is correct, but it is not what I had in my mind at the time, nor
does it represent anything that I knew of, as the discovery of the
communicator's habit of calling his sister his " aunt " was an unknown
fact to me at the time, and one that it was not possible under the
circumstances for me to know, as my notes show (p. 508), and telepathy
would have tremendous odds to face, as it would involve the instan
taneous act of acquiring the fact in the distant West from an unknown
memory. Assuming then that the communicator had his sister in
mind, called " aunt " as explained, and that he did not understand
my reference to aunt Nannie, the aunt of both of us, his answer :
" she is a cousin of thine, friend," made by Rector is correct. I
had in mind in my statement: "I remember one cousin Nannie
and one aunt Nannie," the former the sister of the communicator
and the latter the aunt of both of us. Supposing the communicator
to have in mind the same persons, his answer that : " Aunt Nannie
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 233
is in the body and cousin Nannie is in the spirit," is only half true
and is half false, so that telepathy here breaks down. Supposing that
he had in mind his sister, when speaking of "aunt Nannie," as
explained, and my sister Annie, his cousin, when he said " cousin
Nannie," he is perfectly correct in his statements, but the name
" cousin Nannie " is false and not gotten by telepathy, as I have no
cousin Nannie on the "other side," while I never knew that he
called his sister by the name of " aunt." Again, supposing that he
had in mind the aunt of both of us when he said " aunt Nannie," and
my cousin, his sister, when he said " cousin Nannie," he would have
been right in the statement about the aunt of both of us, but
wrong about the other, as she is still living, so that telepathy breaks
down with this. But if he missed getting the word " cousin " in my
question, and had in mind his sister, as explained, when he said
" aunt Nannie " his answer is correct, but the act is too much like
real communications with mistakes to appeal to telepathy, as she was
my cousin, his sister, and called " aunt " by him as explained. On this
interpretation also the statement that she was Lucy's sister is true to
the extent of being her sister-in-Zaw, the name of the real sister to this
" Lucy," his wife, having been given later (p. 452). If again he has
in mind the "Nannie" who is aunt to us both the answer to my
question, whether the word " cousin " is caught or not, is absurd and
false, and telepathy is again lost. The consequence of all this is that
telepathy and the standpoint of that hypothesis only leads to hopeless
confusion and contradiction, and we have to choose between making
the case spiritistic or nothing at all. But the mere names and the
approximation to the truth in any form of the confusion we may
choose to suppose prove that the passage cannot be repudiated. Hence
the following statement of the case will make it clear.i
The supposed confusion occurs wholly from assuming the stand
point of my mind for understanding the case. Let me, therefore,
reconstruct it with the interpretation of my questions as they might
have been understood on the " other side " under the conditions
described, and we shall see how simple it is on the spiritistic
hypothesis. To do this I shall have to alter my questions to suit the
assumptions involved, which the reader will see are warranted from
what I have said. I shall also throw the aunt of both of us out of
i After attempting to understand the complicated analysis and explanation of
this incident, the reader will appreciate Rector's situation as well as his own if he
will compare the passage in the Theatetus of Plato, where the latter gives the
student an example of the complications with which he has to deal in the problem of
ascertaining the truth about the nature of knowledge. Jowett's translation of Plato,
Vol. IV., p. 255. Third Edition. For the benefit of American readers I shall refer
also to the smaller American edition of Jowett's translation of Plato, Vol. III.,
p. 397.
234 J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
account, as it was a mere chance that the statement about her knowing
the names well was true and it is not necessary so to interpret it.
Let me state again the dramatis personm of the reconstruction, and
avoid the false use of the terms and names from the point of view of
my mind. We shall then have the communicator's mother ; my father,
the communicator's uncle ; Lucy, the communicator's wife ; the " aunt
Nannie," his sister and my cousin, as explained above ; and my sister
Annie, the communicator's cousin and by mistake of the " machine "
called " Nannie." 1 start with my question directed to the communi
cator. The following will be the reconstruction :
" (But what relation was Lucy to you ? ) mother said it only a
moment ago, and she is on father's side, and he comes and speaks of
her [Lucy] often.
(R.H. : Yes. Rector, kindly get George to state explicitly, if
possible, who this Lucy is. Last time I think you wrote it several
times, but when I was out of the room, perhaps the time before, and
our friend here I think did not read it at the time. )
[Rector :] Did not hear it. All right. We will see about it as
both Annie and her father have brought her here several times, and
sister Nannie will know well.
(S. : I shall ask Nannie about it.)
[Rector :] She is a cousin of thine, friend. Dost thou not hear ?
(S. : Yes, I hear clearly.)
[Rector :] But do not remember 1
(S. : I remember one cousin Nannie [communicator's sister] and
one aunt Nannie.)
[Rector or communicator :] Yes, she is. " Aunt " [sister] Nannie
is in the body and cousin Annie is in the spirit.
(S. : Yes, your . . . what relation is this my cousin Nannie
to you ?)
[Communicator : ] She is my sister.
(R. H. : Whose sister ?)
[Rector :] Lucy's. [In reality siaber-in-law.]
The last answer ought to have been " mine," meaning the com
municator's sister, but he evidently disappears from inability to
communicate, as he had to do before and Rector answers for him with
an attempt nearly successful, to identify this Lucy. Throwing out
Rector's slight mistake we have a perfectly intelligible story from the
standpoint of an assumed communicator, and absolutely nothing on
any other supposition but what is correct enough, though confused, to
prevent us from repudiating it. Telepathy disappears in worse con
fusion than its supposed powers can endure for a moment, and we
must choose spiritism or nothing as our theory. It would not alter
the case to suppose that Rector when he said : " Aunt Nannie will
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 235
know well," had added the word " Aunt " as interpreting my cousin's
possible use of Nannie to mean my Aunt Nannie previously mentioned.
It would only increase the confusion in the mind of the trance
personality which is supposed to be so good at telepathy ! !
Two of the most interesting instances of mistake are those in the
use of the word "library" to denote the sitting-room and "Sunday "
to denote Sabbath by my father. He never called the sitting-room
his "library," according to the memory of all the family. I never
heard it, especially as he had no special shelves even for his very
few books. As to Sunday, my notes and previous remarks explain
this (pp. 432, 67). Father was religiously scrupulous about saying
Sabbath, and it would call forth a severe rebuke upon any of us to say
Sunday, and we never did it. In fact it has been only during the last
few years that I have adopted the use of Sunday, in deference to the
environment in which I move. But assuming intermediaries, as the
case represents their constant intervention and assistance, we find a
circumstance that is a centre shot at telepathy, besides explaining the
source of confusion and mistakes. The effect of these mistakes against
telepathy would be the same without the assumption of intermediaries,
because, with the enormous powers attributed to telepathy and neces
sary to explain at least 75 per cent, of the messages, if spiritism be
excluded, the absence of hesitation in the language under all conditions
of acquisition should be followed by as accurate a selection of the
right words in these simple instances as in any other, especially as
Imperator and Rector themselves naturally use the word " Sabbath " in
their communications. In one of these instances (p. 432) the use of
the word " Sunday " was accompanied by hesitation before the word
was written, as the record shows. Now, in this very sitting we are
told directly that George Pelham is assisting my father (p. 435), and
there are several indications of the fact by G. P. himself (Cf. pp. 211—
213), and from what we know of him he would never use the word
" Sabbath." The hesitation could then be due to his failure to catch
the meaning of my father's message, which would most naturally
be expressed in the word " Sabbath." There is no direct evidence
that G. P. was an intermediary in the other instance in which the
word "Sunday" was used, but we are not always informed of
who the intermediaries are besides Rector. In one case, I should
never have known that G. P. was an intermediary in the case of
some communications from my brother, had it not been for G. P.'s
own statement the next day, in which he said that he had helped a
man by the name of Charles the last time (p. 468). But this one
instance of the influence of intermediaries in the message containing
" Sunday " shows how the phenomenon can be explained, while the fact
of the error which tends to disprove personal identity both displaces
236 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
telepathy and, especially in connection with the hesitation accompany
ing it, confirms spiritism. It is much the same with the use of the
word " library," which was not natural with father. It is very com
mon to use the term for " sitting room," which is the natural
expression for my father, and it might be that " library " is the natural
term for Rector in expressing the idea here involved, especially if it is
the usual form in England, as he purports to be one of the " controls "
of Stainton Moses. This conception of the case is well borne out in
the message delivered to Dr. Hodgson about the " coach " when
referring to the rough roads and country (p. 401). "Coach" is a.
word that father would never use except in reference to a certain
vehicle in the cities, which he never visited more than half-a-dozen
times in his life. The word he always used was " carriage," and he
would laugh at himself as well as be laughed at, if he used " coach "
to express what is conveyed to me by that term in the message
mentioned. But the usage in England is very different, as I under
stand it, and if Rector is to be treated as influenced by his connec
tion with Stainton Moses, or personally acquainted with English
habits of expression, we have both an explanation of the variation
from my father's usage and an index of the limitations of telepathy
(Cf. Phinuit's expressions in England, Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 517,
519, 520, 521). This process makes no use of the associates in my
memory, as has to be supposed in other cases, but acts precisely as an
independent intelligence would act, that is, misses in the game of
deception that has to be attributed to it the simplest resource for
its consistency and defence. The spiritistic theory, however, gives
both unity and consistency to the whole phenomenon.
Another type of mistake has already been alluded to in the discus
sion of the dramatic play of personality, but not fully examined in its
importance. It is illustrated almost exclusively in Dr. Hodgson's
sittings for me, though it appears occasionally in the communications
of my uncle and cousin when I am present, as it appears that they
have to seek the aid of intermediaries more generally than father.
But in Dr. Hodgson's sittings for me the communicator naturally
mistakes my presence at times and addresses Dr. Hodgson as if he
were addressing ine personally. Of course it is not absolutely
necessary that we should suppose him unconscious of the situation, as
a man might address another in this way with distinct knowledge that
he was employing an intermediary. But the evident understanding
at the outset until corrected that he was to communicate with me
directly on this occasion, rather favours the supposition that the com
municator was not perfectly clear as to the real situation, and it would
be natural to use the second person as he did, until he later and
suddenly awakened to the fact that he was speaking to Dr. Hodgson.
xLL] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 237
In one remarkable passage, however (p. 387), " Answer this for me,
James, when you come again," he combines the address to the second
person with the consciousness that I was not present, so that we must
be cautious in supposing that the confusion about me is greater than it
may be when using the second instead of the third person. But
■whether conscious or unconscious, it involves precisely the mistake
that telepathy ought not to make. It should play its part more
consistently. If this power of dramatic play and simulation of
reality were one-half what it must be in order to escape the
spiritistic theory, there should be no such mistakes as the con
fusion of the second and third persons in the communications.
We can sustain telepathy only on two suppositions in the case.
First, that it knows enough to thus commit the mistake purposely in
order to imitate more thoroughly the requirements of the spiritistic
theory which demand the probability of such errors. But this
contradicts its limitations in all mistakes in which it selects words or
facts against personal identity, though consistent with the influence
of intermediary and independent intelligence. This shrewdness of
telepathy is not present in crucial situations testing its supposed
qualities. Secondly, we may adduce the gratuitous hypothesis that
there were alterations of rapport between Dr. Hodgson in Boston and
myself in New York. But the facts cannot be studied with this
conception in view without discovering some striking contradictions,
to say nothing of its naturally preposterous and unsupported nature
as a supposition. For instance, in the first sitting with Dr. Hodgson,
in spite of the explanation of the situation to the communicator, he
addresses me instead of Dr. Hodgson, though the supposition is that
the rapport is with Dr. Hodgson, as most of the sitting is taken up
with an explanation of what the communicator is to do. In the
second sitting for about the first half of it he addresses me, until after
an interval of respite he suddenly discovers, as it were, that ho is
talking to Dr. Hodgson, and then proceeds to speak to him of me in
the third person. But all this while, whether the rapport be
constantly in one place jor alternatively in Boston and New York, the
facts communicated remain from the same source, and the play of
personality changes to suit the spiritistic theory. Comparison of the
situations in the first and second sittings by Dr. Hodgson will show
how natural the procedure is. In the first the communicator starts with
the preconception that he is sending messages direct to me, but in the
second, after Dr. Hodgson's explanation in the first, the communicator
gradually becomes aware of the situation that he can command better,
and he does not have to think merely of the messages and the person
for whom they are intended, but he can also hold in mind the fact that
they are directed to another person. It requires an extra effort of
238 [part
J. H, Hyslop, Ph.D.
attention to keep the complexity of the situation in view, and con
sequently to distinguish rightly the persons involved while occupied
with the delivery of messages. The whole action, therefore, is that of
an independent intelligence with all its limitations and difficulties,
instead of telepathic powers which never know when to play
consistently the r6le of the infinite.
I shall not go over again the mistakes connected with the name of
my stepmother, and the confusion in the attempts to get it rightly.
My notes and the discussion of the dramatic play of personality illus
trate this fully enough, and the slightest observation ought to
recognise the absurdity of all this enormous effort to secure so simple a
name by telepathy when other names far more difficult had been
obtained so easily. This absurdity of the telepathic hypothesis in the
instance present is especially noticeable when we recall the fact that,
by supposition, telepathy was able to avoid the use of the word " aunt "
when saying " Nannie " for my stepmother, thus carefully enough
distinguishing between two persons with entirely different names and
yet could give only one of them !
(4) Automatisms.
The last type of phenomena illustrating confusion is represented
by what I have called " automatisms " in my notes.l They occur
generally at the close of some period of communication, or when some
i Apropos of the possible causes of mistake and confusion, in so far as the con
ditions affecting automatism on both sides may produce them, I may refer to some
observations of Mr. Douse, who had the task of reading nearly a thousand answers
of candidates at a certain University Examination. They illustrate the influence of
normal automatism in a variety of ways affectingerroneousspelling and abbreviations.
Mr. Douse calls them minor psychological interferences. He makes the following
introductory statement before classifying the phenomena observed.—(Mind, N. S.,
Vol. IX. pp. 85-93).
'' The average age of the candidates wasover nineteen years ; and except somehalf-
dozen (who are here left out of account) they were all excellent spellers. Being set
down to write, under pressure and against time, compositions of their own upon given
questions, those young people may be considered to have been involuntary subjects of
a psychological experiment, with the advantage to the experimenter that they were
totally unaware of it. Their comparatively few and far between mistakes were at fiist
passed as sporadic eccentricities ; but when mistakes of a similar character, and some
of identical form, appeared again and again in the answers of different candidates, it
seemed to me obvious that they must be due to a common cause or common causes ;
and this became demonstrable as soon as I had jotted down and classified a few
scores of them. Speaking generally, the cause of the perturbations, except as regards
one class, was found to be a momentary withdrawal of attention from the point at
which the pen had arrived in the process of writing, and its transference to some
neighbouring point in the line of ideas which the mind had evolved or was striving to
evolve."
There were five classes of errors observed by Mr. Douse which he named and of
which he gave numerous illustrations. In a footnote, he remarks that he observed
precisely the same mistakes in different persons and marks the illustrations according
xxi.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 239
condition of syncope comes on, or whatever we may call the condition
for lack of better knowledge. They are not intended as messages to
the sitter by the communicator, but nevertheless they slip through by
some means or other. I shall choose a few instances for illustration.
In the sitting for December 23rd, 1898 (p. 307), there was the absurd
and irrelevant message written out : " I say give me my hat." This
would have been meaningless to me, had it not been for my brother's
observation that it was a very common expression of my father in
situations when he was suddenly required to meet some emergency
and go out of doors or do some errand. We must remember that he
could walk only with great difficulty, and often asked for some such
service to save himself time and trouble. Supposing him in danger
of a sort of hypnotic state when communicating, if anything .like
syncope occurred that necessitated his retiring from the " machine," we
can well understand how the familiar phrase might unconsciously obtain
utterance, and it occurred twice under similar circumstances. It
occurred in the first sitting (p. 307) just before my brother Charles
alluded to my father, who apparently could not yet communicate, and
was repeated under somewhat similar circumstances at the second
to the number with the Latin words saepc (frequent) and bis (twice). The following
summarises instances in each class.
(1) Prolcpsis, or "assimilation from ahead." Skekel for shekel, spooped for
stooped, prounounco (saepc), prounoun (saepc), tablenacle, "The general ruled is
followed," etc.
(2) Metapedcsit, or "overleaping." Possive for possessive, preced (bis) for
preceded, combing for combining, rembrance for remembrance, voculary for
vocabulary.
(3) Metallage or " cross compensation." Silibants (bis) for sibilants, patalals for
palatals, phamplets (bis) for pamphlets, padoga for pagoda, etc.
(4) Opisthomimesis or " assimilation from the rear." Biship, synonyns, househould,
"The verb does not agree with both of the subjects, both (but) only with one," " Again
in doing a certain again (action)," etc.
(5) "Contamination." A candidate, as often happened, would spell "Teutonic"
nine times correctly, but the tenth time he would write "Tuetonic" through the
unconscious influence of the very similar Tuesday ; similarly " villian " (villain) was
affected by "ruffian"; "goldern" by " leathern " ; "Lords Templars " by " Lords
Temporal," and once "The troubled Tiber chaffing with her shores."
In Mrs. Piper's automatic writing we often observe such mistakes in so far as they
are automatisms, but I cannot classify them under the heads above enumerated in all
cases. They also occur with the sitter in taking his notes or copying the communi
cations. For instance, while writing this very note, in the first draft of the very next
sentence, by "Prolepsis" I wrote "collecting they (them) over a wide area,
of experiments, they are," etc. But whether classifiable or not, as they may be by
collecting them over a wide area of experiments, they are automatisms that often
give rise to an apparent error in the messages. Sometimes the error is so apparent
from the context that it hardly needs to be reckoned as such. I shall mention a few.
Often Mrs. Piper's hand inscribes " right " for " write," and vice versa, and "too "
for "to," and vice versa. Once in my record Rector wrote "Arthur" for "after"
(p. 424). The case of "Frad" for "Frank" (p. 338) illustrates another form. It
was written so that a part of the " N" was made as in " FRAN," and then finished as
240 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
sitting (p. 313). At the third sitting (p. 332), the strange inco-
herency, " Do you hear her sing ? " occurred. Again at the fourth
sitting (p. 336) : "Where is my coat?" I would treat the reference
to his pen (p. 378) as an automatism, though a more definite and
intelligent allusion was made to it later. But all these phenomena do
not show the slightest resemblance to what the general trend of our
assumed telepathy indicates. These automatisms exhibit no conscious
effort to indicate personal identity, as telepathy must be supposed to
do, if tolerable at all. They are just such wandering flights of con
sciousness as we should expect of a mind labouring under mental
conditions that fade now and then into delirium, and that may be
equally affected by physiological and psychological influences acting
in the organism of the medium. The intervals between communicators
are often marked by traces of automatism, as if there were inter-
mundane or other influences at work to disturb the process of
communicating. Hence they are intelligible on the spiritistic, and not
on the telepathic hypothesis.
The automatisms representing Rector's questions to communicators,
remarks to them, and communicators' remarks to each other, are not only
the letter "D," and then "FRED" was given. The crowding of the thoughts
together, as in " Opisthomimesis " above, might thus account for the confusion of the
two canes, the curved handled one and the one with the initials carved in the end
(p. 397). We can imagine also how "Campaign" might become "camp" (p. 371).
f-ee also the possible confusion of "Maggie" for "Nannie." The spelling of
" Hyomei" as "Himi " (p. 336), while a natural phonetic error, illustrates the diffi
culties in the case of unfamiliar words, though afterward in Dr. Hodgson's sittings
on my behalf, without any previous indication from either Dr. Hodgson or myself,
the word was spelled almost correctly, namely; as "Hyomi" (p. 391). The mistake
of "Charles" for "Carruthers" (pp. 42*2-423), especially when wo remember that
it was pronounced in the family as "Crothers," as in "brothers," is perfectly
intelligiblo. This remark also is reinforced by the interesting fact that, after writing
the name correctly myself all my life, once in writing my notes on this record I spelled
it "Carthers " and preserved the instance as an illustration of how the name
"Charles " might be given for this uncle.
A most interesting instance of automatic mistake also is Dr. Hodgson's writing
"there" for "here" in my first sitting (p. 309), and repeating it in the revision.
Similar also to those above classified was the printer's mistake in setting up " Miss
Hodgson" for "Dr. Hodgson" after the name "Miss S. " in the previous sentence
(p. 346). Another instance of the same import as the first of these two was the
addition by Dr. Hodgson of the words "Sounds like" before the word "boner"
(p. 327) after the expression " Sounds like bone " had been written once, though the
words '' sounds like " had been used but once by the trance personality. This, of course,
had to be cut out of the detailed record as not a part of the original automatic writing.
I may remark also an interesting automatism of my own which is very frequent.
In writing a word containing the letter " e " I often dot it foran "i." This, however,
I never do except when it is liable to be mistaken by the reader for an " i. " While
writing rapidly I fail to make the loop, and the appearance of the letter is unmistak
ably that of an " i." Now, the interesting part of it is that, although I am thinking
only of "e" at the time, the motor action of the arm is adjusted to the appearance
of the letter in the field of vision, and I discover my mistake only after it has
been committed.
xu.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 241
different in kind from those that come from a regular communicator, but
they expose more evidently than the others the weakness of telepathy
as an explanation of the whole case. They represent the sensibility
of the " machine " to perfectly intelligent conversation on the " other
side," which there is no necessity for our getting, except to dis
credit the hypothesis of telepathy. They are usually clear and intelli
gible statements which we can easily understand as representing a
dramatic play out of our sight, and are in no respect either passive
reflections of telepathic messages or the reproduction of the sitter's
memories. The spiritistic character and pertinence of all this ought
to be evident at a glance, though it could have little or no weight
without prior evidence of personal identity. But when it supple
ments this evidence and does not constitute any intended part of the
process involved in getting that evidence it shatters the telepathic
theory by attributing to it the elasticity of many very different
processes.
Perhaps the same use can be made of Mrs. Piper's deliverances
as she emerges from the trance. But I shall not discuss them at
length, and the reader can study them for himself. They are
especially rich in confusion and automatisms. But the important
fact about them is that they are the only instances in which any
traces of secondary personality in the ordinary conception of the
term can be found. This is a fact of very great significance, since
it represents an abrupt break from the condition in which messages
are easier, clearer, coherent, pertinent, and unassociated with anything
that we know of secondary personality, to the condition in which
messages are very incoherent and the indications of secondary per
sonality are very marked. This ought not to be the case if the main
phenomena were not preferably spiritistic, at least in the perfection
of their representation of that hypothesis.
K
242 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
CHAPTER V.
Difficui.ties and Objections.
The first thing to be said in regard to the difficulties and objections
to the spiritistic theory is that, from the standpoint of my own sittings
alone, there are no serious obstacles to the doctrine. If I had to judge
the case by my own experiments and record alone, I do not see how I
could avoid the conclusion that a future life is absolutely demonstrated
by them The clue even to such difficulties as have to be discussed has
been obtained from sources outside the Piper phenomena, and but for
them I should have nothing to suggest the cautiousness that I hav e
maintained. The evidence for personal identity in this record is so
overwhelming, that when we dismiss fraud from consideration and
reckon the mistakes and confusions in the favour of spiritism instead
of difficulties and objections, we should not naturally suspect telepathy
as the most probable hypothesis in the case. The spectre which that
doctrine raises is of the Society's own making in phenomena wholly
outside the field I am considering here, and obtains its cogency
far more from our mentul habits than from the facts of this
record. If the mistakes and confusions preponderated, the case
might not be so cogent ; at least it would not appear so to the
average mind, though the scientist might well suspect whether
that might not be the proper result to be expected, considering
the abnormal conditions of all sorts under which work of this kind has
to be done. But astonishing as it must be to any one who would
a priori suppose that difficulties in communication would be insuper
able, even on the assumption that anything like a spirit existed, the
mistakes and confusions bear no suspicious proportion to the clear
and significant truths, even in the communication of the most
complex incidents, and consequently they not only become subordinated
to the conclusion which is necessary to explain the pertinent matter,
but also serve the spiritistic view by virtue of the limitations which they
suggest in a hypothesis that these limitations contradict. To all who
are not perfectly familiar with these phenomena and who ignore the
fact that obstacles to any form of communication must he admitted,
and this to a larger extent for spiritism than for telepathy—to all these
the imperfections of the messages and the positive errors will appear a
difficult}'. But I think the true scientist, whatever his attitude
toward this subject, would expect error and confusion, even on the
supposition of existing spirits, and might expect them to an extent
XLI.] Observationa of Certain Trance Phenomena. 243
that would exclude the possibility of any proof whatever of their
existence.i The assumption, of course, would be a priori and worth
less in case experience or facts proved it false, but it is the most natural
one to make until the evidence at least modifies it.
It will be apparent, therefore, after what has been already said on
the subject of mistakes and confusions, why I treat their significance
as the reverse of an obstacle to spiritism. Hence such suspense of
' As an illustration of what the scientist ought most naturally to expect in
alleged communications from discarnate spirits I may be permitted by the
Kantian idealist to quote that Corypheean authority in modern philosophy. He had
frankly and candidly faced the issue in problems of this sort and actually outlined the
whole method of psychical research a hundred years before any practical attempt was
made to apply it. It was the experience of Immanuel Swedenborg that prompted
him to do so. The letter to Fratilein von Knobloch in 17o8 shows how seriously he
considered Swedenliorg's phenomena, though we should to-day discriminate between
various types of them more sharply than Kant may have done. But Kant recognised
very clearly that any communications purporting to come from a transcendental and
discarnate consciousness, if in any respect genuine, must contend with patho'ogical
conditions, and he represented theso conditions as necessarily more abnormal than
experience has shown them to be. Let me quote Dr. Edward Caird's account of
Kant's doctrine, especially as there is no evidence in our list of membership that Dr.
Caird is influenced in his statement of the problem by any preconceptions that
our work might have produced, and yet no clearer statement of the general
problem could be imagined. In his "Critical Philosophy of Kant " (Vol. I.,
p. 150), after imagining the possibility that there is a world of spiritual
consciousness which may affect our moral consciousness in some way, Dr. Caird
says, representing the conception which Kant took: " The only difficulty that remains
unexplained is, how we are to reconcile the existence of such a spiritual community
with the fact that we are so seldom conscious of it. For the spiritual world is present
to man, if at all, only in occas onal glimpses, which, besides, have often a somewhat
uncertain and even irrational character. This, however, is already explained by what
has lx'en said of the nature of the consciousness of man as contrasted with that of
purely spiritual beings. For what we experience as spirits will not naturally enter
into that consciousness which we have of ourselves as men ; or if it does so enter at
all, it will only bo under abnormal conditions, and even then the intimations from the
epirit world will necessarily take the form of the consciousness into which they
intrude. Spiritual realities will l,e pictured as objects and events in the natural
world, and all the imperfections of the medium will affect the vision. For men in
general such perceptions will have somethingof the character of disease ; and if there
are a few exceptional individuals who are so constituted as to be continuously con
scious oftpiritual influences, their minds will be so much drawn out of proper balance
;w- to the things i f this world by the confusing presence of another, that they will
often be regarded by other men as insane. In this way it only needs a little inge-
nu ty to explain all the facts of ghost-seeing in accordance with our primary assump
tion as to the relations of the two worlds. ' For metaphysical hypotheses have
wonderful pliancy, and it would show a great want of ingenuity not to be able to
adapt thin hypothesis to every story of supernatural visitations, and that without
taking trouble to investigate its truth, which in many cases would be impos
sible, and in yet more would be discourteous, to attempt.'" (Cf. Kant's "Traiime
eimsGeistersehers," pp. 33C-349, Hartenstein's edition. St e also Goerwitz' transla
tion of the same. Preface, pp. i.-xi., and Introduction, pp. 1-33.) With such » view as
this before us our problem is simply one in which the evidence for personal identity must
be sufficient to overcome thj objections from telepathy, and mistakes and confusions
will stand in favour of a spiritistic hypothesis. [(./. Appendix VII., p. 643.]
B 2
244 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
judgment as I have to entertain in the phenomena of this record must
come from outside sources.
The first objection which I have to meet is one that is constantly
advanced by scientific men, or by men who are everywhere presumed
to be such. It is not an objection from the standpoint of the intelli
gent psychical researcher, nor from that of this record, which deals
exclusively with the problem of personal identity, but it is the objec
tion of those who wholly misunderstand the nature of the primary
question at issue. Nevertheless it must be stated and met. It is that
spiritism cannot be accepted or proved until we know something about
the conditions of life in the transcendental world alleged as a conse
quence of these experiments and other similar phenomena. This
demand is made by two classes of minds. There is first the average
person who is interested in theform of this life rather than the fact of
it, not having any doubt about the fact, or any appreciation of the
materialistic doctrine which makes any such life extremely doubtful.
Then there is the scientific ( ? ) mind which follows in the wake of this
false idea of the common mind, and though it is not infected with the
same morbid interest in either the fact of survival or the kind of life
it promises, is nevertheless possessed of the same preconceptions of
what the problem is. The objection, therefore, must be considered
very carefully, and it can be viewed from two wholly different concep
tions of the term "proof" as bearing both upon the problem of personal
identity and upon that of the conditions of life in a transcendental
existence.
The first conception of " proof " to be noticed is that of any process
by which certitude of conviction or knowledge is obtained in the mind
of the person who acquires the conviction. This may be effected in
two ways: (1) By the ratiocinative process, or the syllogism ; and (2)
By personal experience, insight, perception, or realisation in conscious
ness. Ultimately this latter process is the expression and source of
the " proof " we are considering ; for in all cases in which reasoning
can figure as producing personal conviction the function of immediate
apprehension is involved in the appreciation of the cogency of the
reasoning itself. The subject of the conviction must appreciate the
identity of the conceptions with which the ratiocinative process deals,
so that personal realisation in consciousness is the first and the last
criterion of the " proof " in question.
But for a man to demand this form of " proof " from me or from
the Society is essentially unscientific and unreasonable, because by its
very nature it can be obtained by no one except the man who asks it.
He asks us to produce a personal experience for him which involves
killing him to get it. He wants to be relieved of responsibility for his
convictions and yet insists on a criterion which necessarily implies
xLI.] Observations of Certain 'Trance Phenomena. 245
that responsibility. It is the duty of the man who makes this demand
to do his own proving in the conception of the case defined. This form
of " proof " cannot be supplied by any one except the subject, even in
present life, to say nothing of any supposed transcendental world.
I shall not deny any man the right to set up so high a standard for
the determination of his own personal convictions, as I not only admit
that right, but also admit that it is not safe for most persons, without
the most thorough acquaintance with scientific methods, to accept any
other standard than personal experience, though this may be exposed
to fallibility. Our sanity depends upon putting the standard of con
viction very high. But we must not confuse this right or duty with
scientific method. We cannot make our personal conversion the
criterion of truth or the measure of what is meant by scientific
method. It may be our only personal defence against illusion, but
science does not have to guarantee any man against the abuses of
his own judgment. It supplies data and asks for the best available
hypothesis to explain them. The individual may be as rigid as he
pleases in the exaction of evidence, but he must not make his personal
conviction any duty of mine before I have either convinced myself or
satisfied the demands of scientific method as it is understood in all the
sciences.
Hence the second form of " proof " is precisely this method. It
simply collects facts under suitable conditions for the determination
of rational hypotheses between which we have to choose. The
" proof " in this case still leaves the responsibility for belief in the
subject of it, but it permits the data to be furnished by some one
else, and the issue stated so that the question is merely whether the
facts come under an old, or require a new hypothesis. It is simply
Inductive Method, as usually defined, and determines the degree of
probability in proportion to the application of the Canon of Agree
ment, or that of Difference. I shall assume that the reader is familiar
with this. I am concerned only in making clear that men shall not
demand of this or any other work in the determination of truth that
it shall employ any other means than the facts of present experience
to solve any of its problems. They had better remain unsolved, if we
are to leave any and every individual to determine the standard of
science by his mere " will to believe or disbelieve," valuable as
this is for security against the illusions to which we may be
exposed in new inquiries. Still, old doctrines are not so sacred
or so well founded by virtue of mere age or habit as always to
escape the illusions of another type that may be as dangerous
as any against which we try to protect ourselves. Consequently,
" proof " in scientific parlance is the presentation and production of
present facts that enable us to calculate the probabilities of the course
24G [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
of nature, whether every person is able to see them or not. But it
does not impose any impossibilities. It does not require us to supplant
the process of individual experience, nor does it require us to make
the realisation in consciousness of any fact the test of all rationality.
It suffices if it can unify experience in terms of probabilities when it
can do no more.
Now, in the application of this method to the phenomena of
spiritualism our problem is simply to collect the facts and try
hypotheses, no matter whither they lead. Now, when it comes to
collecting facts or statements purporting to represent a transcendental
world we must remember that there are two wholly distinct problems
involved which ought not to be confused. The first is the existence
of such a world, and the second is the conditions that characterise it.
What will "prove" or render possible or probable the first will or may
leave the second untouched. Taken in the special form of spiritism
the two problems are (1) the existence of spirits, and (2) their mode of
life. Unfortunately it seems that the majority of mankind, scientific
and unscientific alike, have such a morbid interest in the latter ques
tion that they wholly ignore both the place which it should have in
the truly scientific mind and the necessary insolubility of the problem
in any such terms as they have been accustomed to represent their
knowledge. Our chief complaint against the average spiritualist is
that he assumes to know and describe the conditions of a life for
which we have no experience or immediate data to make it intelligible.
It ill becomes the scientific man to put himself on the level of the
people that he affects to despise. But he does so when he asserts or
assumes that we must know the conditions of a transcendental life
before we can accept it as a fact. All our intelligible knowledge is
represented by some form of sensory, or at least terrestrial experience.
We cannot suppose any sensory phenomena in a discarnate soul with
its loss of the very conditions of such, though, if we knew more
than we do, we might find other means of getting impressions. But
this assumption is too precarious to build an hypothesis upon it.
Whatever the experiences of a discarnate soul, supposing it a fact,
we have no means in the media of our scientific knowledge to
determine how we shall think them. It would require the presence
of a spiritual body even to suggest anything analogous to our
sensory impressions. But a surviving soul, assuming that it has any
consciousness of its past, could very well express or think in terms of
its terrestrial life, and it would have to do so if there were any possi
bility of proving this survival. Hence the problem of personal
identity is the first question to be settled. What claims to be a
spirit must be made to prove its veracity by proving its personal
identity, and it can do this only by narrating its own terrestrial history
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 247
in a way to break the theory of telepathy. The facts also must be
verifiable. But when it has established its veracity, it does not follow
that we are to accept any statements regarding transcendental
conditions of life as intelligible. Veracity and intelligibility are not
convertible. We may accept the veracity of a spirit after its identity
has been proved, and yet, without rejecting the truth of its statements
about spirit life, refuse to treat them as in any way important or
intelligible for us. Statements about a discarnate life are, of course,
worthless as evidence, because they are unverifiable, and even if
veracious are in addition not necessarily intelligible. It is thus strange
that men pretending to be scientific express their willingness to be con
verted to spiritism, if we shall only tell them what the conditions
of life are in which a disembodied soul lives. They avow their
readiness to accept a doctrine on both unverifiable and unintelligible
evidence. I for one refuse to do this. I have no interest in the
conditions of such existence until I get there, unless they can be
made intelligible to me. I refuse to be drawn aside from the only
rational problem of science, which is personal identity, because within
that field the facts, being reminiscences, may be both verifiable and
intelligible. This limitation of the problem may make it insoluble
in the estimation of some people. So be it ; nevertheless, I admit no
problem as prior to that of identity, and I consider any demand for
unverifiable data and statements to involve a point of view worthy
only of those whose follies and fraud have made it all but impossible
to discuss a hereafter with patience or respect. The man who sets up
for a scientist should be the last to sympathise with such a position, and
should know both his method and the nature of the problem sufficiently
to escape illusions on so fundamental a question. Spiritualism ought
not to have a rival in the follies of the scientist who merely shelters
himself under the shadow of a great authority without intelligence, and
thus converts his own standard into credulity.
I have said nothing of suggestion as a difficulty in the case, because
I do not consider it a factor in the results worth examination. There
are a few isolated instances, to which I have called attention in my
notes and remarks as occasion required, in which suggestion is a con
ceivable explanation. But these are too few to allow them any weight
in the whole, which the reader can easily see is unaffected by such
suspicions. Were any large number of specific incidents influenced
by my questions or statements the criticism might be considered. But
they are two infrequent to justify the waste of time and space in their
examination.
I could, however, construct an ingenious theory of suggestion out
of certain cases by taking them in connection with later messages and
thus indicate a source of impeachment. Thus I might say that my
248 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
remark made in the letter sent to Dr. Hodgson and read to the hand
on February 22nd, 1899 (p. 400), regarding my aunt Nannie's care of
us is the suggestion of that name and allusion to her keeping house for
father after my mother's death, made on June 1st, 1899 (p. 449). I
might also suppose that my request to finish the name begun with the
letter "F" on December 27th, 1898 (p. 338), was the source of the
" guess " at " FRAD " which I identified as Frank, but which could as
well be taken for a jump at Fred, which is actually given later where
Francis was mentioned, on May 29th, 1899 (p. 425). But when such
sporadic instances are examined they will appear as mere quibbling in
comparison with the vast majority of cases that are free from all
suspicion in this respect. Hence I shall not waste any time discussing
such ingenious speculations that are mere evasions of the pertinence
attaching to more evidential incidents.
The next objection that is to be met is one that is perhaps more
general than any other. It is the triviality of the incidents com
municated and the poverty of the life, or arrested development, which
they are supposed to indicate. The reply to this charge, however, is
sufficiently clear, both in my refusal to recognise the assumption that
the facts are any indication of the condition of the soul, and in my
remarks on the Experiments in the Identification of Personality (pp.
537-623). We saw in these experiments that living, and presumably
rational men choose the most trivial incidents for the purpose of
identification, and that we are equally bound to reflect on their sanity,
or express repugnance to their conditions of life, when we are tempted
to sneer at the occupations and mental status of spirits. No idea of the
persons can be formed in those experiments from the character of their
messages. They naturally selected the incidents which association
recalled for establishing identity, and these were necessarily trivial.
But what has been said of the problem of psychical research, and of
the conditions of communication in any case ought to show that we
have no right to judge of the phenomena by any other standard than
that of personal identity, no matter what theory we have to account
for them. If the mental conditions necessary for communication are
possibly abnormal, as might be most natural, though this is not
apparent in the case of Imperator and Rector, for reasons of experience
presumably, there would be an additional reason for the triviality of
the messages and the confusion which the unscientific mind misjudges.
Hut whether such conditions exist or not, the only incidents that
should influence any man who can lay the slightest claim to a scien
tific comprehension of the problem will be those which cannot be
duplicated in any living consciousness, or that at least are not common
experiences. Tiivial facts are the only thing that will satisfy these
conditions.
XLl.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 24J)
It would be a far more pertinent query to ask why telepathy should
thus limit itself to trivial incidents than to raise the question regarding
spirits. The presumably easy access of this power to the sitter's and
others' memories, the supposed intelligence of the process in connection
with its adjunct, secondary personality, and discrimination between
the relevant and irrelevant matter, and the absence of all reason to
suppose that telepathy must duplicate the mental conditions apparent
on the " other side " for communicating, ought to qualify it for the
reproduction of the important matter that we should most naturally
expect of normal personality. A process presumably so intelligent
ought to produce what is wanted and not to betray the limitations so-
apparent in the results.
I must summarise several important facts that may be considered
as a reply to the accusation of triviality in the messages. The}- are
partly a denial and partly a justification of the triviality. I state
them briefly. (1) The facts are not all trivial. Many of them are
quite worthy of the best intelligence, even when not attempting to
establish personal identity. (Cf. incidents of conversations on spirit
return, pp. 30-34, religious remarks, pp. 401,456, and hymn incident,
p. 389.) (2) Many of the trivial incidents were in response to my
own questions and involved the satisfaction of my own demands. The
irrationality must be on my part. (3) Many of those that were
spontaneously trivial follow upon an explanation to the communicator
of what he is to do, and he is told to remind me of little things in his
life. (4) The probable abnormal condition of the communicator's
mind in the act of communicating, and the difficulties of the act.
The last consideration is a most important one and the evidences
that it is a fact must be enumerated. (1) That there must be
difficulties in the way of communicating is an a priori necessity in the
case whether we choose to admit the existence of spirits or not. Any
world of energy transcending sense must yield a difficulty in connecting
it with sensory experience, no matter what we conceive that world to
be. (2) The alternation of communicators which ought not to occur on
the telepathic theory. (3) The character of the communications at
the point of change from one communicator to another. (4) The
confused and fragmentary character of many of the messages. (5)
The absolute failure and inability of some communicators to com
municate although they should be as naturally expected as those who
do appear. (6) The statements of the communicators themselves (Cf.
pp. 643-645, 428, 449) both in regard to their confused state of mind
when communicating and their clearer consciousness when not com
municating. (7) The analogies of hypnosis and secondary personality,
in respect both of the contents of the messages and the appearance of
a disturbed memory.
250 [part
H. Hyxlop, Ph.D.
In reference to the matter of triviality the student will appreciate
the rationality of it much better if he will consult those passages and
incidental remarks of the chief communicator which reflect his
conscious understanding of my purpose. This only gradually dawned
upon him and as it was explained to him, so to speak, first on the
" other side " apparently, and then by Dr. Hodgson in the first of his
sittings on my behalf. As a good illustration of the appreciation
shown in attempting to satisfy my demands compare the answer to my
request on June 6th (p. 470, Cf. also pp. 434, 460). One special state
ment is worth quoting, as it intelligently recognises in a spontaneout
way both my object and the triviality of the fact mentioned,
thus anticipating and answering the very objection under consideration.
On June 8th (p. 490) my father, referring to my stepmother, asked
me : " Will you ask her about the paper knife, not because I care for
so trifling a thing, only as a test for you."
It would appear, therefore, that I entertain no objections to the
spiritistic interpretation of the case. While this is true in regard to
my own sittings ; while I should be inclined to treat them as conclu
sive, if I had not studied the subject in its wider phases and if I could
regard the phenomena as quite as well isolated as any physical
phenomena obtained under similar conditions of exclusion, yet I shall
not refuse to admit the existence of problems which require some
suspense of judgment regarding spiritism, strong as it may seem to be
on the surface of such facts as are here recorded. But nevertheless
the fact is that I have to go wholly outside of my own sittings and
record for difficulties and objections of any sort, and these are of
various degrees of weight, some of them being easily answered, as I
think, and some of them too well supported by the facts of secondary
personality to be dismissed without careful consideration, even if we do
not regard them as really applicable to the Piper case.
Now as nry own spiritistic preferences were not determined by my
experiments alone and by the exclusion of other phenomena of like
import, on the surface at least, but were simply the " straw that broke
the camel's back" after studying Dr. Hodgson's Report, which brought
the issue very sharply to view and which left me without any satisfac
tory reply to his position ; as it was the total record of the Society's
work, supplemented by my experiments, that disturbed my allegiance
to materialism ; so it is the whole field of alleged spiritistic phenomena,
and especially the whole of the Piper case as previously published, that
I felt obliged to reckon with before being too sure of the conclusion
which is so strongly supported by my own sittings. Consequently, as I
understand the problem, there are two general sources of difficulty
and objection which are both respectable and deserving of careful
XIX] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 251
consideration. They are> first, the earlier reports on the Piper
phenomena, and, second, the character of certain alleged spiritistic
phenomena which suggest very large capacities for secondary person
ality, to say nothing of a large field of genuinely supernormal facts
which cannot be rightly termed spiritistic for the lack of traces in them
of evidence for personal identity.
Taking the Phinuit regime in the Piper case we have certain
phenomena which suggest caution in the acceptance of the spiritistic
theory, since they indicated the identityof living persons rather than that
of the deceased. They are those experiments in which Phinuit would
undertake to furnish the names and incidents in the lives of persons
intimately connected with some old rag or trinket of whose ownership
and history the sitter might be entirely ignorant. Phinuit also did not
seem to care whether the person represented in the ownership of such
articles was living or dead. (Cf. Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 458, 525,
535-6, 537 and 584 ; Vol. VIII., pp. 20-27, 101-3, 106, 109, 115,
129, 140-1, 145, 154-5, 160-6.) There is some system in obtaining
communications with your friends, and, through them, in calling up a
relative, since we can imagine some form of telepathic influence on a
spirit to attract it, though this conception is tenuous enough to frighten
us in applying our standards of belief. If we could suppose the possi
bility of our friends being about us in a world which simply prevents
their communicating with us except under unusual and abnormal con
ditions we can conceive why we establish rapport with them by going
to a medium. This supposition, however, is the question at issue, or if
not the question at issue, is still as precarious as any we can imagine.
But when it comes to tapping any past consciousness that you please
and about which you know nothing, simply by putting some old rag in
the hand of a medium, the thing becomes so incomprehensible, if not
preposterous, at least to me, as to stagger anything but credulity. I
do not dispute the possibility of explaining such phenomena on the
spiritistic hypothesis, if that is once secured, as we are too ignorant of
the laws of any supposed transcendental world to say what discarnate
spirits can or cannot do, if it is once granted that they exist. But the
problem is not one of explanation merely. It is also one of evidence,
and the existence of spirits must be proved before utilising them for pur
poses of explanation, and as the phenomena so often indicate absolutely
no traces of deceased personal identity we find them to be difficulties in
the way of accepting spiritism. But we do not dispose of the marvellous
nature of the thing by refusing to recognise it as spiritistic. It is even
as incomprehensible on any other view. It would not help matters to
call such performances clairvoyance with the intention of excluding
spirits from account—for that alleged process, if true, is far more
unintelligible than the assumed agency of spirits. Spirits at least have
252 [part
J. H. Hyslol), Ph.D.
this advantage, that they represent a consciousness with some known
powers conceivably enlarged in a transcendental world, where possibly
telepathy, a sporadic fact with the living, might be the normal mode
of communication and might immensely extend their resources for the
acquisition of knowledge, especially when we look at the case from the
idealist's doctrine of space. But clairvoyance and telepathy as ascribed
to incarnate minds, are absolutely unknown in their mode of action,
and are little more than names for facts which require a cause
and which cannot be explained by any agency that science ordinarily
recognises. By some extraordinary hypothesis, for which there is some
evidence, but not enough to dogmatise upon, or upon which to ask the
sympathy of scientific minds not thoroughly acquainted with the whole
problem, I admit that we could give a spiritistic.- explanation to such
phenomena as I have alluded to, and this might he done as Hartmann
actually does it, by a sort of monistic pantheism which does not require
us to take space into account in tapping the infinite. I have already
said that I do not regard the pantheistic view as in any respect incon
sistent with spiritism in its fundamental postulate, namely, that the
stream of consciousness which passes for a person in this life and which
must be as much an emanation of the absolute now as after death, may
still survive and have its memory as at present. Or telepathy once
granted for any world whatsoever, it might also be qualified to secure the
right person connected with the trinket in any number of supposable
ways, even on the assumption that as persons we are thoroughly indivi
duated, as the atomic theory would require. But in the absence of any
knowledge that spirits exist at all, the supposition of finding any one
we please in this easy manner is so extraordinary that we should
naturally ask whether the attitude of agnosticism is not safer than
spiritism. I confess that any attempt to explain such phenomena
without spiritism only makes matters worse Hence I can but recog
nise agnosticism, which is simply the attitude of caution and insistence
on the most rigid canons of evidence, as the only rational alternative to
spiritism, if we are to give such phenomena any importance at all.
But it is right here that a very significant objection can be raised
against the recognition of these phenomena as indicative of anything
in the supernormal field. The sceptic may refuse to admit that they
are sufficient in quantity and quality to invite any other explanation
than chance and guessing. Some of the real or apparent successes in
the recorded experiments of the kind mentioned might be less sugges
tive after these suppositions were applied to them, so that we may not
resort to the supernormal in any shape. But this is to cut them off
completely from use as objections to spiritism in the case of the Piper
record where chance and guessing are pre-empted at the outset. The
spiritistic theory in this instance will become overwhelming the
xLI] Observations of Certain Travce Phenomena. 253
moment that we repudiate the value and significance of the coin
cidences in the experiments under consideration as furnishing
objections. I am not able, however, to agree in discarding their
value. Some of the incidents should have to be scrutinised with
chance and guessing in view, and also perhaps illusions of identity on
the part of the person who recognised them. They were, however, not
only careful experiments, but contain, when taken as a whole, and
more especially in certain important instances, coincidences with specific
contents in too many cases to dismiss them as accidents. There
are in them clear instances of supernormally acquired knowledge,
and so must be retained either to create difficulties for spiritism
or to indicate the existence of certain problems in it which we
should like to see solved before committing ourselves unreservedly to
it. The sceptic, however, will remove the objection to spiritism
founded upon them, if he discredits their supernormal value. On the
other hand, I see no hope of getting any leverage with which to
begin their explanation until the existence of discarnate souls is
admitted, though the facts indicating something supernormal are no
evidence of the spiritistic theory. Hence it will be apparent why I
do not intend to treat the phenomena as in any way insuperably
opposed to the belief in spirits. They are difficulties in the theory, not
against it.
But there is one class of phenomena in these experiments referred
to as suggesting difficulties that perhaps raise the strongest objection
which we have to meet. They are the instances in which Phinuit
apparently, not certainly, read the minds of certain persons at a
distance, merely by having a trinket of some sort in Mrs. Piper's hand
and that belonged to the person whose mind was supposedly read.
(Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 139-159 ; see also references above, p. 126.)
This was done in some cases in which the medium had no knowledge
of the owner of the article, nor did the sitter, Dr. Hodgson. There is
no pretence of spirit communication in the contents of the messages,
as they actually represent the present or past consciousness of living
persons, and show no traces of any other personal identity. The facts
represented largely physical actions which the person from whom they
were presumably obtained were performing at the time or had
performed shortly before. Now there is no satisfactory evidence in
such phenomena of the existence of spirits. If you have once proved
their existence you are justified in admitting them as the possible,
perhaps the most probable, explanation of such facts, but the incidents
are no evidence of that hypothesis in so far as it is affected or determined
by the problem of personal identity, and it is this last issue that I
maintain must be satisfied first. Consequently, without prior proof of
identity we must, at least, feel charitable for telepathy, or something
254 [part
J. H. Hyslap, Ph.D.
like it, and this on a vast scale. Now just in proportion as we feel
obliged to accept telepathy in these and other coincidences transcending
time and spice limitations in the mind of the sitter, apparently hunting
up some unknown person from whom to extract the information, to the
same extent we must admit the possibility that telepathy might account
for the reproduction of personal identity in the facts pertaining to
those who have died. This has always been the reasoning that held me
to scepticism regarding the spirit theory, and I know that Dr. Hodgson
was restrained by the same fact from his conclusions for a long time.
I suspect too that it was this circumstance which induced his effort to
see whether the facts made it more probable that Phinuit was a
discarnate spirit than that he should be merely the secondary
personality of Mrs. Piper, representing her telepathic and clairvoyant
powers. But legitimate as this may be, we cannot escape the duty to
make the spiritistic theory good against real or apparent objections of
this sort.
But I do not regard the difficulty here raised as at all an insuper
able one. I think it possible to explain the phenomena on the
spiritistic theory, if once assumed, though the evidence for it has to be
very different. That evidence is much stronger to-day than it was
when the first two reports were published on the Piper case, and adds
its weight to the argument for a spiritistic interpretation of the
phenomena under consideration. But independently of this later
evidence there are two resources for limiting the importance of the
objection advanced. There is first the elastic and indefinite meaning
of the terms clairvoyance and telepathy. I have already shown that
they are mere names for an unknown cause. They are convenient
weapons for scepticism, and serve a most useful purpose in keeping
the standard of evidence as high as possible, but they are not in
truth explanations of any sort. We get into the habit of assuming
a priori that they mean necessarily processes between living minds on
the ground that the evidence does not prove spirits, and we forget
wholly that we are so ignorant of the real modus operandi in the case
that it does not occur to us that possibly the agency intermediating
the whole effect may be spirits. I do not advance this supposition as
probable, and if I thought the mere suggestion of it was calculated to
diminish the stringency of the canons of evidence I should be sorry
to have mentioned it. But it is legitimate to remark the limitations
of the appeal to telepathy, which rather creates than solves problems.
The second reply is based upon the possible spiritistic nature of
Phinuit. If we shout telepathy we may well question the spirit reality
of Phinuit, but we may in this way shut our eyes to facts which
telepathy cannot explain, but which spiritism may cover and with
them the other incidents in question. We may therefore turn the
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 255
problem completely around and ask whether the facts on the whole do
not make it more probable than not that Phinuit was a discarnate
spirit, and by this circumstance unravel the mystery about his per
formances. This hypothesis must not be hastily made, nor the
canon of evidence be parted from in the attempt, but it is legitimate
as a possible alternative to the explicable meaning of telepathy and
clairvoyance when these are nothing more than appeals to an infinite
of which we know nothing. Now I must say that, taking the whole
Phinuit performances under careful scrutiny, the spiritistic theory to
account for him is a perfectly rational one. I do not say that it is
proved or even the most probable one, but that it is a rational
possibility, and especially in the light of what the Piper phenomena
have finally exhibited. In spite of his shortcomings and the total
failure to establish his personal identity, the independence of his
intelligence, the consistency of his claim that he was a spirit and
obtained all his information from spirits, the mention of correct French,
names, which Mrs. Piper could hardly have ever heard, except on the
assumption of fraud, and more especially the mass of evidence of
identity of other persons than himself, and all the difficulties of
telepathic hypothesis which I have mentioned as inherent in it—all
these are strongly suggestive that he was what he claimed to be, and
this once granted, the phenomena which seem to give difficulty become
either explicable on the spirit theory, or a subordinate problem under
it. To say the least, this is a possible alternative, rendered somewhat
strong by the array of facts just mentioned, and as long as this is the
case we are not forced to accept telepathy either as an explanation of
the phenomena or as an unequivocal objection to spiritism. Neverthe
less, though I regard the difficulty as one that is not against spiritism,
but in it, I consider it an obligation to be extremely cautious in
preferring the spiritistic theory against the possible difficulties,
profound or superficial, as the case may be, that may be raised by the
prudent sceptic on the ground of achievements that are not evidence of
personal identity in any discarnate spirit, but that are so apparently
amenable to the extended telepathy which is here assumed to be the
rival of spiritism. But whatever difficulties the phenomena considered
may have suggested in the old Phinuit rfyime, when his identity could
not be established, and when the identity of others was less clear than
in the later regime, they are less serious in the present conditions of
the case, though we know nothing about the identity of Imperator and
Rector. The dramatic play of personality which in no case can be
explained by telepathy, and the prevention of interference and
confusion from various communicators, with greater accompanying
clearness in the messages and their illustration of personal identity,
are so suggestive of spiritism as to diminish the original importance
256 [part
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
of the various difficulties in the Phinuit regime and to give the
spiritistic theory the preference.
One of the circumstances which at least seem to favor telepathy in
the estimation of some people, or to suggest a suspicion in its favor, is
the fact that it is almost uniformly your friends who appear as the
communicators in these experiments, and hence represent what is most
likely in the sitter's memory. Were the sitters called upon to identify
persons of whose lives they knew nothing, and were they as successful
in this as in those they do identify, the telepathic theory would have
such an independence of the sitter's memory that it would make the
alternative theory more plausible. But the general correlation between
the communicator and the memory of the sitter is a suspicious fact in
some minds, inasmuch as it makes the majority of the incidents on
which the argument rests amenable to telepathy, at least as the safest
precaution against hasty conclusions. But I regard the objection as
sufficiently refuted by two facts—first, that such unknown persons have
,often communicated incidents which satisfy the criterion of personal
identity, at least to the extent necessary to meet the difficulty con
sidered (Proceeding!, Vol. XIII., pp. 37:2-383), and, second, that
incidents are often given which are unknown to the sitter, and which
would have to be acquired, on the telepathic theory, in the same way
us when the communicator is unknown to the sitter, namely, by a selec
tion from the memory of some living person unknown to the medium
or unknown to the sitter. But it is a very singular and inconceivable
power to give it two such infinite capacities, one to get the right
incident independently of the sitter's memory, and the other both the
right person deceased and the right fact to represent his identity, both
unknown to the sitter, to say nothing of the facts stated that evidently
belong to no living person at all, and have yet their probabilities without
verification, both intrinsically and on the veracity of the communica
tions generally. The dramatic play of personality would be against the
marvellous selective power of telepathy, or create a suspicion against it
at least, even if all the facts belonged to the subliminal of the sitter.
I am not able to admit that the fact of communications almost
exclusively from friends specially favours telepathy. We know too
little of the laws and conditions of nature and of telepathy to assume
any such theory about this matter. There is one thing, however, that
we do know from experience with the Piper phenomena, and this is
that the task of identifying any stranger to the sitter would be an
infinitely more difficult one than with the known communicators when
we have to contend with so much scepticism in regard to those that
we do identify as our friends. I doubt whether I could be induced
to prefer the spiritistic theory of any verifiable facts in the life of a
stranger whose errors were greater than his successes in communication.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 257
The fragmentary nature of the messages, the capricious choice
of incidents from the standpoint of the sitter, the probability that we
could not even find the persons living who could verify the incidents
when given, and the possibility that there are influences that render it
more difficult for strangers to communicate rather make it fortunate
for scientific results that we do not have such data to deal with in any
quantity, no matter what theory we adopt in the case. Now, if we
examine the facts in the record we shall find interesting corroboration
of what I have said regarding the possible influences in favour of com
munications from friends. If the reader will study carefully the
sittings of Dr. Hodgson held for me he will observe a most interesting
psychological fact that tells against telepathv and indicates a possible
explanation of the natural selection of friends in communications. In
these sittings my father, who is the communicator, appears to get
tired, so to speak, of communicating, and asks to be excused, a thing
that never occurred in my sittings except to rest a few minutes, as ic
were. In my last sitting even this did not occur. I held the attention
by relaxing the scientific rigidity of silence, and by the demand that he
should tell his own story, and employed his interest and attention
so strongly that he evidently felt no discomfort or inconvenience
under the " conditions." Here we have the natural effect of intense
interest and attention to render the communication more sustained
and clear, a perfectly natural phenomenon, and perhaps also the personal
interest of the communicator in the sitter as the most important
influence affecting the process. But how could this interest be
maintained in a stranger ? We know in actual life it is far more
difficult to control the interest of strangers in conversation with us
than that of friends. This is especially true if the stranger is asked
to do something important in a few minutes or seconds to establish his
identity ! Just try this once. It is hard enough to sit down and
select incidents rationally or irrationally with reference to secure identi
fication, as my experiments on this matter showed, even when we have
friends to deal with, and a stranger has a practically impossible task
to perform, as the necessary point de rep&re for memory and association
to work upon is lacking in his case, and in addition the influence of
intense interest and attention to accomplish the desired result, as is
so well illustrated in the comparison of Dr. Hodgson's sittings with
mine generally, and my last with the others, as well as with his.
Moreover, a single remark also regarding telepathy will suffice to
dismiss the distinction that we may be tempted to draw between
friends and strangers. If we are to assume the extension of telepathy
in any case we have no rational reason for using the fact that friends
are usually the communicators in favor of telepathy, because living
strangers to both medium and sitter ought to offer no special difficulties
s
258 [part
J. H. HyOop, Ph.D.
on the telepathic theory to the reproduction of memories of these
strangers, so that the present discrimination between friends and
strangers cannot be based on the greater facility of securing messages
in one case than the other, but on the more naturally spiritistic nature
of the phenomena. Nor will it help to say that the unwillingness to
communicate with Dr. Hodgson is an indication of the fact that the
messages were obtained telepathicall)' from me in New York, and were
thus more difficult and exhausting to secure, as this feature did not
show itself in my sittings where many messages had to be obtained
from other memories, on that supposition, than my own (Cf. p. 132).
Moreover, the communications from my cousin Robert McClellan,
which could have been very numerous if drawn from my own memory,
were conceived from the standpoint of his own memory and attempt to
identify himself to his wife. Besides it would have been more difficult
for him even in life to remember much about me than for me to recall
incidents in connection with him, as he was both much older than I
am and we had too little to do with each other to fix many things
in his recollection distinctly in relation to me. I have a great many
recollections of him or in relation to him that he would not associate
with me. The reason for this is connected with his father, my uncle
James McClellan, on whose place my cousin lived after his father's
death. I always delighted as a boy to visit the place for its proximity
to the railway, where I could constantly see the trains passing. I had
seldom seen him also, for the last twenty years, and little occurred
on such occasions that could be remembered distinctly, as they were
usually a night's social visit. Only the political speech to which
I alluded (p. 429) was either likely to be recalled in relation to
me or would have had any value as evidence for personal identity
from my point of view, though the facts in my memory, sub
liminal or otherwise, are numerous enough for telepathy to have
drawn more exhaustively upon them than it did. Hence it is signifi
cant that, in spite of his relation to me, the communications from him
are conceived in strict accordance with what we should naturally
expect in the ordinary laws of memory, and as if from a stranger
whose chief interest was in his more immediate relatives and recollec
tions. Take, for instance, his reference to my brother Robert, which
shows a solicitude in him that was natural, but which I did not know-
was anything special until I learned in the West that he had taken
particular interest in this brother for reasons that I cannot publish.
Hence I refuse to accept the assumption that communications from
friends are more favorable to telepathy than to spiritism. The
contrary may well be the case.
There is another difficulty which presents itself to nearly every
student of these phenomena. It is the amazingly incomprehensible
xLL] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 259
conditions of existence and employment that are represented in some of
the communications. This difficulty does not appear in my own
record, and hence were I dealing with that alone I should not have to
consider any such objections. There is not a trace in my sittings
of anything indicating the conditions of existence beyond the grave.
I have to look elsewhere in the case as a whole to encounter
difficulties of this sort. For instance, in one record we are told that
the soul has an " astral facsimile of the material body." (Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., p. 301.) I have commented on this previously (p.
225). Frequent allusions are made to breathing and functions that
are natural only in the present existence, according to our physiological
suppositions ; calling for old playthings; statement that a child is just
beginning its letters, etc. Such things are not general, but they are
frequent enough to make one with ordinary sense pause and ask
whether they may not balance against spiritism and in favor of tele
pathy and secondary personality, and hence represent impossible facts
as judged by the usual and natural assumptions of what consciousness
must be when separated from a material organism, especially when our
thinking is dominated by Cartesian conceptions of the soul.
I can say in reply, however, as I have said above, that there is
nothing intrinsically impossible in the "astral facsimile" theory, how
ever amusing, as it certainly is to me with my habits of thought.
Even physiological science, where it has admitted a soul at all, has
occasionally tolerated the idea that it might be of the shape of the
body, and this without reference to the veridical character of appari
tions. But there is also a way to reconcile both the Cartesian and
the physiological conceptions. We may suppose that the "astral
facsimile " is an etherial body and the soul may still be a point of force
inhabiting the etherial body, as consciousness now inhabits the mate
rial organism. This is the way that the communications most natur
ally represent it, or require us to conceive it. Dr. Hodgson has stated
this matter very clearly in his report (Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p.
400). Of course I do not urge this view of it as true or proved, but as
so possible from the limits of our knowledge regarding any transcen
dental world beyond sense perception (instance X-rays), that it cannot
be treated as an objection, but only as a problem within the spiritistic
theory.
But it is not so easy to remove our natural repugnance to the other
allegations or implications about the conditions of existence in another
life Living in houses, listening to lectures, are rather funny repro
ductions of a material existence, and still funnier for beings that ought to
be nothing more than points of force according to Descartes and
Boscovich ! In some instances the statements may be treated as auto
matisms and hence as not indicating transcendental conditions of life at
8 2
260 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
all, as in the case of a communicator calling for his hat (p. 307), or as
distorted messages owing to the influence of the " machine " and its
organic habits upon the form of the communication. Allusions to
breathing and similar functions may also be treated as automatisms, or
as the nearest description that a spirit could give of the state of con
sciousness which accompanies the difficulties of communicating. From
what I have already said about the conditions of such an existence
it is apparent that I do not consider myself bound to interpret them in
the terms of our most natural understanding, but as the best attempts
possible to express new experiences in terms intelligible to us. That is
the communicator must put new wine into old bottles. Interesting
evidence of this is the language used in describing the process of com
municating. It is sometimes called "speaking," and sometimes
" thinking," as if recognising in the latter case that it was telepathic in
nature, that is, telepathy between the disearnate spirit and Mrs. Piper's
subliminal. Imagine a person who never had the sense of touch and
only the sense of sight communicating with another who never had the
sense of sight but only that of touch, and we have some analogy with the
situation lietween incarnate and discarnate consciousness, the difference
being that in the case of supposed spirits there is a memory connection
with the terrestrial world which makes torn/; communications intelligible.
Independently of this, however, the communications would be either
impossible or worthless for establishing personal identity. The only
common aspect of consciousness without this memory connection would
be the emotional characteristic, and that is an impossible basis for
establishing any intelligible idea of the real conditions that the
language appears to describe. On this ground and analogy, therefore,
I refuse to interpret all such statements in terms of our ordinary
expeiience where they are so closely associated with sensor}' ideas. We
may leave them as unknown quantities. Even if we could not suggest
a method of explaining them away, they are not frequent enough to
require a positive explanation in the absence of data to interpret
them, while the predominant evidence which falls into line with our
conception of personal identity, sufficiently allows us to draw a
conclusion regarding the possibility of survival, and we suspend judg
ment on the unverified and unverifiable allegations which do not
contradict the evidence, but which merely offend our a priori
assumptions.
But there is a reply to the objection under consideration that is
still more effective, and that brings the statements that offend us so
much into the range of our intelligence without admitting sensory con
ceptions into the account. I shall appeal to the whole philosophy of
idealism in support of the possibility that I shall present. If that
system has any foundation at all, its position assigns so much even in
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 261
material existence to the action of consciousness that it ousrht to be
easily adjusted to the spiritistic theory. Ever since Kant the watch
word of that philosophy has been that we make our world. Such
statements offend common sense as much as these puzzling allegations
from a trancendental world annoy the common man and the
philosopher alike. But however much we may dissent from it and
however much the language is calculated to create misunderstanding in
terms of empirical and sensory experience, it nevertheless contains the
important truth (1) that sensations are not representive of the world
that elicits them; (2) that all the disconnected elements of experience in
time and space are organised into the unity of scientific and other
knowledge by the subject's own action ; and (3) that the spontaneous
idealisation or creation of many objects of consciousness, not given in
experience at all, represents some constructive and non-sensory menta
tion even in a material existence. Of course in our present conditions
we are always brought up to face the non-ego when the problem of
adjustment to an external world is involved. The nature of the
case makes it constantly imperative to take our n-o'u o-rS, in the
objective world and not to disregard it, either in thought or action.
We can disregard it, however, in our dreams, and in those moods and
occupations which employ us with the construction of our ideals. Now
imagine the material world removed from its relation to consciousness
and to the needs of life, and we have a condition in which Kant's
dictum about the spontaneous action of the understanding would
represent that function as having free play. Suppose then the
two following conditions fulfilled in a transcendental world and then
interpret the statements which give difficulty in their light to see how
the matter may stand. (1) Imagine a rationalised dream life, or life
of spontaneous idealisation and creation of ideas (poetry is this), and
(2) their communication by persons to each other through telepathy,
and we shall have a representation, in two actual facts of our know
ledge, of what is possible in the transcendental world. We carry on
such acts of the understanding under limitations even now, and we
have also proved telepathy as an occasional phenomenon in a material
existence, though not employing any material conditions within our
knowledge for its effectuation. Taking then these two suppositions
which represent known laws of mental action and adding to them that
of personal identity on the evidence of such records as this,
and we have, as strictly within the lines of scientific method,
the rationality of the spiritistic theory. In addition we remove
absolutely all the offensiveness of statements about occupations and
actions in a transcendental world, as they have to be expressed to us in
our language adapted to sensory experience and not qualified to suggest
the real difference between the pure products of the understanding,
262 [part
J. H. Hyslnp, Ph.D.
even though they are based upon antecedent experience, and the
material objects which are usually denoted for us in our ordinary
intercourse, where we cannot lose sight of the external world on any
theory. I shall not develop this thought at length, but leave it to the
reader, as my object is accomplished when I have shown the way
even to make the apparently preposterous statements of discarnate
spirits intelligible to terrestrial reason. Rightly applied, this
hypothesis will give unity to more of the data of psychical research
than appears at a glance. I shall not maintain that my hypothesis
is true or proved, as I am as far from entertaining it as more than a
possibility. It contradicts no known human experience or theory, but
rather falls into line with much of our philosophy and common
experience divested of its association with sense, and consequently
ought to represent a fair reproduction of a spiritual world for any of
those who have been willing to believe and describe it without
evidence. To those who will not accept such a world without evidence,
and I class myself among this latter number, the hypothesis violates
no known fact of human experience, but rather depends upon it and
only adds to it the conclusion that follows from the evidence of
personal identity. In this it satisfies the canons of scientific method,
as telepathy cannot do.
We may also ask, as a further objection, who Imperator and
Rector are. Here we have two alleged spirits whose identity is
absolutely concealed from us and apparently with " malice prepense."
Phinuit attempted to tell us who he was and failed to identify himself.
Imperator and Rector do not even try as yet to satisfy our curiosity
on this point. Now are we not obliged to determine whether they are
spirits or not before accepting the verdieally spiritual character of the
personalities that seem to be verifiable 1 May we not, in the absence
of evidence for their identity, assume that they are secondary
personalities of Mrs. Piper's organism and representative of super
normal conditions which qualify her for telepathic acquisition of the
data that simulate the personal identity of others 1
Now it should be said in regard to this objection that it can be
made from two points of view. The first will be from a thorough study
of their performances, and the second that of secondary personality in
others and without any knowledge of the Piper phenomena. This
second point of view does not need any notice, as it is not worth any
thing until the man who is tempted with it acquaints himself with the
case at hand. The first is more important. But if any man delibe
rately adopts that view as assured after studying the case at first
hand, I do not see that I can dislodge him. As for myself I cannot
study the dramatic play of personality, to say nothing of its complication
xu.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 263
with telepathy, without appreciating the naturalness and the rational
strength of the spiritistic theory more than I can the emphasis
of analogies which are too general to affect anything except the
superficial features of an argument. In addition to the wonderful
dramatic play of personality that I have so elaborately discussed,
just think of the memory that must be involved in conducting the
right adjustment and connections of incidents, ideas, and advice
necessary to give the psychological complexity and the unity of the
phenomena that so successfully represent spirit existence, while
hundreds of sitters follow each other from day to day in miscellaneous
confusion.(If any man wishes to combine such a number of "miracles "
in one act or brain, namely, such elastic range of secondary personality
as appears in these trance intermediaries and others like G. P. and
Phinuit, all with character as distinct as we ever knew it in life and
capable of playing a real part wholly unlike secondary personality as
we know it ordinarily, and then add to this an omniscient telepathy—
if any man does this, I can only say that I do not follow him into the
a priori construction of such an hypothesis. ' He must give a detailed
analysis of cases that are similar and yet that do not have any
spiritistic content. This may be possible, but I suspend judgment
until it is effected. The supposition appears strong as any appeal to
the infinite must appear strong for the lack of any assignable limits to
such powers. But these are not the customary modes of scientific
explanation, which has a preference for the finite.
I may add, however, in further reply to this objection that, as I
conceive the problem, I am not required to begin any theory with an
explanation of who Imperator or Rector are. That problem I have
already defined as, first, that of personal identity, but this does not
obligate my proving the identity of everybody that comes along. If
Imperator and Rector volunteered any evidence of their identity, it
would be my duty to examine and weigh it. But unless they do
volunteer it I am entitled, nay, bound to suspend judgment on that
point, and be content with the supposition of secondary personality.
It is even possible that it is exceedingly wise on their part, if they are
actually discarnate spirits, not to make any claims as to who they are.
My sittings show that it is a very precarious business to identify
anybody that has been dead twenty-five or fifty years. Compare the
case of John McClellan (p. Ill), and Note 94 (p. 535). The memories
of even one's children may not suffice to satisfy the maw of science if
a parent or relative has passed long before. (Cf. Footnote p. 111.) If
Imperator and Rector should happen to belong to a past generation, the
concealment of their identity would not only be a wise procedure until
the identity of some one else was established, but it might also entitle
them to the credit of fully realising the scientific problem that presents
2G4 [PART
J. H. Hytshy, Ph.D.
itself to us. I have no positive re&son to suppose that this possibility
of their existence in some past generation is true, or even plausible.
Hut there is nothing opposed to it in the nature of the case.
Nevertheless I concede that as long as their identity is not
given we must either assume that they are secondary personalities
of Mrs. Piper or conduct the argument for the identity of others
on a scale commensurate with the gravity of the problem. If the
evidence for the identity of alleged communicators, beside Im-
perator and Rector, becomes so overwhelming as it appears generally
in cases which we are capable of verifying, and if it transcends all
normal expectations of the human brain and routs the theory of
telepathy, so that spiritism is the preferable hypothesis, we may
accept the facts as giving the retroactive light to suppose that
Impenitor and Rector are what they claim to be. But this does not
commit us to their personal identity in any case, even if they should
reveal it. They might he utterly unable to satisfy the criterion of
scientific method in attempting the task, though any statement on
their part would put the burden of rejecting the case upon us. We
might believe them if desired, but we are not obliged to do so. I
should have the right certainly to exact of them sufficient verifiable
evidence for their identity before accepting their statements, whether
that evidence he facts in their lives on earth or their performances and
character as " Controls " in these experiments inducing confidence in
their veracity. Hence I am willing, or may even think it necessary,
to suspend judgment on this point altogether, even after accepting the
fact that they are possibly or probably spirits on the ground of the
evidence that presumably enforces the spiritistic theory in regard to
communicators who can and do give verifiable facts. But we can
never forget that Imperator and Rector as personalities follow George
Pelham in the history of the Piper case as a personality, He it was
that could at once do something to establish his identity and control
communications. They do not ap]iear as entire mysteries in the wake
of Phinuit, but are preceded by a verifiable personality who was
instrumental in producing them, and who actually counsels Dr.
Hodgson to accept their directions in the management of the ex
periments. This fact with the whole testimony of their work is
a powerful argument for their reality. But I shall not assume it in
this discussion, and feel less obliged to do so for the reason that it
does not make any difference where the proMem of personal identity
begins. We have in any case to face the fact of secondary personality
and we may assume as many as we please of them as intermediaries, if
only the evidence unmistakably shows such limitations in the powers
of these personalities as will not consist with anything except the
spirit hypothesis.
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 265
I should also treat their various statements about transcendental
conditions and their professions of superior knowledge in the same
way. These are their individual opinions and must be subject to the
same rules of evidence that regulate the acceptance of any opinions.
Complete liberty of judgment must be accorded us on this point to
apply as rigid criteria as scientific method may demand, even when we
conceive their opinions as either possible or probable. Their statements
are not to be supposed false because we refuse to accept them as true on
authority. They may be the personal opinions of the subjects who state
them and cannot be put on the same plane as the verifiable facts of a
terrestrial world. They may even be facts instead of opinions, but
not being verifiable by us beyond the range of such incidents as are
represented in their achievements in terrestrial conditions (diagnosis
of disease, supernormal perception of character, etc.), we are entitled
to distinguish between what are opinions and what we know to be
facts verifiable independently of their testimony. This fact relieves us
from all scientific use of data in the record which do not first prove
identity, whatever we choose to regard as possible or probable in the
personality of these intermediaries. If they could or did furnish
satisfactory evidence of their identity, the case against secondary
personality and its combination with telepathy would be that much
stronger. That is freely admitted. But this does not affect the
question regarding the proper scientific attitude toward communica
tions that represent alleged facts in a transcendental world which
cannot be verified, or that may be mere theories of a discarnate being
whose range of knowledge, even though it be much greater than ours,
is subject to the same general limitations, so far as my acceptance is
concerned, as characterise all opinions of another intelligence. I do not
contradict them where thev do not contravene human experience, but
neither do I feel bound to accept them, nor to class them with the
verifiable facts which may serve as evidence for the supernormal or for
the existence of a transcendental world But the reservations on this
point and on their identity may well impose upon us the duty to
require more evidence for survival of terrestrial consciousness than
would be the case if we could unhesitatingly accept the independent
intelligence and teachings of these trance personalties, as this latter
would presuppose that we had eliminated the question of secondary
personality, at least in its most perplexing form.
But the problem of their independent personality is a very different
one from the acceptability of their opinions or their personal identity.
Their independent personality is prior to all questions, except the
identity of those for whom the evidence is scientifically sufficient.
Hence I refuse to consider their identity as any prior condition of the
spiritistic theory. Their independent personality comes first, and even
266 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
this is subordinate to that of communicators who can make out a case
for identity. Consequently the independent personality of these
" controls " must be measured by the quantity and quality of the
evidence that suggests preternatural intelligence. The real point de
repere, so to speak, of the scientific theory must be the capacities of the
human brain, the normal knowledge of Mrs. Piper, and the limits of
secondary personality as already known. That is to say, have
physiology and psychology any theories that will explain the
phenomena without a resort to spirits 1 If the communications of
others than these intermediaries bore no traces of personal identity,
we should be obliged, of course, to stop with the hypothesis of secon
dary personality as sufficient to cover the whole case, no matter how
we had to stretch it, unless we were audacious enough to consider the
existence of transterrestrial intelligence as involved and not implying
the continuance of terrestrial consciousness after death. But this would
be an extremely dubious supposition, to say the least of it, considering
the language employed and the exact adjustment to our conditions of
thought. I do not even need to state how little tolerance any intelli
gent man should have for such a view. But the mass of evidence for
personal identity in certain cases is a presumption for the independent
personality of the trance intermediaries, and this latter then becomes
wholly subject to the evidence with which we have to measure the
capacities of the medium. The proper order for our problems is,
therefore, the personal identity of any communicator whose incidents
are terrestrially verifiable, the independent personality of the trance
intermediaries, their personal identity, and the acceptability of their
teachings. The solution of the first of these problems is offered in
the facts of this record, and does not come under notice at present.
The second question may be suspended as long as we like, inasmuch as
we have in any case to reckon with the fact of secondary personality,
and may assume this for the trance personalities, without setting aside
the evidence for the identity of others, though the assumption requires
us to be more exacting in the quantity and quality of the evidence
than would otherwise be the case.
But there is much in the Piper phenomena to suggest the indepen
dent personality of these intermediaries. This ought to be evident to
all who study carefully the dramatic play of personality of which I have
made much in the evidence for the spiritistic view. There is also the
wonderful intellectual and moral cleavage between Phinuit and the
present "controls," Imperator and Rector; between these and G. P.
and also between Phinuit and G. P., to say nothing of the same
cleavage between all other communicators. The personalities are so
numerous, so distinct, and so diversified in all the details of their
make-up that, supposing them to be secondary personalities of the
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 267
medium, approaches the attribution of infinity to her. If the
" controls " had never been more than one type of personality the case
would be very different. We should feel more keenly the difficulties
proposed by it. But there have been so many trance personalities
involved in the " control " of the medium (Phinuit, George Pelham,
Imperator, Rector, Doctor and Prudens) to say nothing of temporary
" controls " (Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 28-50 ; Vol. XIII., 295-335,
370-389 ; more especially pp. 300, 303-4, 316, 358), and all with that
cleavage which consists with, or exhibits, such independence of each
other as would be true of separate persons, so that the hypothesis of
secondary personality simply atljibutes to Mrs. Piper's brain construc
tive and synthetic powers which are more easily conceivable on the
spiritistic theory than on any other. If Mrs. Piper's subliminal is the
Absolute let us say so. But, as Dr. Hodgson well remarks, we may
as well call this another world and make it intelligible, as it is not
intelligible in terms designedly used to deny a transcendental exist
ence, but which on examination perform the Hegelian process of
either becoming altogether meaningless or identifying a conception
with its own opposite which it was intended to contradict. All this
is worked out with a completeness by Dr. Hodgson that I need not
repeat, but shall only refer the reader to his discussion (Proceeding.*,
Vol. XIII., pp. 370-406). I may state, however, that I did not see
clearly the meaning of his statements until my own facts induced
the same conclusion independently of his language. All this, too,
can be said while keeping in mind such cases as that of Dr. Morton
Prince (Proceedings, Vol. XV., pp. 466-483), and that of M. Flournoy
(From India to the Planet Mars).
It will be apparent, therefore, why I refuse to treat our ignorance
about these trance personalities as anything like forcible objections or
serious difficulties in the way of the spiritistic theory. They may
indicate a problem which it is desirable to solve. But this does not
subordinate the question of personal identity in the case of verifiable
facts to either the independent personality or the personal identity of
these "controls," whom we might find it difficult or impossible to
investigate. Hence the only view which I feel called upon to favour
is that the spiritistic theory is well supported in the case of the persons
represented as communicators to me. All other questions are held in
abeyance as involving a possible, if not a proved spiritistic interpreta
tion, especially as they are consistent with it and possess some
independent probabilities.
It may interest the reader to know at this point how little evidence
may be necessary to establish identity with sufficient certitude and
that this evidence may not be as specific as we have been accustomed
to demand in our reports of the Piper case. I do not mean by this to
2GS [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
relax our vigilance in the matter of proof, but to indicate that when
identity is established we have only to consider how far telepathy can
account for the complexity of the phenomena. My experiments on the
Identification of Personality show that identity may often become-
assured, and with good reason, upon evidence that was extremely
indefinite and apparently unfit for the purpose, as judged by the
standards we have usually adopted in this study. I was much
surprised by the fact. The reader may compare the following refer
ences : Questions 2 and 9, pp. 563-4 ; 9, p. 570 ; 9, p. 577; 3 and 7, pp.
586-7; 11 and 16, pp. 587-8; 2, p. 583; 1, 4, 7, 9, 10, 13, 14, 16,
and 17, pp. C09-613, and especially Qttention 7, p. 619.
I come now to an objection whi?h must necessarily carry more
weight than any that I have considered, at least to those who are
either devoid of resources for the justification of further scepticism or
defective in the appreciation of the character and consequences
of hypotheses that are absolutely without any scientific support
independently of the Piper phenomena themselves. The objection
was practically stated in the difficulty just dismissed, and con
sidered somewhat in the discussion of the telepathic theory
(Cf. p. 152). It is the supposition combining the functions of
telepathy and secondary personality to explain the case, the one to
give the significant data and the other the play of independent
personality. That is to say, we may suppose that we have the
fortuitous combination of capacities which usually or always have
been separated in other abnormal cases. I think that any reader of the
facts will admit that the whole case cannot be adequately explained
by what we understand by telepathy alone in either its spontaneous or
its experimental aspects, no matter what extension we choose to give
it. The dramatic play of personality is not like anything that we know
of in telepathy. Telepathy may involve a subliminal process like that
of secondary personality, but as it is known in its experimental and
spontaneous forms it does not exhibit the intelligent selectiveness and
teleological unity that are so characteristic of the Piper phenomena.
]n its acquisition of data it resembles more nearlv a mechanical
process, or the automatism of abnormal association. For that reason
we cannot assume that secondary personality in such a dramatic form
as this record shows is a necessary part of the conditions connected with
supernormal knowledge. On the other hand, from all that we know of
secondary personality where it does not assume the spiritistic form at
all, and even where it evidently tries to simulate it, though it displays
the imitation of another personality than that of the subject, it never
reproduces the life and experience of other subjects than the one
delivering them, whether living or dead and absolutely unknown to
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 269
this subject. Hence it is equally apparent that secondary personality
alone cannot account for the phenomena. But may we not combine
these suppositions in this fortunate instance so that the function of
one process may supplement the defects of the other 1
The objection which this combination embodies, however, as it
1s stated here, is a purely a priori one, and I accept it merely
as a concession to the precautions which the student may wish to
.entertain who is familiar with the phenomena of secondary per
sonality elsewhere and often claimed to be spiritistic, but who has
not minutely acquainted himself with the case before us. But I cannot
-allow the objection to have any scientific weight whatever unless he
support the appeal to secondary personality by remarking features in
this instance that justify comparison with other cases admitted to be
neither spiritistic nor telepathic. That is to say, we must show that
this dramatic play of personality is a sufficiently general quality of the
secondary consciousness to invoke suspicion in this instance. We
,cannot permit the objection to remain in abstracto. It must produce
■evidence, and empirical evidence at that, for the one crucial point that
will justify comparison.
The first analogy that would suggest itself to the critic in the
attempt to supply this empirical evidence would be multiplex
personality. We know that this is a fact, and that it often betrays
no sign of spiritistic phenomena. The experiments of Pierre Janet
(U'Antomatisme Psyehologique and Ne'vro$es et IdJes Fixes), Dr. Morton
Prince (Proceedings, Vol. XIV., pp. 79-98), and others ad nauseam,
show that the same brain may assume different personalities where the
cleavage is wonderfullv marked and suggestive. Hypnosis can produce
it in dual form almost at pleasure, and might develop it further if tried.
But I shall not illustrate it in detail, as I have done enough to
indicate that I recognise it. But I reject at the outset any legitimate
comparison between multiplex personality in hypnotism and that which
we find in the Piper case, though I concede very frankly and fully the
right of any one who has not studied these phenomena, but who has
seen something of the spiritistic claims that have no better foundation
than secondary consciousness, to defend himself against illusion by
the supposition which I nevertheless reject. The resemblance is wholly
superficial and rather in name than in reality. The term "multiplex
personality " seems to cover both cases, but it does not correctlv
describe the same facts in each case. The multiplex personality of
both auto and hetero-hypnosis does not exhibit any dramatic play. It
may imitate another person under suggestion, or reproduce another
apparent personality than the normal, but it does not imitate
conscious intercourse between these dual or several streams of mental
action teleologically adjusted to a common end. This last is the
270 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
dramatic play which I have discussed. / must insist upon tfie
radical distinction between either the imitation under suggestion of
another personality than the subject, or the production, spontaneous/;/
or under suggestion, of a secondary consciousness drawing without
knowledge or recognition upon the experience, habit, language, etc., of
the normal stream, and that dramatic interplay ofdifferent personalities
in the same subject that reproduces the intercourse of real persons with
each other. This latter is what I have meant by the dramatic play of
personality and it is very different from dramatic imitation of it in
any case. Psychologically the two are different, and this is true even
on the assumption that they are both forms of secondary personality.
The point is not to prove that the proper dramatic interplay of
personality is spiritistic, but that it is different from the dramatic
personality of suggestion, and that it is just what we should expect
on the spiritistic hypothesis. The change from one personality
to another in the phenomena of secondary consciousness may be
as sudden as you please, but it is neither one of those ad libitum
processes which always imitates the existence of real persons, nor
a process which adjusts itself to a representatively complex and
external situation which makes the acts teleologically intelligible
in terms of a possible real existence, as in what I have described
in the Piper case. It shows no trace of such complex and accurate
adjustment. If it exhibits anything like adjustment at all, it is
either absurd adjustment to a wholly imaginary world created by
suggestion,, or it remains passive and inert until some form of foreign
suggestion, or. inner caprice, alters its direction and mnemonic unity.
Nor does it help the argument any to produce the alterations of hetero-
suggestion. These are the purely passive reflexes of the hypnotic
operator, and show neither such spontaneity as we observe in the
trance personalities of Mrs. Piper, with their intelligent and rationally
teleological action, nor the representation of a consistent and intel
ligible situation outside the range of our knowledge. Hence I repudiate
all but the most superficial comparison and resemblance between
multiplex personality in hypnosis and the trance personalities under
consideration, and I think every careful student of the case will agree
with this view. The one point which it is necessary to find in the
case in order to justify suspicion, namely, the dramatic interplay
between different personalities in the same object, and adjustment to
varying conditions simulating a transcendental reality, is not discover
able in the multiplex personality of hypnosis in so far as it has been
studied.
But there is a more important objection to this comparison of the
trance personalities of -Mrs. Piper with the multiplex personality of
hypnosis. The latter nearly always, if not absolutely always, shows a
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 271
point of connection and unity between two or more streams of
consciousness which indicate an identity of subject in spite of the
apparent plurality of subjects. The cleavage is purely a mnemonic
defect, and is due to a suspension of the recognitive process. The
facts belong to the same ego or subject without the recognition that
they occurred in the stream of consciousness which as a whole seems
lost. The amnesia is all but perfect, and may even be perfect in so far
as definite recognitive processes are concerned. The retention and
reproduction remain with an organising process that is minus the act
of either localisation or recognition within the normal stream. This is
very common in our dreams. I recorded one instance of a similar
phenomenon in the waking state of Mrs. D. (Proceedings, Vol. XII.,
pp. 262-3), Miss X. records in her papers quite a number of experi
ences in which a message comes unrecognised from the subliminal into
the supraliminal, and the phenomenon is a familiar one to a psychical
researcher (Proceedings, Vol. XI., pp. 1 14-144). Take also the case
of the hypnotised artist who was told that he was a certain physician
and in his imaginary practice of medicine prescribed that his patient
should go and paint pictures (Boris Sidis : Psychology of Suggestion,
p. 257) ; also the case of Dr. Dana, in which the amnesic subject
wished the lady to whom he was engaged to remain with him, though
he had completely forgotten her name and his own with his whole
life, and did not even know the meaning of the very word marriage
(Psychological Review. Vol. I., pp. 570-580; especially p. 572;.
The hest case is that of Ansel Bourne in our own records, where there
were several connections between the auto-hypnotic and the normal
stream (Proceedings, Vol. VII., pp. 221-257.) There is also a most
interesting case in the experiments of Pierre Janet discussed by
Mr. Myers (Proceedings, Vol. V., pp. 376-8). My own case also illus
trates the phenomenon on a smaller scale. The hypnotic subject could
not recall his own name or age, but recalled the names of his com
panions in both his normal and abnormal state very easily and of his
normal life only a few incidents (p. 641). But not to continue
cases in which the cleavage is almost perfect, the whole phenomenon
of post-hypnotic suggestion illustrates this connection in the same
subject, and it is too familiar to psychiatrists to require further
mention. This interconnection between " the two or more selves " is
generally admitted, and it is only the failure to recognise the con
nection that gives the appearance of a total cleavage and of a dual
i subject (Cf Boris Sidis : Psychology of Suggestion, pp. 162-179, and
Pierre Janet: L'Automatisme Psychologique pp. 73-91)
Now this unity is not a characteristic of the " multiplex per
sonality " of the Piper case. The only interconnection (with the
exception of facts to be noted presently) that is observable in it is a
272 [part
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
facsimile of the interconnection between two minds self-consciously
exchanging ideas. Rector does not appropriate the facts that
belong to G. P., unless some natural hint of their foreign source
is given, as we attribute the like to others in actual life. Phinuit
and G. P. refer to each other as independent realities, and appropriate
nothing from one another which does not resemble the conscious
intercourse between two beings. No unconscious interconnection, as
in the ordinary cases of hypnosis and secondary personality, seems ever
to show itself. It has been uniformly the same throughout the history
of the Piper phenomena (Cf. my brother and my sister communicating
for others, pp. 100-108).
The only facts that seem to supply the necessary desiderata for
such a comparison are those cases of secondary consciousness in which
one of the personalities actually recognises another and distinguishes
between the two as if they were really different persons (Cf. Pierre
Janet L'Automatisme Psychologique, pp. 67-125, and 271-354; Pro
ceedings, Vol. V., pp. 393-395, and Vol. XIV., pp. 366-372;
Vol. XV., pp. 466-483). There is something like dramatic play
in these instances ; at least in respect to the apparent independence of
the personalities and their recognition one of another as if real and
not of the same subject. Nevertheless, we often find even in these the
appropriation of another's memories, experiences and personal traits
in a way that suggests the ordinary interconnection between apparently
separate streams of consciousness, as characterises the general type of
multiplex personality. The recognition is rarely, if ever, reciprocal.
I have never seen it reciprocal. There is occasionally, at least, some
resemblance to this play in our dreams. Karl Du Prel has remarked
this fact also (Philosophy of Mysticism, Vol. I., p, 137).
But before admitting more force in these cases than may be
permitted it is worth while to remark that recent experimenters and
students very much discredit the genuineness of these trained
Salpetriere patients. But I shall not encourage scepticism on this
point for the sake of denying the comparison between the cases and
the dramatic play of the Piper phenomena. I shall assume their
genuineness and press the resemblance as far as it will go, for the
reason that we cannot afford to defend the spiritistic theory at the
expense of facts which might possibly present a clue to the way out of
it. Nevertheless, the existing doubt about them is legitimate vantage
ground for caution against dogmatism in making the comparison, at
least until the cases are examined.
But the best external evidence of this dramatic play, or at least
simulation of it, is the fact of automatic writing with its accompani
ments. A general reference to the many articles in the Proceedings is
sufficient on this point. They show a personality of which the
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 273
supraliminal is unaware in the same subject, palming off on this
supraliminal, knowledge which appears to come from some independent
source, but which study shows originates from the subliminal. The
automatic self simply plays hide and seek with the normal self. Hence
putting together these cases of automatic writing and the incidents of
apparently independent personalities in hypnotic experiments, may we
not have sufficient dramatic play to give some trouble to the argument
for spiritism from that characteristic 1 Assume also that, in the process
of fifteen years' experimenting and careful directions under Professor
James, Dr. Hodgson and others, Mrs. Piper has gradually, though
unconsciously, become the subject of a thorough education into the
more than usually perfect instance of multiplex personality in which
the dramatic play can reproduce the realism that we observe in it.
Then if we can obtain after this any empirical evidence of a deep
unity below this diversity of personality in the Piper case and thus
satisfy the demand of physiology for one brain subject, with this
underlying unity and unusually educated power to simulate inde
pendent personalities, we may find the spiritistic theory face to face
with a serious difficulty, when we add telepathy to account for the
objective facts of the record. There are some interesting facts in
these phenomena which might be used to establish this very unity.
For instance, my brother Charles, in answer to my question as to
what he died with, asks me : " Is scarlet fever a bad thing to have in
the body 1" (p. 330). Now I find this exact form of expression by
another person back in the Phinuit regime : " Do you think consump
tion a bad thing?" (Vol. XIII., pp. 379 or 522). In my sittings my
father repeats his expectation that he will be able to tell me " all he
ever knew " (p. 325). G. P. uses the same expression in the Phinuit
days (Vol. XIII., p. 432). My father's statement that I am "not the
strongest man" (p. 333) is duplicated in a similar statement by
Phinuit, made in 1894 to another person : "You're not the strongest
man in the country " (Vol. XIII., p. 519). Again my father said : " If
your father ever lived I am his spirit. I am he. / am he " (p. 475).
Professor Newbold got the same phrase from another person : "If
Fred Morton ever lived I am he " (Vol. XIV., p. 15). The incident
which my father narrates about the boat and his sister helping him out
of difficulty (p. 478) suggests comparison with a somewhat similar
communication to Professor Lodge in England in 1889 (Vol. VI., p.
520). Again in the Imperator regime some such statement as, " May
God have you in His holy keeping " is very common and also the
phrase " keep you in His holy keeping." Phinuit uses the expression
in 1889, " God keep you in His holy keeping " (Vol. VI., p. 525). This
is all the more remarkable because Phinuit has no specially religious
characteristic, and this is the first instance and the only one in which
T
zi4. [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I have remarked anything like piety or cant in him. A communication
from Professor Lodge's uncle speaks of the uncle's going " gunning "
at one time, a word which Professor Lodge says is " rank American."
(Compare also the words "push" and "pull," p. 340.) These
are all that I know, though they are probably more numerous.
But such as they are they seem to reflect just the possible unity which
is necessary for a background to the diversity of personality which
appears in the Piper case and which assimilates it to multiplex
personality generally, so that if we can only add the most extended
capacity for telepathy to this we should seem to have at least a
plausible escape from spiritism.
In reply, however, it must be said that the cogency of these
incidents for establishing a unity between the various " controls "
in the Piper phenomena is greatly impaired by the following considera
tions. The expression " not a bad thing " is too common in general
usage to attach the slightest value beyond chance coincidence to its
occurrence in two cases so far apart. Were it not so common an
expression in precisely such emergencies we might sustain a suspicion,
and if it had been a common way of alluding to sickness or disagree
able facts throughout the history of the Piper case the coincidence
might suggest a doubt. But this single instance of it is worthless
evidentially for giving unity to the different regimes involved, especially
as the admission of its significance for any such view would so
eliminate the necessity of considering chance in the coincidence of
psychical research generally as to make the case at large far stronger
for spiritism than the sceptic is willing to concede. We cannot safely
discard chance in this problem. The same can be said of the
coincidence in the expression about my comparative strength and the
incidents about the boats. The mode of expression is a very common
one and scarcely anyone is exempt from such an escapade as is
described in the boat incident. It is not surprising that both
should occur. In fact, it might be surprising that this duplication
does not occur more frequently than it does, if only on the ground of
ordinary physiological analogies that a nervous system should reflect
the effects of its experience even in transmitting the facts that belong
to the consciousness of others. We cannot attach any special value to
the Americanism, "gunning," as it does not necessarily represent the
use of an American word by an Englishman who never knew it. If
we had to suppose that Professor Lodge's uncle was the direct com
municator the case would be more plausible. But the expression is
one of Phinuit's and represents his way of putting a message that
might have been very different. This modification of a message
by the " control " is a most common incident. (Compare use of
the word " Sunday," p. 432.) Now Phinuit, whether we regard
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 275
him as a real spirit or the secondary personality of Mrs. Piper,
was American in his experience as a "control," and it would be
natural from all that we know either of the action of a real conscious
ness, or from the natural influence of the medium upon any transmitted
fact, that such a word might be taken to express a thought that the
" control " either obtained in fragments or had to express in its own
way. Besides there is actually on record in the communications them
selves the statement, purporting to come from Mr. E., that Phinuit
likes to pick up just such words and phrases for use (Proceedings,
Vol. VI., p. 517). This statement is born out also by a number of
terms that could be selected from the reports, such as a "nine-shooter,"
" get out," " skip," " gave them a tuning," " slumped through," etc.
(Proceedings, Vol. VI., pp. 510, 519, 520, 521). These latter instances
do not illustrate the unity between the two regimes, but only the
influence of the " control's " mind on the result, so that all such
instances fall to the ground as objections. Besides this, the Imperator
regime seems to be exempt from their repetition, observing, as it does,
all the dignities of the occasion.
There is more apparent force in the other two cases, owing to the
peculiar form of expression in one and to the essentially religious and
Imperator type of language in the other, a feature that is quite opposed
to the character of Phinuit. The expression, "have in His holy
keeping " is too common in religious service and human memory to
tolerate any secure argument for the unity of the different personalities
under consideration. Besides, in spite of his irreligious temper, Phinuit
is not averse to a " God bless you " at times, and might very well resort
to so common an expression as the one indicated by mere chance,
so that the coincidence has no evidential value.
We are then left to the first of the last two phrases for the
argument to show the unity of the trance personalities, namely, the
statement : "If I ever lived," etc. This instance is more striking and
interesting because it does not represent so common an expression or
form of putting the thought as in the other instances. But after
disqualifying the other cases as arguments, it is a poor refuge to make
so gigantic a conclusion as a unity of subject for the universal cleavage
we observe in the case depend upon this one little exception and
coincidence. Chance could not figure in anything if we allowed
ourselves to attach causal significance to such a phenomenon as this.
Even if the causal unity be there as a fact, we should require
better evidence than we have in this instance to justify conviction.
When we add to this both the influence of the medium's organism
and that of the " controls " upon the form of the communications,
as is marked in the thousands of cases where this unity of trance
personalities is not even suspected, we have a rather invulnerable
t 2
276 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
argument against attaching much value to this one coincidence, in
spite of the fact that it belongs to two regimes. Dr. Hodgson will
deal with this feature at length in a later report. But when examined
it does not give any unity to the different personalities, but only shows
the limitations under which different personalities work, and the
suggestion of its possibility is actually so weak evidentially that I
should not even mention or discuss it, were it not that it is imperative
that we search every nook and corner for difficulties in the spiritistic
hypothesis. But the weakness of the case is evident when we observe
the tremendous general cleavage between these personalities that are
demonstrably no part of the medium's normal equipment. I shall have
to leave the confirmation of this by the empirical data of the record to
the reader, as it would occupy too much space here to even touch upon
it. Especially is the case reinforced by the fact that if there be any
unity at all between tho various trance personalities, it should show
itself far more frequently, as it does so in the ordinary cases of
secondary personality, where the limitations of the normal self con
stantly reflect themselves in the secondary self, even when the latter
appears the superior. What astonishes one in the Piper instance is to
find that this supposed unity does not exhibit itself as it should if it
exist at all. Casual coincidences will not show it, and there is no such
common choice of expressions and language as so easily connects the
primary and secondary selves in the usual cases of hypnosis, where,
though recognition is interrupted or suspended, the main incidents of
the general character, habits, and expressions will often, and perhaps
inevitably creep out and betray the unity of the two selves. But the
only trace of this unity in the Piper case is either this casual unity,
whose significance we have to reject, or the unity of her own subliminal
and supraliminal which is to be expected in all circumstances, but
which does not reflect itself in the trance personalities in any sugges
tive way. The habits of the organism, whether physical or psychical,
subliminal or supraliminal, ought to be found in the results, and might
be expected, on all natural grounds of experience, to affect the perfect
integrity of the separate personalities on any theory whatsoever. But
the psychical streams represented in the various trance personalities
exhibit an independence of these habits and a cleavage between them
selves, as well as between them and the many communicators involved,
that is far more perfect than any study of secondary consciousness
would lead us to expect. A minute study of the case will bear this
statement out beyond question, while it is absolutely necessary to
establish a psychical unity between these personalities in order to get
any fulcrum at all against the weight of the spiritistic theory. The
strength of the case for this distinctness of cleavage is apparent when
the small amount of evidence that I have produced breaks down, even
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 277
on a collective basis of argument, and more especially as it is not
qualified even to suggest any marked influence from either organic or
subliminal habits on the part of the medium. The organic and psychic
unity should coincide in order to make out even a plausible case for
secondary personality in the explanation of this dramatic play, while
there should not be any such overwhelming distinctness of character
and language between Phinuit, G. P., and Imperator as appear, and
that does not coincide with organic and subliminal or supraliminal
functions derived from experience in some form. This is perfectly
evident and conclusive in studying the remarkable difference between
the trance condition and Mrs. Piper's emergence from it. The
phenomena of secondary personality are frequent in the latter, but never
noticeable in the former, unless hunted for with the utmost care in
sporadic instances which in no way suggest any unity in the various
trance personalities. Observe the very pertinent fact that the trance
personalities become objective realities in the third person to Mrs.
Piper's subliminal as she emerges from the trance and catches messages
only in broken fragments. The cleavage between the trance condition
in respect of personality and that of the subliminal emergence from it
is very different from the cleavage between the two subliminals which
she exhibits in this emergence. In fact, the cleavage hardly exists in
this latter at all. But it is most interesting to note that just where
the ordinary phenomena of secondary consciousness begin to appear
in Mrs. Piper the spiritistic begin to disappear, namely, the
indications that we are dealing with realities other than subliminal
mental states.
Having thus disposed of all empirical evidence in the Piper record
itself in favour of the necessary unity between the various " controls,"
as a condition of appealing to secondary personality in dispute of
the spiritistic significance in the phenomena, I go on to consider the
objection from the dramatic colouring in other instances of secondary
consciousness, a fact that is designed to classify this case inductively
with all others. In what may be called the dramatic play of hypnosis,
though it bears no essential comparison with the Piper case, as I have
shown in the distinction between dramatic imitation and dramatic
interplay between different personalities, there is yet a participation
sometimes by one personality in the experience of another. This is
seldom, or never, reciprocal. But secondary personality betrays a
community of ideas that never occurs in the Piper case except as
this community conforms to the conception and representation of
conversation and intercourse between real beings. In the ordinary
instance of secondary consciousness these data appear as stolen, or as
common property, and acknowledgments are seldom made. The
community is automatic and not self-conscious. But both the form
278 [part
J. H. HysU/p, Ph.D.
and the matter of the intercourse between the trance personalities of
Mrs. Piper represent the reciprocity of sane and intelligent exchange
of ideas. There always appears either a stated reason for this com
munity in the nature of the situation real or represented, or the
community is of a kind that betrays no resemblance to the indis
criminate access of one hypnotic personality to the experience of
another. There is too much intelligence and natural adjustment to a
possibly real and complex situation in a transcendental world, in our
case, to compare it with the mechanical action of the usual secondary
consciousness which does not even imagine a real or fictitious situation
for intercourse between personalities, and consequently the Piper
phenomena get such a unity of a rational sort as characterises distinct
persons working like a collective whole to a common end. This is
spiritistic. The ends of secondary personality are at cross purposes and
are not unified at all in anything but their accidents. Not so with the
Piper case. Its unity is fundamental with respect to its avowed end,
namely, the proof of individual survival, but not in respect of the
agencies that work together toward that end. Their personalities
show no reciprocity of ideas or experience that is not like the inter
course of real beings in working for the same end. The contrast in
this respect with the so-called dramatic play of pseudo-spiritistic
phenomena is very striking, where, as I have said, we get the most
suggestive evidence of any comparison whatever with the characteristic
under consideration. The whole play of ordinary automatic writing is
mechanical and shows all the limitations and the marks which usually
circumscribe both the fact and the pretensions of a transcendental
world. When it reaches the point of supposing such a world, it is
haunted with the oracular obscurity and contradictions of the natural
ignorance of any brain on such a subject, as well as the limitations of
supraliminal experience. There is an organic unity in the Piper case
that is established by its end, not by its mental states. Hence that
comparison with others which the student of secondary personality is
wont to make is to be dismissed, so that we are left without adequate
analogies in general to reduce the uniqueness of the Piper phenomena.
This does not mean, of course, that a man cannot adhere to the
hypothesis of a combination of secondary personality and telepathy
to account for them, but it does mean that the hypothesis is
without adequate empirical and scientific evidence in its support.
It is purely a priori and so based upon merely accidental resem
blances. But such a judgment cannot be entertained as anything
more than an evasion of its significance until adequate evidence is
produced in cases unquestionably non-spiritistic to show a dramatic
play so perfect and realistic as in the one under discussion. I do
not know a particle of evidence for any such characteristic carried out
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 279
with such organic consistency and intelligence toward a single end and
with such distinctness of personal intelligence and character as here.
Pierre Janet's Leonie 2 criticising Leonie 1 with a full consciousness
of the hitter's life, and Dr. Morton Prince's X 3 laughing at X 1 while
knowing all and more than X 1, do not in the slightest resemble the
interplay of personality with its reciprocal exchange of ideas, as if
real, that so characterises the Piper case. Consequently, I must adhere
to the thesis that the only objection to the spiritistic theory which
I can admit is extremely tenuous and dubious on the one hand, and
involves such a combination of enormous powers and unconscious
deception on the other, as defies all ordinary scientific suppositions
in this direction. The sceptic's only resource in the last analysis
is the unique character of the case, and a demand for its
repetition in another instance before giving in his allegiance.
But this is an abandonment of scientific evidence for his theory of
secondary personality, while we have a vast mass of other phenomena
pointing in the same direction and which are not discredited by this
explanation of the Piper case, as they are of a spontaneous and
experimental kind not connected with any exhibition of secondary
consciousness even in appearance, though they are inferior to the Piper
record in credentials. The difference, however, is one that cannot be
described briefly to any man who does not take the pains to examine
and study carefully the reports on the case. It is a difference which
every one will have to see for himself, and I should not have taken the
trouble here to discuss it at all in language that will seem to imply at
least some resemblance to secondary personality, had it not been
necessary to indicate to the reader that I fully reckoned with that
hypothesis in making up my convictions. The accusation that it is
merely what I have rejected will be made generally by persons who
have neither studied phenomena like these in general nor adequately
examined the special case before us. They cannot be refuted by any
brief characterisation of the phenomena that I can give here, and
hence I can only deny the analogy which they imagine and challenge
them to reproduce it in the same form and extent without the evidence
of personal identity, as a condition of revising the provisional
hypothesis that I have accepted. It will require very little dispas
sionate study of the dramatic interplay of different personalities to
discover the rationality of supposing them independent intelligences
until the evidence for personal identity in the incidents of the record
is dislodged, and when we observe the vast amount of evidence against
any psychical unity in these personalities and that the dramatic play
of personality is not imitative and mechanical, but intelligent and
adjusted to a rational end, we shall be satisfied to use the comparison
with secondary personality with very great caution, and only as a
280 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
defence against any exposure to illusion. But the moment we
seriously examine the consequences to which the application of
such a theory leads in its appropriation of brain powers without
empirical evidence, and the amount of unconscious deception involved
in the actual intelligence displayed by these phenomena, we shall
wonder whether "spiritualists" have been the only victims of
credulity.
I have spoken all along, however, of secondary personality and its
combination with telepathy as if they were necessarily inconsistent
with spiritism. The reason for this assumed inconsistency is the
evidential problem in the case. But there is a way to look at secon
dary personality, whether with or without telepathy, as a condition of
the proof of spiritism, even though its diversified forms are an obstacle
in evidential matters. By this I mean that secondary personality may
be a transitional state between normal consciousness and the conditions
necessary for communication with a transcendental world.
We must not forget that secondary personality is not very clearly
defined. It is an expression very largely for our ignorance in regard
to many of its conditions and phenomena. We require some phrase
for the activities that seem, superficially at least, to lie between the
presumably mechanical functions of the brain which exhibit no
organising intelligence and those which so completely imitate and
reproduce all the phenomena of consciousness that they cannot
apparently be classified with the former, while the absence of mnemonic
connection with the normal state separates them from that class. But
in spite of their apparent nature as a form of consciousness they are
not accessible to introspection and study of the individual who
experiences them, and hence they must remain more or less unknown
to those who are best qualified to pronounce upon their character and
causes. In addition, however, to this field of ignorance regarding the
matter there is another aspect of it that is equally undefined, and that
is so far favorable to the possibility that secondary personality may be
a transitional condition to that delicate and complex combination of
circumstances under which communications of an intelligible sort from
the dead can be effected. This is the extreme elasticity of the concep
tion which secondary personality represents. It connotes every
condition of subliminal phenomena between somnambulic suggestibility
in which the mind seems entirely passive and those spontaneous
activities that completely simulate another personal mind than the
normal. In this wide gamut every imaginable phase of mental action
between normal consciousness and pure unconsciousness may be repre
sented, and this, too, with interminable degrees of complexity. If the
" subliminal " does not coincide with secondary personality it must
ropresent a still wider field of nescience. But this question aside, the
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 281
extremely elastic conception which secondary personality involves,
having no definable limits except those which circumscribe the nature,
functions and experience of the subject itself, enables us to study
its various phases with reference to the different degrees of spontaneity
and receptivity of which it may be capable. With the dominance of
its spontaneity, whether this consisted in a play upon the subject's own
experience mnemonically separated from the supraliminal conscious
ness, as in automatic writing, somnambulism and hypnosis, or in the
fabrication of a world of its own like dreams and hallucinations
(Of. M. Flournoy's case, From India to the Planet Mars), we should
expect no communications from a transcendental world, even though
the impulse of the subject to action came from that source, but
we should expect only the various play of its own functions on the
material of normal experience, divested of the inhibitions and environ
ment constituted by the psychological conditions accompanying
norma] consciousness. But, on the other hand, just in proportion
to the elimination of this spontaneous action and of the various
influences that determine the limits of active secondary person
ality, we might obtain a condition susceptible of reflecting, like
the sensibility of the physical organism, the influences of an outside
mental world.
Now if we only add to this the possibility that in such a transcen
dental world the normal method of communication is telepathic, we
can understand why, in the ordinary states of secondary personality
where the conditions for telepathic communication even between the
living are not supplied, spiritistic messages of an evidential character
do not occur though the subject be aware of a transcendental stimulus,
and that secondary personality might be a connecting link between
a material and a spiritual world, and so abnormal to both. Unless it
commonly accompanied telepathic phenomena between the living, we
would expect that it should either be wholly eliminated or certain con
ditions realised before we could receive telepathic messages from the
dead. In this connection it may be worth noting as possibly corrobor
ative of this view that telepathy between living minds is extremely
sporadic and capricious. It is subject to conditions that betray no
evidence of reproducing the personality of any one, but conforms to
laws like mechanical forces, namely, impressibility only to present
active energies. Experimental telepathy, as I have often remarked
here, shows no tendency to select teleologically, with a view to repre
senting another's identity, the facts of the agent's or other living
person's memory, but it apparently limits its access to present func
tional action, and eschews quiescent states, precisely as in the
mechanical world where only actual energy effects anything. If then,
we suppose that our messages conform to this law we must assume that
282 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
the telepathy is from the dead and less probably from the living,
especially when it assumes the form and selectivenees of personal
identity. Moreover the stages of secondary personality nearest the
normal consciousness may limit telepathic access, when that occurs, to
sporadic acquisitions in the material world, as its suggestibility is
adjusted to such conditions ; and just in proportion as we suppress or
eliminate this secondary personality in its spontaneous and active form,
and sever its connection from the influence of normal experience and
memory, we may bring the subject into telepathic rapport with the
transcendental world, and messages under these conditions would
naturally reflect the influence of discarnate spirits. If they require to
be in a secondary state in order to communicate, thus cutting them off
from their normal spiritual life, we should expect them to communicate
facts representative only of their past, and these perhaps of a trivial
and confused kind, or even nothing but dream fabrications like our
somnambulistic phenomena and the idiotic rambling like much of the
the secondary personality that has so often passed for spiritistic
messages.
I do not assume, or beg the question here as to the existence of
such a transcendental world, for I know that this is the issue to be
proved. I am only postulating it hypothetically for the better repre
sentation of the complex conditions that may be necessary for
connecting it, if possible, evidentially with the known material world.
Its possibility must be taken for granted because of our ignorance in
regard to the negative. Hence we have only to extend what we know
of both telepathy and secondary personality in order to conceive how
the evidential problem may be solved.
But suppose telepathy may not be the mode of communication in
a transcendental world, there is yet a resource for spiritism in the
complications of secondary personality and that nice balance of its
functions which may be necessary to establish rapport with the trans
cendental life. Now we very seldom find any conscious interpenetra-
tion of the several streams of consciousness in the phenomena of
multiplex personality. The cleavage is almost universally absolute.
Personally I know of but one exception and the facts of this instance
are not yet made public. At any rate, it is so rare that we musD
expect a fortunate combination of circumstances to secure the inter-
penetration of two or more personalities consciously. Whatever the
influences, therefore, that may be brought to bear upon the subliminal
we must expect that they will not often reflect themselves in the
supralimininal, or in actions and evidence properly belonging to the
latter. Now if we remember two things in this situation, (1) that
some motor effect or action, vocal or graphic, is essential in all con
ditions for our knowledge of the mental activity of the subject, and
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 283
(2) that in the usual suspense of normal consciousness, as in sleep,
paralysis, catalepsy, etc., motor functions are also suspended unless by
chance they are accessible to suggestion—if we remember these two
facts, we will understand what a rare combination of circumstances
may be necessary to the retention of motor functions, vocal or graphic,
while secondary personality is reduced to the passive condition possibly
necessary to the receipt of transcendental communications and their
transmission to us through that retained motor action. In ordinary
secondary personality we have the retention of motor functions
possibly because it is active, but in reducing this condition to the
.same passive condition that sleep is assumed to produce for the supra
liminal it would only be natural to suspend these motor functions also.
Consequently we might often, in the complex vicissitudes of these
phenomena, obtain a condition for the reception of messages, but no
conditions for their motor expression. Whatever the mode of normal
communication in a spiritual world may be, therefore, we require
either that the interpenetration of the subliminal, by hypothesis
accessible to communications, with the supraliminal which regularly
controls the machinery of expression, or that condition of eliminated
spontaneity in the transitionary phenomena of secondary personality
combined with the retention of the proper motor functions, so that we
should be able to obtain evidential facts of any kind. The difficulty,
of course, is to be assured of such a condition. But as it is the content
or subject matter of the phenomena of secondary personality as
ordinarily known, and not the state itself, or any knowledge
of what it necessarily is, that has discredited spiritism as usually
maintained, we are entitled at least to ask the question whether
secondary personality may not really be what is imagined here to
be possible, namely, a transitional state between normal consciousness
and the conditions necessary for communication. If this be possible
we cannot consider it as in any way opposed to spiritism except on the
evidential side when its content fails to realise the demands of
that theory. Rapport with the discamate is the desideratum.
One remark here is borne out by the modern theory of hallucinations.
This is that they are due to secondary stimuli. That is to say, they
originate in a stimulus, but in one that is not co-ordinated with the
sense apparently affected by it. To illustrate, an apparition in the
field of vision may be caused by some stimulus in hearing or other locus
of the sensorium, or a sound apparently heard may be due abnormally
to an impression received elsewhere than the ear. In all such cases,
the world of consciousness is not represented by the result of the
stimulus as it is supposed to be in normal sensory experience. That is
to say, the stimulus comes from one world and the representation is of
another. Armed with this conception we may explain those cases of
284 [part
J. H. Hytdop, Ph.D.
alleged and apparent communication in which the content of the
messages is hallucination, secondary personality, or unconscious fabrica
tion. Supposing that the impulse or stimulus came from the trans
cendental world and the representation of the facts from the action of
the subject's own mind, we can understand, on the theory of hallucina
tions, how the conviction that the phenomena are spiritistic should arise
and yet that the content should be manifestly absurd and incredible.
Possibly some of Swedenborg's experiences are explicable on this
hypothesis, and if so, we can understand that the deception apparent
in such mental action is not of the sort to justify the supposition that
it is in any sense diabolic, but is purely automatic and unintentional,
that is, subliminal automatism. I do not mean to imply that any such
condition is frequent, since the field of secondary personality is so large
in which it is not necessary to suppose more than the dream play of
the mind on its own experience, and the natural automatism of the
subject so qualifies the suspicion of fiendish purposes that we may
allow such cases as are here imagined to be very rare, and admit them
only where the subject matter shows a mixture of the veridical messages
and evident hallucination. The suggestibility of the secondary state
is so delicate and its sensory action, like that of dreams, so ready to
explode into products of its own manufacture, that we must in some
way expect to eliminate this spontaneity in order to effect the proper
rapport for genuine communications. That is to say, eliminate the
conditions that tend to produce hallucinations or the fabrications of
secondary personality, and we may obtain genuine messages from a
transcendental world while it will not be necessary to suspect the
diabolic character of secondary personality as an escape from the
cogency of the facts.
f Let me summarise the position here taken. I assume the following :
(1) That the discarnate spirit is in a state of active secondary per
sonality when communicating, possibly at times resembling our hypnotic
condition in some of its incidents at least, and exhibiting various
degrees of clearness and confusion, merging now and then into delirium,
automatism, or complete syncope. This supposition explains both the
triviality and the fragmentary character of the messages, together
with the rapid movement of thought so evident in them. It also
explains easily the occurrence of automatisms. Telepathy between
the living cannot plead any excuse for its limitations in this way,
because the powers that have to be assumed for it would give it access
to any and all incidents of the sitter's memories, important and trivial
alike. (2) That Mrs. Piper is in a state of passive secondary per
sonality, a subliminal condition which reflects or expresses automatically
the thoughts communicated to it. The evidence that this is her con
dition is almost overwhelming. The supposition, then, explains easily
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 285
the limitations of the whole case, and also the fact that the dramatic
play of personality is more consistent with the spiritistic theory than
with that of her secondary personality. Mrs. Piper can hardly be in
an active and a passive state of secondary personality at the same
time. (3) That there is some process of communication between these
two conditions of secondary personality, whose modus operandi is not
yet known. It might be athanato-telepathic in its nature. The
evidence for this at present is insufficient. Or we might find an
analogy in the combination of phonetic and electrical laws in the
telephone, in as much as many of the confusions resemble phonetic
errors. Much can be explained by this supposition that may not be
due to the mental condition of the communicator. (See Appendix
VII., pp. 643-645.) \
There is one more difficulty to be considered that appears to have
some weight in respectable quarters. It is closely connected with the
problem of mistakes and confusions, and is comprehended in the same
general causes. It is usually raised by the same class that takes
offence at confusion. When some alleged communication is presented
as coming from a discarnate spirit the usual questions are : " Why
cannot a spirit be more explicit and definite \ Why cannot it name
certain specific dates or events at once that will immediately identify
it 1 Why so much confusion and loss of memory 1 Why so much
trouble about their names 1 A spirit ought to be able to announce its
name at once and to know that it is imperative to do this at first."
To many this represented disintegration of memory makes the whole
affair appear very suspicious and creates a presumption for telepathy
which we can easily conceive as capricious, and which experience seems
to show is so.
This objection has in a large measure been answered in all that has
been said about mistakes and confusion. But one aspect of it requires
special notice. It is the tendency of certain presumably intelligent
people to a priori decide what a given spirit ought to say to identify
itself. They argue from what they imagine they would do in the same
situation, without really knowing what such a situation is. Unless
the alleged spirit tells a coherent story and indulges in lofty sentiments
in clear language or exhibits some superhuman flights of inspiration,
great truths, etc., they turn up their noses and substitute sneers for
science. It is an objection that reflects more suspicion on the intelli
gence of the man who makes it than upon that of the alleged spirit.
It is strange that an agnostic who has abandoned orthodox dogma
on the one hand, and who has seen the terrible lesson in humility
which the doctrine of evolution has taught man in regard to his
origin against all the poetry and mythology of the past, should
286 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
cling to the theological assumption of some idyllic existence and
perfection for spirits in case they exist at all, and this without one
iota of evidence ! The fact is that scientifically or otherwise there is
no reason to suppose the existence of spirits of any kind, much less that
they represent anything much better than man is now. Every sane and
intelligent man will take the evidence, good or bad, that he can get
and affirm or deny the existence of spirits before saying what they
ought to do as communicators or what estate they shall possess before
believing in them. The chasm which is usually supposed to exist
between an embodied and a disembodied spirit has no excuse for its
existence except the imagination of unscientific men. After the
doctrine of evolution it is absurd to take any cross section of this
process and assume that the next stage of it will mark an immeasurable
distance and degree of progress. It is flatly against all the laws and
analogies of nature to do this, and absolutely inexcusable in the minds
of men who make the slightest profession of science. The existence
of spirits cannot be judged by any a priori ideas that appeal to our
aesthetic sense instead of the actual evidence, and the best way to
treat any objection to them on this assumption is to employ Gibbon's
sneers and to jeer a man out of court. In this, however, I am not
defending the insanities of this subject. I know that plenty of folly
may like to apologise for itself under cover of just this language. But
it is nevertheless a perfectly inexcusable illusion to indulge our
judgments in the assumption that, if spirits exist, they can talk the
language of poetry and inspiration. You may have an indulgent
public in your favor when you trust fancy in its pictures of preter
natural intelligence and powers, but science will only stand by and
mark your faith. Evolution has destroyed the golden age of the
past, and spiritism, with a similar lesson of humility, may destroy
the illusory golden age of the future. From what we know of
the influence of hypnosis upon the consciousness of personal identity
and of physiological disturbances in the brain affecting the in
tegrity of memory, so far from expecting any traces whatever of
personal identity, even if the soul survived as an " energy," we should
rather wonder that any intelligible message should come in the
attempt to communicate. Both from our knowledge of physiology and
from the necessity of intervening obstacles between incarnate and dis-
carnate existence, all the material conditions of our present mental
states and modes of communication being removed, we should rather
expect spirits, even when they retained the consciousness of personal
identity and possessed perfectly clear thought in their own natural
medium, only to squeak and gibber like poor Polly in their effort to
speak to us through such media as must be employed. The amazing
thing is that there should be either any survival at all, or any traces
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 287
of it possible. Hence there is nothing to do but to handle without
mercy every man who is so ignorant of the postulates of scientific
method and of the immense difficulties that must of necessity be
encountered in real communications from a transcendental world as to
ask that spirits should speak the language or exhibit the intelligence
of Plato, of Paul, or of Shakespere. When Pierre Janet could disturb
the ordinary functions of memory by producing anresthesia through
hypnosis, or restore its functions by reproducing local sensibility, we
need not be surprised at the incoherencies of communication, even if
there were, no intervening obstacles to its existence. But add the
latter conditions to the former and the wonder is that the insanities of
spiritualism are not far worse than they are. Physiology also shows
in the localisation of brain functions that we have probably to
distinguish between the centres for the higher psychical activities and
the sensory-motor, putting the former in the prefrontal lobes and the
latter in the area about the fissure of Rolando. (Mills. The Nervous
System and Diseases, pp. 321-352.) The older view supposed that the
motor action of the Rolandic area was unaccompanied by consciousness
even of the sensory sort, so that sensations were associated with con
sciousness or the higher mental activities in general. The memory of
both the sensory and intellectual processes would thus appear to
belong together. But the newer view seems to make the physio
logical distinction between the locus of the intellectual and the
sensory coincide with the psychological distinction from time
immemorial between these two types of consciousness. Unless the
sensory experience were taken up by the intellectual process and
assimilated in its own way, it might be that any disturbance to
the physical conditions of sensation would affect the integrity of
recollection and recognition. Pierre Janet's experiments, showing an
intimate connection between amnesia and anaesthesia and at least
apparently coinciding with the natural implications of the latest
results in the study of the localisation of brain functions, should
throw some light on the possibilities of difficulty in the process of
communication independently of the merely physical and other
obstacles to it, even after the possibility of survival is granted. But
I cannot go into the complexities of this subject without taking more
time and space than this report will permit. I must rely upon the
reader's knowledge of the fact that its complexities are great enough to
justify the rebuke that science is entitled to administer to the pride
and confidence of those who expect communications to be clearer even
than in our telephone.
The difficulty with proper names which is a stumbling block to
many persons in studying these experiments may have an explanation
in the ultimate solution of physiological problems and their perplexities,
288 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
as indicated above. But in the meantime there are some facts that
may explain it without any such appeal. It will be observed by the
student that there seems to be a natural distinction between familiar
and unfamiliar terms in the communications. The phraseology of them
is comparatively narrow, and mistake or confusion often coincides with
the introduction of a term that is not so common as others (Gf, phrase
" United Presbyterian," p. 492). The suspicion is confirmed also by
my experiments in artificial communication where the confusion and
error coincided most generally with the use of proper names and
unfamiliar terms (p. 624). If that be the case it would only be
natural to encounter difficulty in them when communicating with
incarnate beings from a transcendental world, even on the supposition
that the communicator was perfectly clear in his own mind, which is
probably not the case. (See my discussion of this question in Harper's
Monthly Magazine, Vol. CIL, March, 1901, pp. 635-639. Also The
North American Review, Vol. CLXXL, pp. 745-746.) There are other
facts that may contribute to the same conclusion. The psychological
complexities of memory, involving the various relations between intel
lectual, sensory, and motor functions, the relation between different
ideas and the visualising and auralising process, the mental habits of
the individual in the use and recall of not only proper names, but also
unfamiliar words, to say nothing of the difficulties of sending his ideas
through a physical organism which he could not be expected to use as his
own—all these are factors in the explanation of the communications and
their contents on any theory whatsoever, and have to be reckoned with
in telepathy as much as in spiritism. In fact the difficulties in connec
tion with telepathy ought not to be so great as in the case of its rival
theory, as telepathy eliminates both the psychological problems con
nected with the supposed spirit and those of a supposed transcendental
world and is left to contend only with the physiological and psychological
peculiarities of the sitter, in which case there ought to be no difference
in the alleged communications from different persons. But these
differences correspond with what we should expect in the known
differences between individuals, so that both the facts of confusion in
regard to proper names and unfamiliar terms and the manifold
increased difficulties over those assumed on the hypothesis of telepathy
are in favour of spiritism.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 289
CHAPTER VI.
Conci.usion.
It is apparent from all that has been said regarding telepathy and
the objections to spiritism that my predilections lie in the direction of
the latter theory, and I do not require to engage in any lengthy
restatement of the argument. I must simply explain what seems to
me to be the proper scientific attitude to be taken toward such
phenomena as are contained in this and similar records. The
sceptical temper is familiar to all of us, and is the prevailing condition
of general public opinion. To this there can be no objection so long
as it is intelligent and scientific. On the contrary I think we are to
congratulate ourselves on the tenacity and persistence of it, even in its
unintelligent form. But all this scepticism is not conscious of the
reason for its justification, and for various illegitimate reasons goes on
denouncing " spiritualism " from the conceptions of its follies in the
past. The history of " spiritualism " is undoubtedly a heavy incubus
for the scientific man to bear. But whatever that may be, the real
reason for scepticism, which is only a name for caution when it is not
a demand for libertinism, is the momentous character of the conclusion
and the tremendous consequences, philosophical, moral, religious, and
political, that must follow anything like scientific proof of a future life.
Faith no longer charms with her magic wand, except among those who
do not accept or appreciate scientific method, but whose flimsy standards
afford no criteria for defence against illusion and deception. Hence men
who have been saturated, consciously or unconsciously, with the scien
tific spirit either give up the hereafter or insist that their belief shall
have other credentials than authority. Consequently, every institution
connected with social, moral and religious life must be profoundly
affected, whether for good or ill, by such an assurance as that of a
future life, the doubt about which has turned the aspirations of
modern civilisation from the moral to the economic ideal. The
consequences make it necessary that we should not be fooled in
so important a matter as this. We can then well afford to
follow scepticism to the utmost limits before yielding to spiritism, if
only for securing sufficiently rigid standards of truth and maintaining
the right of scientific method to determine the criteria of belief. Our
first duty is to science, and in this we must give the right of way to
scepticism, as the safest provision against illusion, until the audacity
of the theories necessary to support it carries us beyond all evidence
and rationality in the resistance to the alternative view. This is the
u
290 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
only legitimate reason for hesitation regarding spiritism, as the danger
of misinterpretation even in its genuine phenomena is so great that the
obligation to caution cannot be too stringent. The past reputation
and the false conceptions of both its facts and doctrines are not a
valid excuse for the evasion of phenomena that persist in thrusting
themselves upon the attention of science, but are simply warnings
against lowering the standards of truth and defence against illusion.
We may think that the future life as presumably indicated by the
evidence of spiritistic phenomena, even of the highest type, is poor
and meagre at its best, and that nothing ideal can come of its proof.
But however humiliating the facts may be—though they are infinitely
less so than the unscientific imagination supposes—science has no excuse
for evading the issue or following in the wake of popular delusions. It
is the hard sacrifice of human pride and vanity that stand more in the
way of a scientific and respectful consideration of these phenomena
than anything else. I do not admit that the general interpretation of
them is correct, when it repudiates the supposed life implied by them
as unideal and undesirable, since we are not in a position to demand
as yet any such construction of that life as may be necessary to
pronounce upon its character with assurance either way. Personal
identity is the first and only problem to attack at the outset. All others,
if soluble at all, are infinitely more complex and difficult to determine.
Personal identity is hampered by nothing but the conditions of com
munication, which, of course, are numerous enough. It can appeal to
a veritable past. But such a thing as the mode of life in the transcen
dental world, in addition to the obstacles of communication, is
burdened by the want in us of any means for conceiving this life
intelligibly in terms of the experience upon which we usually rely for
the regulation of our lives. We should never forget that the language
employed may easily mislead us, and can be ultimately comprehended
only by the higher faculties trained on the abstraction of sensory ex
perience, and in constructing from the consistency and diversity of the
data, by the higher intellectual processes, a general conception that is
both consistent with itself and with the non-sensory consciousness of
actual life, a conception that cannot be left to the unscientific
imagination to determine. Unfortunately even the professional
scientists too often accept the criteria of the plebs in this matter
■where their energies ought to be employed in correcting it.
It is apparent from all this that I give my adhesion to the theory
that there is a future life and persistence of personal identity, that I
am willing to make it provisional upon the establishment, by the non-
believer in the supernormal of any kind, of sufficient telepathy, in
combination with the other necessary processes, to account for the
whole amazing result. All other questions I put out of court as not
XLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 291
relevant, especially as there is not one sentence in my record from which
I could even pretend to deduce a conception of what the life beyond
the grave is. I have kept my mind steadily and only on the question
whether some theory could not explain away the facts rather than
accept spiritism. But I think that every one without exception would
admit that, superficially at least, the phenomena represent a good
case for spiritism as a rational possibility. The fact of satisfying the
criterion for personal identity can hardly be disputed by anyone on
any theory whatever, whether of fraud, telepathy, or spiritism.
Hence, after excluding fraud, the only question is whether it is more
consistent with the data at hand to believe that they can be better
accounted for by telepathy with its necessary adjuncts than by the
survival of consciousness after death. I do not care how we conceive
this survival, whether in the form of the traditional "spirit," or in
the form of some centre of force either with or without the accom
paniment of a " spiritual body," or again in the form of a continued
mode of the Absolute. With these questions I have nothing to do as
preliminary, but only as subsequent to the determination of personal
identity. I am satisfied if the evidence forces us in our rational
moods to tolerate the spiritistic theory as rationally possible and
respectable, as against stretching telepathy and its adjuncts into
infinity and omniscience.
The objections that I have presented have been considered only as
so much respect to the real difficulties of the problem, as it must appear
to both the casual reader and the student of abnormal phenomena who
cannot so intimately appreciate the pertinence of the facts as can the
sitter, and who justly clings to the rights of scepticism. These
difficulties, however, do not impress me as in reality so formidable as
they appear in the abstract. The only one that offers any resistance
worth serious attention is that which supposes a combination of
telepathy and secondary personality, but the force of even this objec
tion arises from the extremely vague character of it, from certain
accidental and superficial resemblances between secondary consciousness
and the interplay of personality in the Piper case which the uncritical
student does not easily detect in its real nature, and from the failure
of the general statement of the argument to express definitely the vast
implications that it must logically accept when worked out to its
consequences in order to cover the facts. We merely show that
secondary personality explains a number of abnormal mental pheno
mena which some unintelligent people considered spiritistic, and the
habit of dispelling their illusions by that phrase enables us still to use
it as a charm in the defence of scepticism, which in spite of its rights
may easily adopt the tone of dogmatism. But if we once study the
Piper phenomena with due care and patience we shall discover in the
u i
292 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
difference between them and the ordinary facts of secondary conscious
ness a significance in the dramatic interplay of different personalities
that reveals the most apparent realism in the whole performance.
But even telepathy and secondary personality do not exhaust the
suppositions that have to be made. The enormous deception involved
in so persistent and consistent a representation of the spiritistic reality
is of a nature to make one pause. A process assumed to be so
intelligent and acute as it must be to reproduce personal identity in
this manner must know whether it is deceiving or not. Nor can we
stop with the Piper case in making this supposition. This is only one
in many thousands of those that are continually producing phenomena
with an apparent spiritistic import. The only difference between them
and the case before us is that the latter more nearly satisfies the most
rigid demands of science. But all of them represent a constant
attempt to reproduce spiritistic phenomena, and if we are to use the
theory of unconscious deception we have to extend it to the subliminal
of all who have apparitions, mediumistie experiences, spontaneous
coincidences suggesting a spirit origin, planchotte and other writing,
and possibly to the unconscious life of every one of us. Such a
supposition baffles all credibility, scientific or otherwise. But it is the
necessary consequence of the combination of telepathy and secondary
personality, and perhaps of telepathy alone, so that there will no
longer be any excuse for agnosticism holding out against a definite
characterisation of the Absolute as the Devil !
But I regard the contradictions of telepathy as not only breaking
it down, but also as disqualifying any and every form of secondary
personality for a theory to meet the case. We cannot give telepathy,
as we have known it experimentally, the power to meet the demands
of the dramatic play as displayed here without conceiving it so great
as to make its actual limitations and failures absurd, and in defect of
the achievement to successfully realise the functions of the infinite in
small as well as great things, there is no necessity for making any
appeal to secondary personality at all, to say nothing of the diffi
culties against it without supposing that telepathy is its necessary
adjunct. But as I am not dealing at present with the problem of
secondary personality beyond the limits of my own record I shall not
argue against it further. The crucial test of spiritism, in this and all
other cases, must turn upon the question of telepathy to furnish the
data upon which any secondary consciousness has to work. Until it is
more fully studied we shall have to assume that secondary personality
is equal to the task of explaining the dramatic play of personality
and all the non-evidential data, and base our conclusion upon the
insufficiency of telepathy to supply the objective facts in evidence of
personal identity. If telepathy involves a contradiction between the
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 293
powers necessary to account for the true facts and the limitations
displayed in its mistakes and confusions, we need not trouble ourselves
too much regarding the question of secondary personality, though the
unique and realistic interplay of personality in the various communi
cators is a vantage ground for further support of the spiritistic theory.
In considering the telepathic hypothesis and the problem of
personal identity I have not treated all the facts as having the same
weight, even when they were true. I have often been at pains in my
notes to indicate just what truth, or approximate truth, was to be
found in a message. I did not do this because the fact was evidential,
but because I was concerned in showing that amid the confusion
present sufficient meaning might be discovered to prevent considering
the case as positively false. The facts upon which I had to rely for
primary conviction were such that, with or without confusion, their
pertinence was unmistakable. The approximate truths can only be
confirmatory of what might be expected in the way of difficulties in
communication. But the unity of consciousness exhibited both in the
facts that were verifiable and in the memory of certain incidents from
sitting to sitting in which the communicator had a special interest,
especially when we observe the distinctness with which different sitters
are kept apart in spite of the way they are sandwiched in for sittings,
and the synthetic complexity of the facts given, are considerations
that are too realistic to refuse spiritism some scientific charity. When
I look over the whole field of the phenomena and consider the
suppositions that must be made to escape spiritism, which not only
one aspect of the case, but every incidental feature of it strengthens,
such as the dramatic interplay of different personalities, the personal
traits of the communicator, the emotional tone that was natural to the
same, the proper appreciation of a situation or a question, and the
unity of consciousness displayed throughout, I see no reason except
the suspicions of my neighbours for withholding assent. But when I
am asked to admit the telepathy required to meet the case, the amazing
feats of memory involved in the medium's subliminal, the staggering
amount of deception demanded, and the perfect play of personality
presented, as capable of explaining the phenomena without spirits, I
may say, yes, if you choose to believe this against all scientific
precedents. But I am not ready to accept any such appeals to the
infinite, especially when we have only to extend the known laws of
consciousness to account for the facts instead of making such
enormous suppositions for fear of losing our social respectability.
Science is bankrupt when it has to appeal to the infinite. If
that infinite remained self-consistent there would be less difficulty in
tolerating its operations, but when it is a mixture of amazing successes
and absurd failures I am not likely to regard it with much veneration.
294 [PART
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I appreciate materialism, as one who once saw no way out of it and
who had no personal interest in getting out of it. But this was when
the known limitations of consciousness and mental action generally
were correlated with the known limitations of the brain. Consciousness
in such a view is regarded as a functional activity of the organism and
its powers in all accepted physiology and psychology, presumablj*
rational, are confined to what it can receive and do on the spot. But
when it comes to giving the brain the power to spontaneously acquire,
and intelligently select, from any confused mass of memories at an\r
point of time and sp^ce in the whole universe of conscious and
unconscious mentation, and to do this instantly, reproducing perfectly
all the complex facts necessary to establish personal identity, I much
prefer to go outside that brain for my cause, as I am not accustomed
in the use of scientific method to apply the predicates of infinity and
omniscience to that organ ; nor to any individual mind. I may be
mistaken, and if so I shall leave the correction to those who do not yet
believe in telepathy. My preference for the spiritistic theory after
facing the problems just indicated rests on a very simple basis, and it
is that I am not prepared to build any altars to Mrs. Piper's brain,
especially when I am asked to propitiate a diabolic divinity that I
should much prefer to see in the Lucretian intermundin.
It is worth remarking in this contention that, in so far as explana
tory considerations are concerned, spiritism has superior claims
scientifically to telepathy. Spiritism is an appeal to known causes,
the fundamental criterion of all scientific procedure ; telepathy is an
appeal to the unknown (Cf. Footnote, p. 128). 'We know just what an
individual consciousness can do when it exists. In supposing its con
tinuance beyond death we are but extending a known cause beyond cer
tain concomitants and limitations of its terrestrial manifestation. As a
phenomenon it is quite as intangible and invisible in its incarnate con
ditions as it can be supposed to be in the discarnate. We know it
even terrestrially, in others, only by induction applied to certain
physical movements. Hence when we advance spiritism to explain the
Piper and similar phenomena we are but extending known causes
precisely as Newton extended terrestrial gravitation to explain
phenomena previously excluded from its operations. We are using
the same cause to explain the unity of certain facts that we used to
explain them when the person was living. It is telepathy then that
appeals to the unknown, so that the spiritistic hypothesis has one
scientific credential that telepathy has not.
In this conclusion, however, I am going to add a very important
consideration which is the mainspring of the whole discussion and
mentioned in various places only by implication, but which has not
been definitely formulated as I wish to do it now.
xLI.] Observations of Certain Trance Phenomena. 295
This discussion is not designed primarily to convince the reader
that the hypothesis which Dr. Hodgson and myself have adopted and
defended is the true one, that it is the only one to be tolerated in the
premises, but that it is entirely rational to suppose it possible, and that
it explains the phenomena when it is assumed. I offer this record as
some evidence for the spiritistic theory, but not as final proof of it. The
process of forming the personal conviction that it is the preferable one,
" the will to believe or disbelieve," must be left to the individual to
determine for himself. I grant to others the inalienable right to make
any suppositions they please in preference to the one defended here.
But if they intend them for any other purpose than to indicate the
conditions on which they are willing to be convinced of spiritism, if they
intend that their suppositions shall serve as an alternative hypothesis
to the one here advanced, I shall exact of them the production of the
same specific and experimental evidence for the truth and explanatory
power of their assumptions that we have presented in the Piper
phenomena, before they shall -be entitled to scientific recognition. It
is all very well to insist on a high standard of evidence, and to demand
that certain conditions shall be satisfied before accepting the truth of
our hypothesis, or the fact that it is the only one possible, but you
cannot make your personal conversion to this truth a condition or
criterion of the explanatory power ascribed to the spiritistic theory.
The validity of our hypothesis is not conditioned by its power to make
converts to its truth, but only by its capacity for rationally explaining
the facts. Or, to put this in the obverse form, it is no refutation of
the spiritistic theory to say that you are not convinced of its truth, or to
demand that we eliminate the infinite from it in order to establish it.
The asserted alternate hypothesis must be supported by independent
facts that make spiritism either impossible or superfluous. If spiritism
were not actually explanatory of the facts this demand could not be
pressed, inasmuch as the present record could then be quoted as
evidence for telepathy. But the necessary admission that spiritism
will explain the case imposes upon the rival theory the obligation to
supply experimental evidence independently of this record to prove
that telepathy, with its adjuncts, can reproduce as perfectly the
personal identity of a living consciousness as Mrs. Piper produces that
of the deceased.
To repeat them, the main object here is not to convince the reader
that spiritism is the only hypothesis to be entertained, but that it is
rational to suppose it as one of the possible explanations. To me it is,
at present at least, decidedly the preferable one. At any rate, if it
has relevant facts representative of personal identity to depend upon
and suggesting an appeal to the infinite to escape spiritism, it becomes
a legitimate alternative and working hypothesis among all that may
296 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
be proposed. On this ground we shall be able to retort upon those
who make their personal conviction or conversion a criterion of the
explanatory power of spiritism, or who advance alternative suppositions
for explaining the phenomena, that they furnish experimental evidence
involving, not the fact of telepathy as we know or suppose it between
the living, but the kind of telepathy that will reproduce the unity of
consciousness and personal identity in conjunction with the proper
dramatic play of personality found in these records, but which would
not permit in any case a resort to discarnate spirits to account for it.
Until this evidence is forthcoming they can have no standing in a
scientific court. In the meantime I am content to have suggested
with Dr. Hodgson the nature and extent of the considerations which
must be experimentally proved in order to refute the hypothesis which
is here defended. When this result is effected it will be time to
reconsider the position here taken.
XLI.] 297
Appendices.
APPENDICES.
Preliminary Note.
The reader will naturally desire to know how my sittings were
appointed, and what was Mrs. Piper's previous knowledge of myself.
I had met Mrs. Piper in the early part of the year 1892 at the house
of Dr. Thaw in New York, at a meeting where some "mediumistic
trick " performances were illustrated. (See Proceedings S.P.R., Vol.
VIII., p. 307.) I did not make her acquaintance in any special way,
but was only introduced to her. Some time afterwards, I had the
latter part of a sitting with Mrs. Piper, entering the room and taking
my place as sitter while she was in trance. I talked with her, however,
after she came out, for some fifteen or twenty minutes. The following
is the contemporary record of my sitting.
May 20th, 1892.
[Mr. J. H. Hyslop has fifteen minutes after Mr. Dow's sitting. See
Proceedings, S.P.R., Vol. XIII., p. 570.]
[Phinuit talking.]
How are you ? You're a pretty good fellow. [Something about folks at
home.]
Who's John ? [I admitted that my name was John, though not true.]
There's an old gentleman in the spirit belongs to him. Gentleman's father.
Your father. He wants to call John. Who's John ? You have had some
difficulties. I want to help. He's all mixed up. Tell my son John I want
to help him out of it. He wants you to answer.
There's a lady in the body has some trouble with her head. Who is it
they call Mary ? Very closely connected. She has some trouble in her
head. You needn't worry. She gets nervous. A bright woman. [These
incidents in the main are correct.] A little catarrhal trouble in the head.
What's the matter with her foot ?
A friend will help him financially as well as mentally. [Correct.] You
do something. I don't know how to illustrate it, as it's something to do
with the brain. [Touching head.] It has something to do with the develop
ment of the brain and with thought. [Correct.] You keep on and you will
do well. You have developed it well. Sometimes you get all knotted up.
[The reference to my mental confusion contains a very interesting fact. For
a few weeks previous I had been reflecting on the relation between inhibition
and responsibility, and on the day preceding the sitting it suddenly occurred
to me that I could prove my point by the figures representing the relation
between association time and will time. I spent the afternoon looking up
298 [part
/- H. Eyslop, Ph.D.
the matter, but found myself disappointed in the result, although thoroughly
convinced that I was correct in the main principle. About a month later I
solved tho problem. But Phinuit's statement cannot be made a prediction,
because, in connection with correctly indicating the recency of my thought
and the present confusion, which exactly described the condition of the
previous day, he merely indicated by the promise of success the confidence
I had that I was correct.]
[In my original note I neglected to say that " Mary " is the name of my
wife. (May 2nd, 1901.)—J. H.H.J
You're getting some very good ideas.
You're going to have a long holiday. Your lady is going with you. Over
a small body of water. [Correct.]
[A long, distinct story now told about a Fred Ellis, who years ago fell
into the water by a bridge, and was pulled out. Something about little
sacks. Sitter has no knowledge of such person.]
So far as I am aware, I never saw Mrs. Piper again or had any
communication with her till I went out to Arlington Heights on
December 23rd, 1898.
The sittings which form the subject of my present report were
arranged for in the following manner. I had written in August (1898)
to Miss Edmunds for them, but had concealed myself under the
pretence of wanting them for some one else. Of this I was very
careful, but Mrs. P. was absent on her vacation, and the plan fell
through. After Dr. Hodgson's return to this country I wrote to him
for sittings, and, in order not to allow Miss Edmunds (who had never
met me, and who had only corresponded with me) to know my plans,
I asked Dr. H. not to tell her. The letter was forwarded to him
unopened, he being at Bar Harbor at the time. In the course of
the correspondence arranging the sittings, a vague letter of mine to
him, misaddressed by myself to the office instead of to Dr. H.'s rooms,
gave a chance for Miss E. to guess the case, but only to guess it from
the handwriting, as the contents of the letter betrayed nothing. She
seems to have suspected it, but says she did not breathe my name to
any one.
I was ateo very careful not to tell any one in New York of my
intentions except my wife, who was counselled to keep quiet, and
also Professor Butler on Saturday, tho 17th December, 1898, a letter
to him asking for trinkets from some deceased friend having been
mailed in the morning, if I remember rightly. No others bad the
slightest information of my plans. The whole responsibility, there
fore, for fraud in the case will fall upon myself, Dr. Hodgson and
Miss Edmunds. (See Note 1, p. 344.)
It will be interesting to remark, a propos of fraud in the case, that
the first sitting is absolutely absurd upon the supposition. Much
could have been found out about me and communicated to Mrs. P. by
Appendices. 299
Dr. Hodgson, either of my life in New York, or earlier in the West. -If
I mistake not, there is a bibliographical dictionary with a pretty full
account of my career and work after entering college. I was not
even identified by the alleged spirits claiming me as son and brother,
and the apparent allusions to a brother and a sister who died long ago
represent events which I could not verify if I tried, except from a
rather meagre memory of my own, and from the testimony of two
aunts who know nothing of them except by hearsay.
There is, of course, no interest in all this except for the careful
reader and critic who may wish to know exactly the preceding facts
and the relation which the contents of the first sitting sustain to
them.
I append the statement of Dr. Hodgson.
I disclosed to no one the identity of Professor Hyslop, and I made arrange
ments with the trance-personalities for his first series of sittings by referring
to him as a friend who wished to go four times. The following comprise all
the passages dealing with the matter.
[Rector writing.] . .
Novemher 12th, 1898.
. (I have two friends, one of whom wishes to see you four times
in succession, and another who would probably desire to see you as often as
ton times. They are both seekers, but I cannot say how far you might find
them helpful or otherwise. You might say after the first time that they
must not come, but they have both been helpful to my work on the earthly
side, and if I could arrange for them I should be pleased for you to do what
you can.)
Friend, we will always do the right, and if they are worthy persons and
their friends sincere and worthy here, we will give them help and light.
(Yes.) Nothing could give us more happiness than to help all worthy
mortals. We desire of all things else to give and help all of God's children.
. . . [Arrangements for other sitters.]
(Then I think that Mrs. M. may wish two more days after that, but you
can arrange with her later. Then come the four times which I should
arrange with one of my friends whom you have not seen. He cannot easily
come at any other time.)
Well, friend, we cannot agree to this. We must have some day between
for restoration of the light for good results for him. (Yes. You
will . . .)
[Hand indicates by slight movements that I am to wait as it is listening
to invisible.]
Listen kindly. (Yes.)
We would prefer to meet him before we see Mrs. M. the last few times,
earlier, owing to the supply of light.
(He cannot come, except at those times, until about five weeks Inter.
Perhaps you would prefer that.)
We would, as we would have the best conditions for him (Yes. . . .)
and during the week of his presence wo would have none other. (Very good).
300 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
, . . [Arrangements for other sitters.]
(. . . and you will make fresh arrangements after that later).
Yes, but we repeat that during the presence of thy " four times" friend
we must see no other.
(Yes. I understand. Later.) . . .
November 24t/i, 1898.
. . . (About Christmas time, just two days before and two days after
the Christmas day, would it be possible for you to see the " four times "
friend ?)
It will be well. (Then I can tell him so, as there is no other time for
him.) Yes + (Thank you.) We will arrange all here. . . .
How are you, H. . . . Anything I can do for you 1
(Yes. That George ?)
Yes. I . . . He + asked me to speak and ask you whether I could
help you out a bit when your almighty friend arrives.
(Yes. I shall be very pleased to have your assistance.)
You may count on me, H. By Jove, I am glad to see you back, old
chap, I can tell you. . . .
December Uth, 1898.
. . . (And on the two immediately following days after her comes the
" four times " friend.) It is well.
December 15th, 1898.
■ . . There is to be one friend on the first day after the Sabbath, and
our friend C. on the second (Yes) and the third open (Yes) the fourth Mrs.
Z. (Yes) and thy four times friend thereafter (Yes.) . . .
December 2Ut, 1898.
... What hast thou to say about our meetings here for thy friend 1
(Do you mean the four times friend 1) Yes, we desire to send another
messenger and will do so then. . . . We have arranged for a meeting
with thy four times friend, the second day, also the third. (Yes.) . . .
—R. Hodgson.
The records which follow are complete, and no names have been
changed in matters concerning myself or my friends. It will be
noticed that in several places references are made, in conversation
between the trance-personalities and Dr. Hodgson, to other sitters,
and in some of these cases initials only or pseudonyms are given,
instead of the real names.
The sittings, which usually lasted about two hours, from about
10.15 a.m. to about 12.15 p.m., were all held at Mrs. Piper's house in
Arlington Heights, Mass., about half an hour by train from Boston.
Every word said by Dr. Hodgson or myself at the sittings is
recorded, excepti that in one or two instances, noted where they
i Except also such phrases as, f'One moment, Rector," or "Wait a moment,
please," used by Dr. Hodgson when it was necessary to turn over the paper, when
the writing was being superposed, or when the hand was going over the edge of the
writing pad.
XLI.] 301
Appendices.
occur, several words addressed to Dr. Hodgson were inaudible to
him, and also that I did not myself succeed in recording absolutely
every word spoken by myself during Dr. Hodgson's absences from the
room during the first sitting. The record of the writing by Mrs. P.'s
hand is also complete, except that I have only occasionally incorporated
the word " Yes" when written by the trance personalities in acknow
ledgment of Dr. Hodgson's correct reading of the original writing.
When the "Yes " is a response to a question, however, it is, of course,
included. Dr. Hodgson recorded my remarks, which I tried to speak
very slowly, partly that the record of them should be complete, and
partly to facilitate the clear comprehension of my words by the trance-
personalities. Besides recording my remarks as I made them, Dr.
Hodgson also copied nearly all the writing by Mrs. P.'s hand as it was
written, and shortly after each sitting we completed the record by a
careful comparison with the original writing (see also statements on
p. 14, and footnote on p. 29).
There are some cases of curious spelling by the " machine " which
I have thought worth indicating in their proper places. I have
inserted these, where they occur, in square brackets immediately
after the words which they represent. For example, " lapse [laps] "
(p. 407). This means that the word in the original automatic writing
was written laps.
I should add perhaps that the punctuation is not restricted to that
of the original automatic writing, where there is a deficiency of it. The
marks in the original are practically confined to periods and interro
gation points. A mark like a period seems to serve for the most part
indifferently for any pause. The repetitions of words or phrases in the
record were generally owing to our inability to decipher them at once
when they were written the first time. Repetitions due to other causes
will be noted when they occur unless their origin is obvious from the
text (as for example in the emotional repetitions of my father near the
beginning of the second sitting). Occasionally in the record of the
automatic writing the brackets { } are found. In the original those
brackets were made ( ).
The notes embodied in the records of the sittings are, except as
otherwise dated, contemporary with the sittings ; that is to say, they
were written on the days of the sittings or shortly afterwards. Some
additional notes made later will be found at the end of the first series of
sittings (p. 344), and others, made later still, at the end of the third
series. Page references to these later notes will be found in the course
of the records of the sittings. I have preserved the chronological order
to a large extent by this arrangement, and a comparison of my own
notes made at different times affords, in my opinion, an instructive
lesson concerning sundry difficulties not sufficiently appreciated by the
302 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
ordinary inquirer into the psychological problems before us. It will
be seen, for example, in more than one striking instance, that whereas
in my early notes I condemn certain statements as inconsistent with
any origin from my father's mind, in my later notes, made after special
inquiries, it appeared that these statements were entirely relevant and
that they pointed distinctly to the identity of my father. I must warn
the student then expressly that he cannot estimate the value of any
incident in the detailed record of the sittings without consulting all
the notes concerning it, the later ones as well as the earlier ones. I
have taken special pains, in the appropriate places, to give all the
references needful to notes elsewhere.—J. H. Hvsi.op.
xLI.] Appendix I. 303
APPENDIX I.
This Appendix contains the records of my four sittings on
December 23rd, 24th, 26th, and 27th, 1898, with contemporary notes,
and also additional notes embodying the results of later inquiries.
Sitting I.—December 23rd, 1898.
Introduction.
Dr. Hodgson and myself arrived at Mrs. P.'s about 10 o'clock a.m.
I had provided myself with a cloth mask, covering the whole face,
such as is used at mask balls. This I put on before leaving the coach
in which we rode from the station. Under this concealment I went to
the door and into the house, upstairs, where we met Mrs. P. in her
room. I was introduced to her as Mr. Smith. I merely bowed,
without uttering a sound, and did not speak a word until after she
had gone into the trance.
These precautions were taken owing to my having met Mrs. Piper
in 1892, as described above (p. 297), in consequence of which it might
be said that she had a chance to recognise me, though at that time I
had no beard, while I now wear one. But the mask effectually
concealed my face, so that no recognition was possible under any
ordinary circumstances.
I had, under the mask, a good opportunity to study Mrs. P.'s
reception of me. As I was introduced she caught sight of the mask,
and, seeing its meaning, broke out into a laugh at Dr. Hodgson, and
remarked that only once before had such concealment been used. The
laugh and manner were apparently genuine, though she could have
seen us from the window coming into the house from the coach. I
could not detect any simulation in the laugh or manner. They bore
every external trace of sincerity.
Presently, after dusting some articles in the room, Mrs. P. sat
down upon her chair for the trance. Pillows had been placed in front
of her for her head to lie upon while entranced. I sat some three or
four feet away where I could closely watch the trance coming on. She
sat quiet and no indications of the trance occurred for some time, say
three or five minutes. Then I noticed a few slight jerks of the head, and
some twitching of the right eyebrow, Mrs. P. picking the while at her
finger nails. Both stopped in a few moments, and no trace of the
trance was to be remarked. Mrs. P. then leaned forward upon the
304 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
pillows, closed her eyes, rubbed them, with her face somewhat flushed
for a few moments, then opened her eyes, slightly straightened up,
used her handkerchief, returned to picking her finger nails, and
assumed a slightly fixed gaze. I then noted a gradually changing
expression in her face. It had lost its flush, and there was some
thing of a pallor in it, though very slight and only noticeable perhaps
in contrast with the previous flush. But the most notable change
in the expression was one that is hard to describe. The whole mus
cular appearance of it was less drawn than when I was introduced
to her, and seemed fuller and more flabby, if that word can be used.
Her mouth, also, was a little drawn on one side, and the gaze became
more fixed. Her mouth soon opened and she passed easily without
a struggle into the trance, with something of the appearance of a
faint.
I then changed my position behind and to the right of her so that
I could watch and read the writing, not a word being said by myself in
the meanwhile. Nor was I at this or at any time during the trance
either in contact with her or where she could see me, her whole face
being turned away from me and buried in the pillows. Sitting there
behind and to the right of her, I soon noticed the muscles on the hand
at the third finger begin to twitch. Soon the whole hand began to
shake and then reached out and down to write. A. pencil was placed
in her hand, and the twitching continued for a few moments, and the
hand again raised itself in the air, but immediately lowered itself to
write.—J. H. H. (See Note 2, p. 346.)
Record of Sitting, December 23rrf, 1898.
S. and R. H.
[Rector writes.]
Rector: (R. H. : Good morning, Rector.) Good morrow friend of
earth. We see old friend and we welcome thee here. We see all that thou
hast done since we met thee last, and we are pleased with all that is coming
to thee. Didst thou receive our messages 1 We know it will be better for
thee as we have told thee before.
(R. H. : Yes. I have not yet seen the last visitor to you, but will see her
this evening. And I have heard from Mrs. C. They wish me to be present
with them to-morrow morning, but I said that I should probably have to be
here. )
We think not. We will answer thee after we have finished with the
. . the other . . other matters, and Ned has finished.
(R. H. : Who has finished ?)
Ed . . (R. H. : Oh, that other word is Ned?)
Yes. Then we will give our answer. We wish to carry out our arrange
ments with . . .
(S. to R. H. : Can't read a word of it.)
(R. H. : Yes. I understand. Yes.)
xLI.] Appendix I. 305
Mrs. Z. and then we . . answer for thee here. [The word atmcer
apparently superposed on the toe. I have observed other similar cases, where
the intention evidently was to obliterate the previous word.—R.H.]
Here comes George . . . here comes George. After we have
finished there. (R. H. : Yes, I understand.)
He is smiling and holds his hands in greeting to thee . . . greeting.
Yes. All is as I told you and will ever be. What did you think when
you got my message ? All is well.
Now we have much to say to another light present.
We will soon leave George to answer for thee.
[Cross in air.] [repeated after listening.] i
It is as we would have it. And now friend we leave [?] thee to . .
Going. Good-bye. Rector.
[G. P. writes.]
How are you, old chap ? (R. H. : First rate, George.) I want to see who
has come to greet me here. Long time since 1 have seen you.
But every thing is as I saw it would be.
(R. H. : Yes. Are you talking to me, George ?) Yes. (R. H. : Yes,
it is.)
Yes. I have a great deal more to do for you yet.
I. S. D. wished to send Prudens, but could not make him clear. (I
understand.)
We are going to speak presently to this other light. Hear [superposed
on other] hear. I will go to New York and see if I can find his books for
him. He left them there. I mean they are in the library, and I will direct
him where to find them. I wish Carlie . .
(S.: Can't read that.)
Charlie had not been in such haste. . . . He could have found out
all about them from me . . them from me. Now here is a lady, [recorded
by R. H. and probably read by him aloud at the time as " there is a lady "]
present who desires to speak. Will you leave me for a moment, Hodgson,
and return soon 1 I wish to bring Prudens to take my place, if possible.
Hear.
(R. H. : All right. I go.)
Hear. Return presently . . .
[R. H. goes out.] [S. noted his questions at the time.]
and let me see if I can bring Prudens, and I will stand up and help
him out. (I can't read it.)
Try and hear us . . . hear us. (I can't read it. )
Try and hear us.
And I will bring [probably read aloud by J. H. H. as try] and make you
understand me.
(Yes, I understand.)
I wish to bring your friends to you.
(Is any friend of mine there ?)
1 Whenever the word "listening" is used in the record after the manner
indicated here it means that the hand appeais to be listening to what a "spirit " is
saying. (See Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 399.)
X
306 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Yes, and he wishes to speak to you at once. There are two. And one is a
lady, and she belongs to you and she wishes me to speak to you for her. I
want to reach you now. Do not hear me. I wish you to see her.
[R. H. returns.]
I must try and speak as clearly as possible to him, Hodgson. I will do
my best to speak plainly.
(R. H. : Yes. Good.)
I wished to help this gentleman to find his friend on earth. I wish he
could understand me clearly. Will you not try, kind friend, to hear me ?
(S. : Yes.)
We have a great deal to do for you and will if you will only try to hear us.
(R. H. : George, shall 1 go out again, and you try to write slowly and
clearly so that he may be able to read ?)
I will try and do my very best to make myself understood by him.
(R. H. : Yes. Can you write still more slowly ?)
I will try but I am not alone, remember that, because there are others
talking to me here, and I am anxious to help them and they are anxious to
reach hiin, so I will do the best I can. I . . .
(R. H. : George, I can read this all right, but my friend here cannot.)
Well I will try again. You know how anxious I am to do all I can for
you. . .
(S. : Yes. I believe it.)
even now, Hodgson. Although I am far away I will still do my very
best in all cases for you.
[Meanwhile the writing has become slower and more legible.]
(R. H. : Well, George . . . )
God knows if there is any thing that I can do / will.
(R. H. : George, I will go out again, and he will make another attempt
to read.)
I am sure we will understand each other soon.
(S. : I can't read all of it.)
And if I can I can do so much better because I can prevent confusion
(S. : All right) if I can only bring his friends without yours, H.
[R. H. goes out.]
(Can you find any friend of mine ?)
Yes, I do find a little girl who passed . . .
(Does she tell you her name ?)
I will ask her soon. (I don't read.)
I will ask her presently and . . and she wishes to find you . .
she wishes to find you, and she is here with me now.
(What is last word ? ) with me now. (Does she tell you her name i )
Not yet. No you . . . not yet but she will. Do not hurry her. She
is here with a lady and they both belong to you . . belong to you, and
the lady sees her gloves. [No meaning in the reference to the gloves.—
J. H. H.] [No gloves taken to sitting.]
(Who is this lady?)
Do you remember anything about Margaret ?
(Last word I do not understand.) [By this remark I meant that I did
not decipher the word Margaret.—J. H. H.] [I think I had an older sister
XLI.] 307
Appendix I.
by this name who died when I was two years old.—J. H. H.] [See Note 5,
p. 349.]
She . . She is calling MOther. I am she and I see Lillie is . . is
[No meaning.—J. H. H.] [See Note 5, p. 349 and p. 331.]
(What is the last word ? ) Is with me here, dear little thing. Do you
know who I am ? Giv . . Give me my gloves. (I do not understand last
word.) Give me my gloves. Will will speak. Speak. I want you to give me
my gloves. (Yes. Have you seen any one else ? ) Yes I have and she is also
with me . . . and with me ... I am with ... I am speaking
of Henry [?]. [Seep. 22.]
(What is the last sentence ?) I am with her. (With whom 1) Yes I
have A ... A * * * [undec., possibly either Alice or Annie.]
(Is it Alice ?) Alice. (Alice who ?) I do not say Alice, I say Annie.
[Not deciphered by S.] [See Notes 3, p. 347 and 5, p. 349.]
(Have you seen any one else ?) Do you remember anything about your
Brother? (Who is the gentleman ?) I say Brother. I am your ... I
know I am, and ...
(When did you pass out ?)
When did I pass out . . . only a long time ago.
(Any other member of the family ?)
Yes, two. I have seen Annie, and mother, and Charles, and Henry.
(Ir this Charles Henry ?) No. Charles. (Did he pass out before you 1)
Did he . . . No. I do not hear, did you say before ?
[No note of what S. said here.]
Yes, he did. Some time before. And when I came he helped me.
[See Note 18, p. 361.]
[I had a brother Charles and a sister Annie who died within twelve days
of each other about 1865. Margaret, if I am right in the name, died in
1856 or 1858, two or four years old, too young to give any meaning to these
statements except the correct coincidence in the names. The refusal to
accept my suggestion here of the name " Charles Henry" is correct.] [See
Note 5, p. 349, and also p. 22.]
(Can you say with what you passed out ?)
Oh, yes, perfectly. Do you remember I passed out rather suddenly at
last? Hear—do you hear? (Yes. I heard.)
I had trouble with my head [ 1 ] and it affected my heart. [Cf. pp. 327-
329.] Do you remember the trouble I had with my head ? Speak.
(Have you seen brother George ?)
I spoke of him before. Will you tell me if you understand me now?
Do you hear me ? (I do not understand. ) I say give me my hat. [Gf. p.
313, and Note 6, p. 350, Note 18, p. 362.] [No hat taken to sitting. I
presented an accordion. Hand felt it.— J. H. H.] i
i The use of articles worn or handled by the deceased when living is said to " hold
them " in the act of communicating. I do not speculate as to what this means or
why it should be done. We have simply found by experience that it is best to
conform to this requirement and that the iesults are in some way affected by the
"influence" of such articles, whether their use appears rational according to our
preconceived notions of the case or not. (Compare Proceedings Vol. VIII., pp. 18-27
and 56-57.)
x 2
308 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
This was not mine but his. It belonged to George. [Not true —
J. H. H.]
Not . . . and the little girl ... I say do you hear me ?
(It belonged to some one else. )
It belonged to me ... I say it belonged to * * [undec. any
better ? myfather ? ] who is here. Charles.
(Is he with you ?)
Yes. I can just hear and that is all.
[S. asks if R. H. shall return.]
For a moment. [S. calls R. H.]
I used to play on this. [Possibly correct, but it can have no significance,
oecause my fingers slipped as I carried it to the table, and the bellows fell,
making a musical tone, which could be a clue to Mrs. P.'s subliminal. (About
January 10th or 12th, 1899).—J. H. H.]
(Who used it ?) I am sure of it. I know we are brothers, and I know
where . . where I am. I can hear you scarcely, and that is all.
You will have to have patience with me, friend, for there are three
persons here who are all speaking to me at one . . at once. One is calling
mother, and the other is calling Charles, and the other is calling for you.
(R. H. : Shall I stay now ?)
Better for a while until I see if I can keep the lady clear.
(R. H. to S. : Let the drifting incoherence end first.)
I want very much to reach my son, and I know I see some one who
resembled him. I have four sons. Two are here, and I have his wife with
me also.
(S. : That's all wrong.) [Five sons and one daughter living ; two
daughters and one son dead, and one dead whose sex I do not know. My
wife still living.—J. H. H.]
I do not hear all she is saying, but I will very soon.
Yes. Where is Albert ? (S. : Albert ?)
(R. H. : Is that Albert ?) [Do not know any Albert or Alfred.]
Sounds like Alfred. It is not quite right yet, but will be.
Do you remember anything about Mr. Morse 1
(S. : No, I do not.)
He used to know father well, and he has a sister with \with superposed
on sister] sister with me.
(S. to R. H. : Doesn't mean anything to me. There's nothing with any
possibility in the whole thing except Charles.)
And I am sure of him. I say I wish you to hear me. Do not try if you
cannot. The name is Walter . . name he Walter, and he is still in the
body.
(S. : No. It means nothing.)
I hear him calling it now.
(R. H. : Who is calling it, George ?)
He says he is his brother. Of course, I do not actually know, only what
I hear him saying. He seems very anxious to reach this friend in the body,
and I know he will be clear soon as Rector is helping him. Won't you
please try and hear me now, friend ?
(S. : Yes, I will.)
xLI.] Appendix I. 309
Do, if possible, because it is difficult for me to keep any one out who
ought not to speak now.
Hodgson, it is too bad ; but I cannot half hear when you are present.
(R. H. : Very good. I will go out.)
Will you kindly return as soon as I can see what I can do with these two
spirits present ?
[R. H. goes out.]
I cannot keep the lady from talking, neither can I keep the young man
who claims to be your brother. Come here and listen. Do you remember
anything about . . . Will you kindly help me to keep his thoughts
clear ? (I do not understand). Your Brother. I say do you know who
Edwards is ? (No.) [Francis Edwin is the name of my youngest brother,
though if the middle name was ever referred to at all it was often called
Edward by my father. Edwin and Edward were interchangeable to him.
(November 3rd, 1899).—J. H. H.] But you must (I can't read it).
But you do know me, and do you remember the fever ? I had a fever.
(What fever ?) I had a fever, and they said it was Typhoid. (I do not get
the last sentence.) They said I had Ty . . . Typhoid. Cannot you
understand ? (Not yet). [Charles died of scarlet fever and measles.—
J. H. H.] My throat. My throat. I had a very bad throat, and it
took me over here. [See Note 5, p. 349]. (Yes). Because the membrane
formed in my throat. And I did not know any one (Yes. Right.) before I
left my body.
[The word "here " in the original automatic writing, in the phrase " took
me over here," was written "there" by Dr. Hodgson in his copy made at
the sitting, and was probably due to a kind of metathesis of my brother's
point of view to his own. The automatic writing was perfectly clear and
unmistakable (April 14th, 1900).—J. H. H.]
(Do you know any one now ?)
I am coming closer. Yes, I am coming nearer to you, and in a little
while you shall know all about us all. I think [thingk] I have been here a
good many years, and I do not know all of my . . .
(Have you seen mother ?) She is here with me. She is all right. She
came here after I did. (Yes. Right.) And I saw her coming. And she
could not eat. [Mother died after Charles. Statement about her not being
able to eat is unverifiable (May 1st, 1901).—J. H. H.]
(Have you seen any one else besides mother V)
Yes, I have. Do you remember she had a sister who was in the body
when I . . I passed out? (Yes. Right.) But she came here too, and she
came after mother. [Correct (November 3rd, 1899).—J. H. H.] (Who is it?)
[See Note 5, p. 349.]
Then there is another one who is here and she is nearer to you than all
the rest of us, and she will soon be able to tell you all you would care to
know. And [written on top of filled sheet] and she is so glad to see you here,
but she cannot speak as she will in a little while. [See Note 5, p. 349.]
Where is Will? (Is that Willie ?) Yes. (He is out West.) [Correct name
of living brother.—J. H. H.]
You do not know . . . give him our love. And in a little while he
will be with us. (Yes.) He has a . . . some time yet. I want you to
310 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
know who I am bringing to you. (Who is it ?) She cannot leave until she
is clear and can tell you what she has on her mind.
Do you know she came here last ? Now do you know ? (Yes.)
Do you remember who you used to call Ell . . el [?] . . . not dis
tinct . . . Where is Robertson ? (What name ?) Robertson. (Robert ?)
Yes. (Have you seen him ?) I have not lately. Did you ask me if I had
seen him ? (Yes.) No, I have not.
[Brother Robert still living.—J. H. H.] [C/. pp. 314, 317, 332.]
(Have you seen any one else who died lately ?)
Yes. I am trying to help her to come to you. Do you hear ? (Yes.)
And I will tell her you are . . .
[See Note 19, p. 362]
(Time of year passed out ?) I want to tell you everything I can remember.
I think it was winter (Right) because I remember seeing it snow. [Right.]
(Where was I ?)
I think you were not with me. I do not think I saw you at all before I
came here. [If this refers to the time of his death it is true. It had
snowed the day of his death or the day before. I was sent to a neighbour
on an errand on the day of his death and lingered too long, and when I
returned, I was shocked by my mother's telling me that my brother Charles
had died. I remember distinctly that the ground was covered .with snow as
I went on this errand —J. H. H.] [Gf. pp. 24, 25.]
(Have you seen mother ? )
Oh, yes. She says it is better so. If she . . i . . had not come
soon it would have been worse. Do you hear me ? Well, what did you
mean by asking for George.
(I wanted to know if you remembered George.) [Gf. p. 307.]
Yes, but George is here. I say George is not here.
(Do you say George is not here ? )
I say no, he is not, and I could not understand why you asked me if he
was here. Neither is he coining for a while yet. He is well and doing well
and so be it. [Correct about George.—J. H. H.] [The reader should re
member that the amanuensis here is G. P., a person whose first name was
actually George, and the omission of the "not" in the first statement may
have been due to a misapprehension on hie. part as to the George meant in
my question. (April 19th, 1900).—J. H. H.]
I think you will remember Corrie ? (No, I do not.) No wait a moment.
(Is it Mary ?) I say it is, and she was father's sister. [See Note 5, p. 349.]
(I do not understand.) [i.e., couldn't read.]
Cannot you hear me 1 Elizabeth. ("Elizabeth"?) Yes. Mary. Do
y [on top of filled sheet] do you not remember ? Listen. She was your mother's
sister. Do you hear? (Not quite.) She was our aunt. She is our aunt.
[See Note 5, p. 349.] (What aunt?) * * [Undec., probably Allen or
Ellon.] And she will come to you again when I get stronger . . stronger.
I will .... [Allan could have one possible meaning (Cf. p. 422) and
Ellen two. (April 20th, 1900).—J. H. H.]
[R. H. returned a short time before this point and arranged sheets, etc.,
on other side of room preparing for departure, while S. continued to follow
the writing.]
Appendix J. 311
(R. H. : George, we shall have to go directly. This gentleman is coming
again to morrow.)
Wait until I get + to take away this young man . . . young man.
(B. H. : All right.)
[S. rises and moves across the room.]
He walked right in front of him. Why does he do this ?
(R. H. to S. : Better keep still. Yes.)
I will speak to you again and tell you all about the rest whom I . .
whom I have seen over here since I left so many years ago. Good-bye.
They are taking me away.
Hodgson, I hope to get the lady clear again . . clear. (R. H. : Good.)
Good-bye, H. (R. H. : Good-bye, old chap.) Come . . Come and meet
us when you can.
[Rector writes.]
(R. H. : Shall I come with this gentleman to morrow ?)
Rector. Have Prudens clear soon. How can we manage the light
without thee 1
(R. H. : I think it will be necessary for me to accompany him.)
+ He says so and does not think that thou canst complete thy work
without coming. [The cross is usually the symbol for Imperator.]
The light is failing—failing. Come to us. Fail us not, oh friend.
Thou knowest not our necessities. R.
(R. H. : I will be here to-morrow.)
+ All is well. May God be with thee both. + jg,
[When G. P. left, Rector came in with a sudden jerk of the hand,
and then the writing became calm as usual. As soon as he was
through, Mrs. P. began to come out of the trance. First I noticed
much twitching of the hand and arm, followed by a noise like snoring.
Presently the head was raised, the mouth opened, and the eyelids very
slightly raised. She remained in this condition for a few moments,
the tongue rolling about in the mouth and slightly protruding. Then
this was followed by a decided gaze with the eyes set looking into
space, and presently she looked about following Dr. Hodgson with a
wild stare ; said "Oh ! dear me," and fixed a wild fierce gaze on me.
I at once left the room for fear of frightening her with my mask as
she came out.
As I read over the sitting carefully I found several places in which
I had wholly misunderstood the connection and drift of it. In some
places I had supposed that it was " Charles " that was talking with
me, but I find that it must have been " Margaret." But her death
somewhere between or about my first and second year makes the whole
thing ludicrous. Nevertheless the allusion to mother, Annie and
Charles, in the same breath, is interesting as a coincidence. But then
there is no reason for " mother " alluding to her gloves. Then when
312 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
the person communicating answered my question whether " he passed
out before you?" with a "yes," this would be wrong if it referred to
" Charles," but would have been right if the communicator were
" mother," as I thought it was at the sitting. " Margaret " (?) and
my twin sister died somewhere about 1856 or 1858, brother Charles
and sister Annie about 1865, and mother in 1869. This right relation
came out later, as the report shows.
I noticed during the sitting the curious distinctness and evidence
of the change from one personality to another. This is almost inde
scribable, but it was marked in the tone of language, except at the
close, where the change from G. P. to Rector was marked by a mus
cular convulsion in Mrs. P.'s arm.—J. H. H.]
[Later study shows upon how much misunderstanding some
features of this note are based. (March 10th, 1900.)—J. H. H.] [Cf.
Note 18, p. 361 and pp. 21-16.]
Sitting II.—December 24<A, 1898.
Introduction.
The entrance into the trance was marked by much the same
symptoms as the day before. But this time it was the left hand that
showed the twitching, and not the right, until the trance came on.
There was some snoring also this time, as there was not before. After
her head had fallen upon the pillows, and was arranged by Dr.
Hodgson so that she could breathe easily, soon there appeared the
twitching of the fingers and muscles which betokened the preparation
for writing, and the arm began to try to move itself into position for
this work, but Dr. Hodgson assisted it into place, at the same time
putting a pencil between the fingers, when the writing began.—J. H. H.
Btcord of Sitting, December 24th, 1898.
[Rector writes.]
[Cross in air.]
Rector : (R. H. : Good morning.)
Good morrow, friends of earth. We greet thee again, and thou art wel
come here. . . welcome. We bring Prudens and more light will ho
given. All is well. Fear not. Thy friend is [in] good hands, and all will
be as we would have it. We bring him now. Good morrow, friends, all is
well and will be . . . Prudens.
(R. H. : Good day.)
I will take this work and go on with all that is good, and unless it be I
go at once. P
xLI.] Appendix I. 313
[Difficulty in deciphering, hence the repetitions.]
on with it . . and . . all that is good . . and go on
with all that is good. And unless it be we go.
We ask thee to follow . . we ask thee to follow us carefully and
hear what we have to say. . . What
[Excitement, followed by calm.]
Peace +
Yes. I will. [To invisible.]i
James, James Speak. James.
(R. H. to S. : Say something.)
. (S. : Yes.)
James, speak to me.
(S. : I am glad to see you.)
James, James. Speak to me. James. James. [Cf. pp. 324, 28.]
(R. H. to S. : Go on, say something.)
(S. : Good morning. Good morning. Tell all you wish.)
James, speak to me.
(R. H. to S. : Tell him to unburden his mind and remarks like that.)
I am not ill. Oh, oh, I want you so much.
I want you. I want everything, James. I want everything. I want
everything. I want to see you. (S. : Yes, James is here.)
I want to see you. I want to tell you everything. I want you to hear
me. I am not very near just now . . just now, but I am coming, coming.
I see you. I see your spirit in the body. They tell me I will soon be all
right and able to help you. Oh, I did not quite know how it would be here.
[Pause.]
Give me my hat and let me go. [See p. 307 and Note 6, p. 353.]
I will not leave you till I tell you all I wish.
Where is Willie [?] (R. H. : Is that Willie ?)
(S. : Is that Willie?) Where is Willie ?
1 heard you, James, and I am glad. I heard you say something. What
was it 1
(S. : Did you ask for Willie ?)
Yes, I did. Is he all right, James, is he, is he ?
£S. : He is all right.)
Is he coming soon. Yes, I know it.
Where are ... do not work too hard . . . work I say, work I
say, I say work. [Father was always giving me this advice. Cf. p. 430.
(January 5th, 1900.)—J. H. H.]
I want my head clear. I feel chocked—I chocked. I am chocking.
[Interpreted as shocking.] I am choking.
I am going. Will come back soon.
Is James well ! (S. : Yes. James is well, and is here.)
Yes, I know it. I will ask you if you remember brother Charles.
(R. H. : Is that brother Charles ?)
i The expression "To spirit," or "To invisible," indicates that the passage to
which it is attached was apparently addressed to some " spirit." At such points the
hand of Mrs. Piper usually stretched itself out into space as if receiving or deliver
ing a communication to some invisible presence.—J. H. H.
314 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Fh.D.
I say yes. I do not want to be put out, because I can help the rest to
come. Don't send ine away. Don't. I want to tell you about father. He
sends back word that he is all right. Will you . . . Back [re-written,
as it was not deciphered above] and glad of it.
Can hear perfectly now. Do you know what I mean and what I [am]
trying to tell you i
(S. : Yes, yes. I know perfectly.)
He says it is no use trying to think anything is not for . . for the
best, because it is, everything. And we are all here together.
(R. H. to S. : Say something.)
(S. : Yes. I'm glad to hear it. Tell all. Tell all.)
I will. Don't worry, and you shall hear from every one of us, and
after we find you we will all help you, and bring better and clearer
thought to you.
I am . . listen friend. Have patience with me. + [Imperatot]
is here, and we will keep them quite calm.
The trouble you had with your head a short time ago will not return.
Do you remember it ?
(S. : No, I do not distinctly remember it.)
Tired
(S. : Oh yes, I remember that.)
out.
[This phrase " tired out " was quite natural to father, and was probably
used by myself in earlier life. But I should have said " worn out," and there
were frequent occasions during the last two years when I uttered it. It is
possible that I have sometimes used his phrase, but I remember frequently
using " worn out " to my wife. However, I have no reason to interpret
it as referring to this fact. The main point is to remark that the phrase was
one of father's. Assuming that he was really the alleged communicator it
could as well allude to my condition when I last visited him in [January or
February, 1895] 1894, I believe. I was very tired then, and took down a
few days after I left him with a long and severe illness. Its relevancy to
this visit and the exhausted condition in which I was is perhaps indicated
by the allusion to ''lectures" later. I had lectured in Indianapolis on
Psychical Research and visited him on this trip. He was much interested
in what I told him about it, and showed a more receptive mind regarding it,
though of an extremely orthodox belief, than I expected to find in him.
His later allusion also to his belief that we might get some knowledge of
another life fits in with this notion.
I do not say that the phrase " tired out " has any such certain meaning
as is implied in this account. It is simply consistent with it, and is one of
those little touches of personal waisemblancc of which this sitting is full.—
J. H.H.]
(S. : Out is that word ! tired out 'i) (R. H. : Yes, I think so.)
We do not intend it shall haven [?] happen again, and we know.
What is it? E * * [undec.] Elsie El . . is . . Elsie. (S. :
I don't know that name.) Eliza . . Eliza . . (S. : Are you calling
Eliza?) Yes. (S. : Yes, I understand.)
I am. James.
Appendix I. 315
[This allusion to " Eliza " is very interesting. It intimates clearly what
I was curious to know, and regards events that have happened since I
arranged for the sittings.—J. H. H.] [My uncle had died three weeks
previous to the sittings. Eliza is the name of his wife (April 24th, 1901).
—J. H. H.]
(S. : Yes, what do you wish to say to her 1)
Give my love. (S. : Yes, I will.) And tell her not to get discouraged.
(R. H. : Last word, Rector, please ?) I think he says discouraged. (R. H. :
Deranged?) [Dissent.] ("Discouraged.") [Assent.] She will be better
soon. U D.i
(S. : Yes. I understand.)
I often see her despairing. . . despairing. [See Note 20, p. 363.] Where
is she now, James ? I will go there soon.
(S. : She is at home. Do you know why she grieves ?)
[Hand points towards invisible.]
(S. : Do you know why Eliza grieves ?)
Yes, because I left her. But I really did not leave her.
I wish I could you all I would like . . . tell you . . . (" tell
you all.") I would . . . you would not think I had left entirely. I
feel much better now. She thought she saw me in her sleep. [See Note 20,
p. 363.] I was there. Father, father, father . . . going.
[Pause. Cross in air.] . . . going . . . going ... be
back soon.
(R. H. to S. : They cannot stay long at a time, but must get away from
the machine to recover and then return. Verstehen ?) (S. : Yeh.)
[Pause.]
Oh, if you only knew how glad I am to see you, you would be glad,
because it will be a help to me to go on in my life and keep her from feeling
any pain.
(S. : Yes, tell all you can.)
Will you comfort her '! She ought not to be lonely. [See Note 20,
p. 363.]
1 am trusting [thinking ?] to Him to help me to speak plainly.
(S. : Yes, I will comfort her.)
I am glad, so glad. Are you still here ? I will look and see. I have not
been here very long [true.—J. H. H.] and yet . . . [much difficulty in
deciphering next sentence, and hence the repetitions. ]
I would not return for all I ever owned, music, flowers, walks, drives,
pleasures . . . pleasures of all kinds, but . . . ever owned, he
says, music, or walks, drives . . . walks, drives . . . walks . . .
walks, drives, or . . . kinds [?], books and everything. I do remember all
here so well. What can I do to help you all to know I live still ? [See
Note 20, p. 363.]
(S. : Tell me all you can of your life here on earth. )
i The symbol "U. D." has been adopted by the trance personalities for the word
"understand." Hence it is put down in the record just as used by them. In a few
cases, until advised otherwise by Dr. Hodgson, I myself used the symbol in speaking
to the communicator.—J. H. H.
316 [PAKT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Oh I should have so much to do. Where there is light I will always be.
Mother, mother, mother, mother, mother [?]... going . . . going
. . . going. [A close re-examination of the original automatic writing
indicates that the first of these words looks like "mother." The others
look like " brother." May 20th, 1900.—R. H. and J. H. H.]
[Pause and listening.]
Do you miss me ?
(S. : Yes ; very much.)
Will you let me return again and help to free my mind ? Do you know
uncle Charles. [See Note p. 422.] (S. : What uncle Charles !) He
is here. (S. : I don't know any uncle Charles.) And * * [undec.]
No, I am thinking ... let me see.
I think is not a real uncle ; you must remember what I mean.
[This evident consciousness of confusion after I had asked " What Uncle
Charles ? " is very interesting. I was much puzzled by it, as I knew of no
uncle by that name. The "No" after my denial of this knowledge is
suggestive as partly indicating my correctness and the consciousness of the
confusion immediately alluded to by the "communicator." But this is
virtually cleared up by the phrase just afterwards, " not a real uncle," which
I did [not] notice or think of until the next sentence was written. With
the resemblance of the word " Charles " (slight resemblance only, and
noticeable only to those familiar with these sittings) to this uncle's name,
and the fact that he was not a real uncle, the incident has a perfectly definite
meaning. —J. H. H.]
He used to be so nervous. [Correct, but with qualifications and differ
ences of opinion.—J. H. H.]
(S. : Yes, I remember. I think I know what uncle you mean.)
Yes. You see I must think of them all or you would not [knnot] know
who I was ... It was me . . . [The " me " is natural for father.—
J. H. H.] (S. : That is right.)
Do you remember father ? (S. : Yes, well.) Well, speak to him.
(S. : Yes, father, I'm glad to see you since I saw you last. How
are you ?)
All right as right can ever be. I wish you would tell the girls . . tell
. . I am with them in sorrow or pleas—(R. H. : " Sorrow or pleasure ? ")
or joy, it matters not. What is their loss is our gain. [Sounds like hiin.
—J. H. H.] I hear you faintly.
(R. H. to S. : Better tell him to free his mind.)
(S. : Free your mind, father.)
I will, indeed, but have you seen the children yet ?
(S. : I have not seen them for two years.)
They are wonderfully good, I think.
[Father always thought well of his children, and very frequently spoke
of them in this way to me, whom he took more into confidence than the
others, only he never used the word "wonderful" or "wonderfully" in
thus describing them so far as my memory goes.—J. H. H.]
I know, James, that my thoughts are muddled, but if you can only hear
what I am saying you will not mind it.
Do you know where George is ?
XLI.] 317
Appendix I.
(S. : Yes. I know where he is).
Are you troubled about him . . . he is all right and will bo, James.
[Cf. pp. 402, 492.]
[The meaning of this is perfectly clear. I used to complain to father very
much about my brother's neglect of business affairs put into his charge.
We corresponded and conversed about it a great deal the last five or six years
of his life. Father admitted the justice of the complaint, but always
defended my brother and effected a reconciliation between us in regard to
the continuation of certain business relations.—.T. H. H.]
(S. : Yes. All right.)
Worry not.
(S. : No, I will not worry.)
But you do.
(S. : Yes. I have worried some, but I will not any more. )
Thank God. James, if you will only stick to this, you . . stick
. he [says ?] stick to the promise not to worry, you will in time be con
tented and happy while still . . con . . contented . . can you
not . . while still in the body. ["stick" was father's word for this
idea, and he often used it. ["In the body" was not a phrase he would
use. That lingo was wholly unfamiliar to him. He often reproved
nie for worrying, and I would try to make him believe that I did not worry
about things, and he would as often reply in these very words, " But you
do."-J.H. H.]
(S. : Yes. Thank you, father, all right.)
Can you not give ine something belonging to him ?
[S. is getting accordion out of parcel, while hand writes :]
He wants it so much, he used [to] play for you.
(S. : Yes, here it is.) [Accordion given.]
[This accordion was one that he had gotten when quite a young man, and
he used often to play on it for us children at home. It was a well worn
instrument as far back as I can remember. He also played on it during his
lonely hours the last few years of his life. It is interesting that this remark
that he had played on it for us was written before I had actually taken it out
of the parcel, but it should be remembered that I had produced the accordion
at the previous sitting (p. 307).—J. H. H.]
James, my son, I was too weak to speak to you before, but I know all
now, and see you just as you looked before I came here. I have not been
here very long, have 1 1
(S. : No, you have not, only a short time.)
Don't you think I will always be your father . . .
(S. : Yes.) because I will. I will, we were very happy together,
and you know it.
(S. : Yes, I know it.) [This is correct.—J. H. H.]
What can I do to help Eliza feel that I am not dead ?
(S. : Tell us who are with you, and that will help Eliza.)
Yes, all, you shall know each one. in her. . .
You are not Robertson [?] are you . . . (R. H. : Is that Robertson ? >
You are not George, are you? (S. : No, I am not George.) (R. H. : I
am not . . .)
318 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
No, James. I know you very well, but this other one . . . did you
know the boys ... do you know me ? [Cf. pp. 92, 193.]
(R. H. : I did not know you, but I am a friend of James, and I am helping
him to get clear communications from you, and he wishes that you would
unburden yourself quite fully and freely to him ; he will be here again, and
later on I shall be pleased to take messages from you to him when I am
alone here, and our friends who are helping you over there think it desir
able. Your . . . James cannot see you. Your thoughts are expressed
in writing by this human organism which Rector or other messenger of
Imperator uses, and therefore I shall be glad if you will free your mind and
then later think over some striking incidents with your son so that he may
feel strongly your presence by your recalling old memories.)
I thank you for helping me. I see better now, and I . . .
(S. to R. H. : That's the intellectual see now . . . instead of the
sensuous see.) (R. H. to S. : Yes, yes.)
Will help him in every possible way to know all that we both knew.
I could not hear very well before, but I understand it better now.
Do you recall your lectures, and, if so, to whom to do [to whom do you]
recite them now ? I often hear them in my own mind. [This word
"recite" is very singular. It is like him.—J. H. H.] Give me some
[thing] for the purpose of helping me remain here longer.
(S. : Yes, here it is.) [Giving accordion.]
My toy. I remember it so well. I left all so suddenly, yet I knew I
vas coming.
(S. : Yes, yes. I think so too.)
Do you remember what my feeling was about this life ?
(S. : Yes, I do.)
Well, I was not so far wrong after . after all.
[Mrs. P. began to write over edge of paper, after the first after, and I
moved her hand to the other side of the sheet. Instead of writing at once
she suddenly put it on the accordion, a foot away, as if to orientate herself.
—J. H. H.]
I felt sure that there would be somo knowledge of this life, but you were
doubtful, remember.
(S. : Yes, Yes. I remember.)
You had your own ideas (S. : That is characteristic) [in low murmur],
which were only yours, James.
(S. : Yes. I know.)
Well it is not a fault, and I wish some of the rest had as strong . . .
as good . . .
[This whole passage in reference to my scepticism about a future life is
perfectly correct. My scepticism and abandonment of orthodoxy had hurt
my father very much. It was long before he could get over it, especially as
he had wished me to enter the ministry, though using no compulsion and no
urgent persuasion upon me. I merely knew his intonse desire. He knew
my difficulties in this matter and on the question of immortality, on which he
never wavered. Several words and phrases here are perfectly characteristic
of him. " Well, I was not so far wrong," is word for word an expression of
his which he always used, half triumphantly when he found his own
Appendix I. 319
convictions turning out true after being controverted, and half con
ceding a right to the opposite opinion before it was refuted and his own
verified.
In the next sentence, as soon as I saw the word " but " written, I was
curious to see if he would say I was sceptical, the word "sceptical" being
the one that came to iny mind. I was much interested when, instead, the
word " doubtful " came, as this term was more natural to him, and the one
he always used in that connection. Similarly in the reference to my own
"ideas." He often spoke to me in a half-complaining way, and more
frequently to other members of the family and relatives that it was no use to
interfere with me ; that I was resolved to have my "own ideas." He
recognised in me what goes sometimes by the name of stubbornness and
sometimes the more respectable name of firmness, and he would always
yield as soon as he saw that argument did not avail, but with some allusion
to my "own ideas," never using the word opinions, which I should at least
most frequently use.
" Well, it is not a fault " is also like him, and was often used in extenuation
of some trait in others of which complaint was made and which had its two
sides.—J. H. H] [See Note 6, p. 352.]
In a short time they tell me I will be able to recall everything . .
[not read at once] recall everything I ever did . . . You could be
my . . knew does not ... I will have to go for [a]
moment. Wait for me.
. (S. : Yes, I will.) [Pause.]
Friend, there is a little girl here who is trying to find her mother and we
are doing all we can to comfort her.
(S. to R. H. : The girl or the mother ?) (R. H. to S. : The girl, I
think.)
She is bright enough . . enough . . bright enough.
Who is Ruth 1
(S. : I do not know Ruth.)
Not to thee, friend, but to thee [i.e., it refers to R. H.]
[This refusal to recognise me and to connect the child Ruth with me was
very interesting. On any theory of thought-transference there ought to
have been confusion such as the name produced in me ; for I could not
assign the name any meaning, except that I could recall no Ruth in my
acquaintance. If this feeling could determine the refusal to locate the
child within the group of my memories, then telepathy could account for
turning me off in this way. But then, if the incident has any relevancy to
Dr. Hodgson, this hypothesis of thought-transference from my mind in
connection with a desire on the part of the medium to " fish" must go by
the board.—J. H. H.]
(R. H. : Is it a friend or relative of mine, do you think ?) We do.
(R. H. : Rector, there is Mrs. Thaw's little . . . ) [Hand dis
sents.]
(R. H. : Not that.) No, not she.
(R. H. : It cannot be . . . Oh, wait one moment, kindly. Is Ruth
the name of the child 1 Is it Margaret Ruth 1) It is.
(R. H. : It surely is not the youngest child of my sister Ellen, is it ?)
320 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
We think it is.
(R. H. : This is very important. My . . . )
We will surely ascertain the truth and give answer at our next meeting,
after talking with her. (R. H. : Yes.)
If there be light enough we will give thee more knowledge of her . .
be good.
She is trying to find her mother, who is still in the body.
[See next sitting, p. 330.—R. H.]
We see thy father returning to thee. Friend, he was, he says, the last
to come here. [Correct (December 31st, 1899).—J. H. H.]
(S. : That is right.)
And he will recall every fact he ever knew. He says he thought even
more, if possible, of you than all the lest. Do you think so ? he asks.
(S. : Yes, I do think so.)
It is my feeling, James, and why not express it ?
(S. : That is right, father.) (S. to R. H. : That's exactly like him,
because . . .)
Do you recall the fact of my being frank ?
[Father was always very reserved about expressing his feelings to us,
and in his correspondence with me he would often half apologise in this
way for his frankness. "It is my feeling, and why not express it?"
is the very phrase of his letters to me, which I could prove had I
kept any of my correspondence with him, except a few of his last letters.
I have been in the habit of destroying all my letters for lack of space
to keep them, inasmuch as my correspondence has been large. But the
phrase and thought is his exactly. It is the same with the allusion to
his being " frank," and the reader should note that the interrogatory form
of the allusion to frankness suggests the working of an independent
mind.^J. H. H.]
(S. : Yes, I do.)
Sincerity of purpose . . . my sincerity.
I recall the struggles you had over your work well, very well. [All true,
and is a long story. —J. H. H.]
Everything in life should be done with sincerity of purpose.
[This expression "sincerity of purpose" was a very frequent one with
him when admonishing me of my dangers, both before and after my diffi
culties with scepticism. It almost broke his heart to see me going in that
direction, as his fear was that I should in consequence of it lead a life of
vice. The only thing that ever reconciled him to my apostasy was the
knowledge that I did not fall in this respect, and that I was terribly in
earnest about my opinions. When discussing them, as we seldom did, because
I knew our great difference in point of view, he never having had the
scientific education that I had, he would insist, when he saw the intellectual
difficulties of his own faith—and he saw them, for he had a remarkably clear
insight—he would insist that the great thing was "sincerity of purpose."
Of course, he is apologising here for his own sincerity of purpose in
admonishing me in these difficulties, virtually indicating that there was
ground for my scepticism, which is here discovered after death. But in life
XLI.] 321
Appendix I.
he always pleaded this "sincerity of purpose " when admonishing us against
our own ways and convictions, as well as indicating that it was the chief
thing for us to cultivate. Hence to meet this here with allusion to my
struggles in life has an extraordinary interest and fitness, on any theory that
can be adopted regarding it.
The expression below also is interesting. He used to caution me against
having so many irons in the tire, using much the same expression as used
here, namely, "so many different ideas."—J. H. H.]
I know well all the difficulties which you encounter. (S. to R. H. :
Encounter's just the word he'd use, the word difficulties too.) [I would have
said "had " or " met."—J. H. H.] But keep on as you have been and you will
master them ere long. So many different ideas . . different ideas . .
are not easily managed. But never mind, do not be troubled . . (S. :
I thought he was going to say what he said before, there) [that is, " worried,"
but the pencil wrote "troubled " instead of "worried," which was in my
mind.—J. H. H.] about it, it will not last for ever, and I am getting
stronger.
(S. : No, I will not trouble any more about it.)
Well, do you really think you underst . . understand . . stronger
. . [not read above] understand ?
And I will come again with more clearness with the help of this [pause]
+ man who wears the cross.
James my son, James my son, speak to me, I am going far away.
(R. H. to S. : Coming to an end. Yes—going—say you'll be pleased to
see him again, and so on.)
(S. : Yes, father, I shall be pleased to see you again. I shall have to go
now.)
I am too far off to think more for you. J. H. H. { R }
[As the sitting was thus coming to a close I was struck with the writing
of my initials.—J. H. H.]
Friend, we ask thee ere we depart, when thou wilt return. We must
restore this light a little before we can speak as we dr . . speak as .
desire.
(R. H. : We . . . to-morrow is Christmas day, and there will be no
use of the light. Will the first day after the Sabbath be too soon ?)
We would in all cases where there are changes of persons . . are
changes . . give tho day before and after the . the day before
and also the Sabbath if possible. If not, we will use the light as best we
can, but with new communicators we prefer it good.
(R. H. : I . . . cannot myself tell. This friend was coming by your
arrangement on the first and second days after the Sabbath, but . . .)
We will have it so. We do not think that thou hast U D us.
(R. H. : No, I fear not.)
Do we U D that there is only the Sabbath between our meeting ?
(R. H. : Yes, only the Sabbath.)
Well it will be for us ; and we will make it good.
(Amen.)
We go now, and may God's blessings rest on thee. +■ {R}
[Cross in air.]
Y
322 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
[Mrs. P.'a sublim.]i
II. H . sh . [Repeated again and again. R. H. thinks she is
trying to repeat his name. Sounds to him like Hishon.] (R. H. : Hodg
son ? Who is it?) * * * Hlslop.
I am he.
Tell him I am his father.
I.
Good bye, sir.
I shouldn't take him away, that way.
Oh. dear.
Do you see the man with the cross shut out everybody
Did you see the light ?
What made the man's hair all fall off ?
(R. H. : What man ?)
That elderly gentleman that was trying to tell me something, but it
wouldn't come.
(R. H. : You couldn't hear it ?)
[Mrs. P., as she was coming out of the trance, began to utter a name.
I recognised this as ' ' Hyslop " twice before Dr. Hodgson, and deliberately
refused to say so with the hope that he would recognise it also. His
failure was quite pardonable, because the first name mentioned two
or three times sounded to me like his own. Besides, he was in a
poorer position to catch it than I. When I told him what it was he
recognised it at once, but his queries addressed to Mrs. P. had turned
her pronunciation more toward his own name, as at first indicated. But as
soon as I indicated what she was trying to say, doing this first by asking him,
" Don't you hear what she is trying to say 1 " and then saying to him "Hyslop "
(short sound of "y"), he saw and assented at once, and Mrs. P. then pro
nounced the name much more distinctly, though strangely enough she now
pronounced it with the " y " sound instead of the short " i " ; that is, "High-
slop " instead of " Hislop," the latter being the correct pronunciation and the
first one given by Mrs. P., though nearly every one adopts the former until
told the proper one. In the neighbourhood in which I was brought up, and
in Scotland, the name is often pronounced "Hayslop," and sometimes
" Highslop." But father never used this last. For the most of his life he
had used ' ' Hayslop, " when speaking to neighbours and others, but elsewhere
and with his sisters it was " Hislop," and most especially during the last ten
years of his life when all of us conspired to fix the pronunciation as
"Hislop," father falling in with this, and so generally that in the community
whither he had gone in another State to spend the last years of his life
(1889-1896) it was always pronounced "Hislop," so far as I know, among
neighbours and intimate acquaintances.
But it must be remembered in all this that I had never taken off my mask,
and that Mrs. Piper had not seen my face since she had seen it some four or
i The Roman numerals I. and II., referring to Mrs. Piper's subliminal con
sciousness (see Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XIII., pp. 397 and 400-1), are used to indicate
what appear to be two stages of this condition, which, however, are not always very
clearly marked. I. represents the stage nearest to her ordinary waking state and II.
the deeper stage.—J. H. H.
XLI.] 323
Appendix I.
six [over six] years ago, and that I had been careful not to say a word to her or
in her hearing while she was normal, except on the occasion of this second
sitting, when I spoke to her in an unnatural and a changed voice after
entering the door. Some three hundred feet from the house, before turning
into the street where she lives, and before even the house could be seen, I
had put on my mask and at once went from the coach to the door. Mrs. P.
was inside, and seeing me on the porch, where I stood for a moment, opened
the door and asked me to come in, saying that she had a very good name
among her neighbours and did not wish them to see me. I said nothing at
first, but when Dr. Hodgson came in I made some remark in as sepulchral
tones as I could command, and said no more until after Mrs. P. entered the
trance.
I should also further add that during the whole time I was present in
both sittings, both in her normal condition and during the trance, I did not
have the slightest physical contact with Mrs. P., except two or three times
long enough in the trance to move the arm into position.—J. H. H.]
Sitting III.—December 26<A, 1898.
Introduction.
Mrs. Piper passed into the trance as usual, and there is nothing to
record in regard to that matter except the unusual promptness with
which she entered it. As my name was announced at the previous
sitting I did not deem it necessary this time to wear my mask, but it
is interesting to record that nearly as little was known about my
presence as if I had worn it. We were met at the door by the servant
and went up to the room where the sittings are held without seeing
Mrs. P. I sat down on the floor in a corner of the room behind the
sofa to untie a package with almost my back toward the door where
Mrs. P. was to enter. She entered and spoke indifferently to Dr.
Hodgson. I looked up to speak, but her face was turned away from
me and I quickly turned back to my work without speaking, and in a
moment I overheard Mrs. P. remark to Dr. Hodgson that she had not
seen me until then. I turned my head to look at her and found that
she was not looking at me at all, but was in position for the trance.
I then moved into my proper place and not the slightest attention was
paid to me, and soon Mrs. P. was in the trance, apparently without the
slightest clue as to who I was, even if she had known me well before.
I left the sitting before she recovered consciousness, so that there was
practically nothing still to identify me though I offered the opportunity
for it by abandoning the mask. I do not say that she could not have
identified me, but only that the conditions of the present (third) sitting
were practically as good for concealment as in the two previous
y 2
324 [PAET
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
instances, though this fact requires neither recognition nor emphasis,
but only to be recorded, because the announcement of my name in the
previous sitting made it unnecessary to practise any further precautions
by wearing a mask.—J. H. H.
Record of Sittmtj, December 26th, 1898.
[Rector writes.]
Rector. (R. H. : Good morning.)
Good morrow, friends of earth. We hail thee once more with pleasure.
+ would ask thee whether or not thou hast U D His direction which He last
gave thee.
(R. H. : I am not sure. Kindly tell me.)
He intends to arrange for thee to rest two whole days, viz., the first before
the Sabbath, also the Sabbath, unless in a case similar to thy friend present.
U D. (Cf. close of previous sitting p. 321.)
(R. H. : Yes ; you mean that the light should always rest on the day
before each Sabbath and also the Sabbath.) [Cross in air.] Unless there
be . . there be . . some worthy friend who is in great sorrow.
[Cross in air.]
(R. H. : Yes. I understand, except in special cases. Yes, I think I
understand clearly.)
Then in such cases He will return to thee or thine.
(R. H. : Yes.) All is well and will ever be. [Cross in air.]
Prudens and Rector will now bring these friends. Peace be with them
and thee. More light from Prudens. All is clear, and I help him to find
the light.
Oh, how thankful I am for this day.
James, James, James, speak my son, to me. I am coming, coining to
you, hear . . hear . . . Who will fill my place 1 [Cf. p. 313.]
Where are you, James ? Where are you ?
(S. : I am here, father, is that you ?)
[Excitement.] Yes, it is I, James, I who is speaking to you. It is I who
is speaking to you.
(S. : Yes, I am glad to see you or hear from you.)
I wanted to ask you before I got too weak if you remember of the story
I used . . I used to tell you of a fire. [I cannot imagine what this
means.—J. H. H.] [Cf. Note 21, p. 364, and Note 48, p. 503 ]
(S. : What story, father ?)
When I was quite young. Does [?] James recall the fire I used to
speak about . . .
Fire he says [in reply to question by R. H. if the word above wasfire.']
It was the whole [?] city was it not ? (S. : Yes, it was in the city.) It
was, did he say ?
[At the time of the sitting the words " the whole city" were interpreted
as "in the city " and hence my acknowledgment as I thought, according to
a contemporary note, of a special fire which impressed me when a boy, but
which obviously had nothing to do with the statements of my father, the
Appendix I. 325
acknowledgment, however, being made to encourage the communicator to
continue. I employed this method very frequently. (April 16th, 1900). —
J. H. H.] [See Note 21, p. 364, and Note 48, p. 503.]
(R. H. to S. : Speak low as I do, it's much more intelligible.)
I am glad to hear something of you. Do you know in a little while I
will be able to recall every thing . . every . . tha I . . .
will not . . . ever knew.
Where are my books, James 1 I want something to think over and I
will keep quite near you. [Accordion given.]
Nearer [?] . . I see clearly now, and oh if I could only tell you all
that is in my mind.
It was not an hallucination, but a reality, but I felt it would be possible
for me to reach you. . . hallucination [The reference of this is to some
thing later, so that my interruption by the following question was out of
place.—,1. H. H.]
(S. : Yes, I think so. Do you remember more about that fire ?)
Oh yes, the tire. Strange I was forgetting to go on. [Not read at
time.] I was nearly forgetting to go on. Yes. I do rem . . . forgeg
. . forgetting to go on with it . . it. The fire did great damage, I
remember, and I used to think 1 never would care to see the like again.
I want you to hear, if possible, what I am saying to you, because I have it
. it quite clearly in my mind.
Were the books destroyed ? (S. : No, they were not destroyed, I have
some of them at my home.) [Cf. pp. 325, 490, 473, 523.]
I wish you had them . I remember [?] all. I am thinking . ,
(R. H. : Slow, Rector, please.)
Didst thou speak, friend 1
(R. H. : I said, "Slow, Rector, please." Get him to speak very slowly
so that your writing may be slower and clearer so that we may follow. Ask
him to be quite calm and think slowly and speak slowly to you, and not get
too excited about his remembrances.)
Well done. He is a very intelligent spirit and will do a great deal for us
when he realises where he is now and what we are requesting him to do.
[What not written between and and ive, but added afterwards when the
sentence was read over without it.] Yes [to correct reading.]
James, are you here still ? If so I want very much to know if you
remember what I promised you . . what I promised you.
(S. : Yes, I hope you will tell me what you promised.)
I told you if it would be possible for me to return to you I would.
(S. : Yes, I remember.)
And convince you that I lived [not read] ; try and convince you that I
lived. I told you more than this, and I will remember it all. I told you
I would come back if possible, and ... let you know that I was not
annihilated. I remember, remember well our talks about this life and its
conditions, and there was a great question of doubt as to the possibility of
communication ; that, if I remember rightly, was the one questiou which
we talked ovor.
Will return soon. Wait for me.
(S. : Yes, I shall wait.)
326 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
[Here is an incident of more than usual interest. It cannot be understood
without a lengthy narrative. Two chronologically distinct, but connected,
events are here alluded to. One of them, our talk on the future life, etc.,
took place a year before his death, and the other, his possible intention to
return to me (p. 356), occurred on his death-bed. I have already remarked
in my comments on the second sitting that there seemed to be an allusion to
a conversation which I had had with him on the subject of psychical research
and its importance, just after my visit to Indianapolis, already referred to.
There is an evideut reference to this again here in the communicator's
language. This is quite striking to me from the statement a little earlier
about its "not being an hallucination, but a reality." He was not familiar
with the term hallucination, though he knew its import very well. But
in our talk about the subject of evidence for the hereafter I was careful to
lay much stress upon the fact of hallucination and the difficulties that it
produced for any claim to scientific proof. He saw it, but his faith
was too strong to be moved by it, and I can see the half-triumphant tone of
his present manner, as it always was in like situations verifying his own
belief or forecast of any event, though not in any boasting or victorious
spirit, but only the strong satisfaction that he felt, as perhaps all of us
would, when we found a faith become an indubitable fact.
With this conversation in view the allusion to the promise made me is
one of much interest. When I was sent word by my aunt (Eliza, the one
alluded to in the first sitting) that father had suddenly come to his old home
very ill, I knew that his end was near. I had been expecting such a crisis
for months. I immediately sat down and wrote him an affectionate letter.
I could not conceal from him my belief that his illness meant death. I
ended my letter with the following sentence :—" I want you to come to
me after it is all over." I had no belief in immortality at the time, though
I did not disbelieve it. It has usually seemed possible to me, but the
argument seemed to ine overwhelmingly strong for materialism. Neverthe
less I knew that there was no way either to prove immortality, or to show
more clearly that it could not be proved, than the method of psychical
research ; and though I had never had, and believe I never would have, an
apparition, I was not above Darwin's playing his bassoon to his plants, and
ventured on this suggestion to father as he stood on the brink of the grave,
so that if it succeeded I could personally record such a coincidence, and if it
did not, record that fact. I had no apparition of him, and in fact never
thought of my request half a dozen times afterward. But it is not a little
interesting to find here [see below] the statement that he has been calling
for me ever since his death. He replied to my letter on his deathbed, and
I have it still, the last letter he ever wrote me. I do not remember whether
he made in it the promise he here says he made to me. My impression is
that he did not, because 1 remember keeping the letter mainly for the reason
that it was his last. I shall see, however, what it says when I get access to
it in New York.
It is evident, however, in the conception of the communicator that he
has viewed the promise from the standpoint of communication, not
apparition, and that his mind in thinking of the promise reverts to the
conversation two years before, or thereabouts, when the whole question
XLI.] 327
Appendix I.
discussed was about the possibility of communication between discarnate
and incarnate minds. I explained to him what telepathy meant and what
was possible if it was true. He saw it, and as at that time I could not accept
more than telepathy and was cautious and sceptical about that, I expressed
very grave doubts about communication with the dead. Hence there could
not be a more pertinent statement, on the part of one who claims to be my
father, than the one here made : " There was a great question of doubt as
to the possibility of communication, that, if I remember rightly, was the
great question which we talked over."—J. H. H.] [See also Note 9, p. 356.]
I am Prudens, and I give light. I am thy friend and thou wilt call for
me when thou dost need help. P. (R. H. : Yes, thank you.)
Mr. H. returns.
(S. : That H is good.)
I feel better now, James. I felt very much confused when I first came
here. I could not seem to make out why I could not make you hear me at
first. I have been calling for you ever since I left my body. 1 can hear
better and my ideas are clearer than ever before. I would like to hear you
speak.
(S. : Yes, father, free your mind. I shall listen and understand.)
I will leave nothing undone, but will reach you clearly and talk as we
used, when I could speak independently of thought. I have not yet found out
why it is that I have difficulty in speech. [I misunderstood this, and hence
the following impertinent question.—J. H. H.]
(S. : Do you know what the trouble was when you passed out ?)
No, I did not realise that we had any trouble, James, ever.
(S. to R. H. : Misunderstood my statement.)
I thought we were always most congenial to each other.
(S. to R. H. : Must correct that misunderstanding.)
I do not remember any trouble, tell me what was it about you . . .
do not mean with me, do you . . .
(S. : Father, you misunderstand me. I mean with the sickness.)
[Excitement.]
Oh, yes. I hear. I hear you. Yes. I know now. Yes, my stomach.
(S. : Yes. Was there anything else the matter ?)
Yes. Stomach, liver. (R. H. : Liver ?)
He says and head.
(S. : Very well. Tell all about it.)
He has taken off this condition, but tells me he could not see clearly.
What was meant by his eyes ? His stomach and . . .
Speak plainly. . . [To invisible.] I do not get it.
Sounds like Bone [?] (R. H. : Can't read that.)
(S. : Is that bom ?) Bone [?] Bone ['!] he . . he is telling me. Wait.
He places his hand over his . . . heart beat [?]
(S. : Heart?)
Yes, let me reach thee [not read] reach thee, friend.
[Hand moves over R. H.'s head.]
Think I am finding it hard to breathe ... my heart, James . . .
my heart, James . . . difficult to breathe.
Do you not remember how I used to breathe ?
328 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(S. : Yes, father, you are on the right line now.)
Yes, I think it was my heart which troubled me most. . I . . and
my lung . .
stomach and heart. I felt a * * [undec.] and tightness of my
chest . . . and my heart failed me. He says distressed in the region
of the heart, but at last I went to sleep. Was it not congestion, James ?
(S. : Not that I know of.) [I had the catarrh in mind in this answer.
I should have had the death scene in view. (November 3rd, 1899.)—
J. H. H.]
I will try and remember all about it, he says, yet I remember heart and
head well.
[The confusion in the communicator's mind which my question "Do
you know what the trouble was when you passed out?" created was a
surprise to me. When he spoke of his ignorance about the cause of his
difficulty of speech, I thought that he was alluding to the difficulties from
which he had suffered for three years before his death, and especially on his
death-bed. But on reading the passage now I see that it refers to the diffi
culty of communicating his thoughts during the sitting. But thinking that
he was referring to his sickness I asked him what the "trouble" was with
which he died, using here the spiritistic lingo, as I have done all along
purposely, and it was a surprise to see the reply, which was natural enough
with the context, and, what is quite as striking, characteristic of many of
his letters to me whenever any difference of opinion arose. The word
'. trouble " was generally used by him to express perplexities and annoyances
with others growing out of personal relations with them, and was not used
by him to express sickness, but only the accidents of sickness when men
tioned, so that his diversion here is very natural.
At the time of the sitting I shook my head and thought that the
communicator was wrong when, in what follows the confusion awakened by
my question, the communicator mentioned his stomach and, after ui'ich
struggling, his heart, lungs and breathing. The last seemed like it, but
the first three did not. I had in mind his throat trouble, catarrh as he
called it, which in reality was probably cancer of the larynx. Hence I
wanted to see if he would mention what he had thought his sickness was,
and what he had so often called it. Hence my demurral to its correctness
when I saw the allusion to his stomach, heart and lungs, and the "conges
tion." But when I came to read the notes over after the sitting it seemed
clear that the communicator had interpreted my phrase " when you passed
out " as referring to the final crisis, and the whole narrative took on another
meaning. I saw that it described exactly the chief incidents that occurred
during the last half hour especially, and less strikingly the last hour, of
his life. These must be described as fully as possible.
For about two months before his death my father had suffered from loss
of appetite, a thing that had never been characteristic of him, and during
these two months he had little satisfaction from eating. During the week
in which I helped to nurse him, the difficulty from swallowing on the one
hand and the weakening of digestion on the other led to the necessity for
artificial feeding, but during the last twenty-four hours of his illness, even
this process accomplished nothing. On my inquiry also there was found to
xLi.] Appendix I. 82S)
be very little hunger, until on the morning of his death. About seven in
this morning he complained of hunger, and on bringing the doctor we were
able, about eight or half-past eight, to raise him up in bed to give him some
milk. But he could drink very little of it, aud with this hunger, which is
the frequent messenger of death, he threw himself back upon the pillow with
the remark: ''It is too late." His pulse still showed a reasonably good
condition. He had himself, all through his illness, watched his pulse, and
even during the spasms of the larynx, when we thought he would perish,
there seemed to be no diminution of the heart action such as would be
expected as death approached. This kept up well until about half an hour
before death, which occurred about ten o'clock in the morning. I noticed a
gradual weakening of the pulse and the speech until he could not move his
hand or any part of his body. In the early stages of this oncoming weakness
when I undertook to feel the pulse, he several times rather petulantly shook
his arm as if to prevent my effort, a thing he had never done before,
but rather exhibited, or even manifested on his own part, a desire to
feel his pulse or to have it felt. But in this weakening condition he
also reached out his hand for that of his wife, and, being utterly unable
to speak, could only press it in token of farewell. Soon the breathing
became shorter and shorter, and there seemed to be the most tremendous
and agonising efforts to take a full breath. The doctor had told me
that this shortening of the breath during the spasms was due to con
gestion, caused by the attack of the spasm, and he also intimated that it
might at any time terminate his life. Finally the pulse became too weak to
be noticed, the breathing too short to supply air, and the eyes assumed the
fixed gaze of death, and one last effort was made to obtain a breath, the
eyes closed, and I remarked, " He's gone." Then the lower jaw fell, and the
crisis was passed. He had complained during the last period of the illness,
especially during some of the last hours, of great pain in the head, but this
was not limited to the crisis which I have just described. The whole
narrative which this explains, and which claims to be from my father,
pursues this description quite closely as any one can see.
The incident about the trouble with the eyes I cannot confirm, but may
be able to do so from my mother, if it be true. It is also my impression
that the doctor had remarked by the bedside that there was congestion in
the lungs when any extreme difficulty occurred with the breathing. The
conformity of the narrative, however, to the facts known to me is quite
evident and remarkable.—J. H. H.] [Cf. Note 10, p. 350].
[The following letter was received to-day and confirms the statement
which I have made above, that I thought congestion in the lungs had been
mentioned to father or within his hearing.
Xenia, Ohio.
Mv Dear Mr. Hvsi.op, —Father has been ill with La Grippe since
Sunday, and though able to be down stairs now, still feels weak. At his
request I write to say that you are right in thinking that he had spoken to
your father himself concerning the congestion of the lungs—as well as to
you. He sends his kindest regards and with me wishes you a Happy
and Prosperous New Year—Yours sincerely,
Thurs. noon. Wii.i. Dice.
330 [part
J. H. Hyslap, Ph.D.
It will be remarked that the above letter has no date. But the
envelope is marked very dearly " Xenia, Ohio, Dec. 29, 5 p.m., '98." This
was Thursday as the calendar shows. (See Note 8, p. 356, and Note 10,
p. 357.) (December 31st, 1898).—J. H. H.]
(S. : Do you remember what medicine I got in New York ?)
(S. : Do you remember what medicine I got in New York for you i)
Yes, I do faintly.
Never mind . . . tell me about it later, when you feel clear. [From
Rector to communicator.] Give him something . . him something.
[From Rector to sitters ]
[Accordion given.]
James, it was my heart, and I remember it well, and my eyes troubled
me also. Do you remember this ?
(S. : No, I do not remember this.) [One of these incidents, that about
the eyes, I did not know, and the other 1 was not thinking of. (November
3rd, 1899.) -J. H. H.]
Do you not remember what the swelling meant ? [Not read at first.]
He says swelling.
[The external surface of the throat was swollen, and it is interesting to
note this question because it betrays just that kind of conception which 1
would expect him to entertain while thinking that his disease was catarrh ;
for it appears to betray consciousness of a contradiction between what he
knew of catarrh in myself and what he thought this was.—J. H. H.]
I remember taking hold . . hold of my own hands and holding them
together over my chest. [I do not remember this.—J. H. H.] [See Note 22,
p. 364.] But strange I cannot think of the word I want. I know it so
well too.
(S. : Do I know it also ?) [Hand assents.]
Oh yes, very well.
(S. : Did I ever have the same sickness ?) [I was thinking of catarrh in
this question. (November 3rd, 1899.)—J. H. H.] Yes, long ago. [Correct.
—J. H. H.]
(S. : Yes, that is right. What did I do for it ?)
This is what I cannot think, and it troubles ine a little, James, because I
know it so well.
(R. H. : Rector, would it uot be better for him to leave for a moment !)
Yes, he is going. + called him.
[To R. H.] No, the little girl is not thy sister's child, friend. [See
previous sitting, p. .—R. H.] We will give thee more about her later, if
we need . . . need for us to do so . . need.
Friend, they have sent thy brother here for a few moments to wait thy
father's return.
(S. : Yes. Which brother is it ?)
It is I. I have been here so long. Is Scarlet fever a bad thing to have in
the body i
[This is in reality the correct answer to my question in the earlier sitting.
(See p. 309.) My brother died of scarlet fever. He was taken with both
scarlet fever and measles at the same time according to the diagnosis of the
physician, and my father and mother were told during the progress of the
XLI.] 331
Appendix I.
illness that one of them would prevail over the other. This was very
noticeable before his death, the scarlet fever overcoming the measles and
driving the rash from measles down and out through the extremities, as it
were. The sister who took sick on the day of my brother's funeral and died
in twelve days had only the scarlet fever.—J. H. H .]
(S. : Yes, it is. Tell more about it.)
I had it, and I woke in . When I waked up I found I really had
been dreaming . found (S. : Yes, I understand.) Are you happy . .
happy while you are going on dreaming ?
(R. H. [S.] : Yes. Who passed out soon after you ?)
Mother [? brother] ... is here also.
(S. : Mother, is that you ?) Yes.
Yes, we are all here. Do you know who Sarah is ? Anne [Anna ?]
[I did not know at the time that Sarah was the name of my twin
sister who died when in her fourth month. (November 3rd, 1899.)—J. H. H.]
[See Note 5, p. 349.]
(S. : Yes. I know who Annie is.) She wants to see you. (S. : Well,
I hope we can some day.) She says you dream while she lives, and she
sends her love to you . . love. Where is brother James ?
(S. : This is brother James here. I am brother James.)
How you have changed since I came here. [Compare Proceedings, Vol.
XIII., p. 324. -J. H. H.]
Do you remember anything about my hair ? There is something I wish
yoa to know. Do you, if you are my dear brother, recall anything about
my hair ?
(S. : I am not quite certain.)
They took a piece of it away. Did you know this ?
(S. : I think you are right.)
I know I am. I know it well, James.
And I remember a little picture of me taken when I was very young.
[Correct.—J. H. H.] Who has it now ?
(S. : Who has it now ?) (R. H. to S. : That's what she's asking yon.)
I cannot find it, and I have thought about it so much.
(S. : I think I remember now. Do you remember Aunt Nannie ?) [Excite
ment in hand.]
Well, I think [?] I do very well. I was named for her. [Not correct
(April 18th 1900.)—J. H. H.]
(R. H. : Rector, ask her to be calm.) [Cross in air.]
Yes. I think I do very well. I was really named for her.
(S. : Yes?) Yes, I say. Has she it? (S. : Yes, she has it.)
Give her my love and tell sister Annie tells her . . . Anna not
Anna but Annie. And I am your sister. [See Notes 3, P.S., p. 348, and
11, p. 368.]
(S. : Yes, I remember you well.)
Do you not have anything to say to me ? I came here just after Charles
. . Charles. [Correct.—J. H. H.]
(S. : Yes, that is right. I am glad to hear from you.)
I tried years ago to reach you. + [This indicates the presence of
Imperator.] I tried years ago through father. Did you know this 1 (S. :
332 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
No, I did not know this.) I did. And if Auntie is still in the body she will
remember this. Here comes father. [See Note 11, p. 358.]
Yes. James. I do remember something about your getting some
quien[?] (S. : Medicine ?) (R. H. : Quinine ?) [Dissent.] [See Note 12,
1i. 358.]
It begins with D. (S. : Not quite. Can you spell it ?) Oh, I know it
so well, yet I cannot say it when I wish to.
(S. : Father, do not worry about it now. It will come again.) Yes, and
I will tell it this friend if not to you.
I told him this. R. [i.e.. Rector told the communicator.]
(R. H. : Good.)
I am anxious for you to know all about me, and if there is anything that
the children or I can do for you to know that we are all together again I will
really keep my promise to you.
(S. : Yes, father, I am glad of that. I heard many good words from
Annie, and they pleased me very much.) Yes, and she has been here longer
than I have, James . . She has been here longer than I have 1 James,
and is clearer in her thoughts when she is trying to speak, but do not feel
troubled about it. I will in time be able to tell you all. (S. : Yes, father,
I think you will. Don't worry but keep calm.) I want you to know I am
at this moment trying to think of anything but sickness. (R. H. "every
thing about sickness.") No anything but . . but. (S. : I see—that's
it.) And now do you remember what I tried to talk over with you besides
. . . I am clearer now . . . coming here, and what we used to say
about your work. I think you were happier in it, were you not, very much,
now out with it, James.
Do you hear her sing [Not read.] (R. H. : No, the words are not clear.
Rector.) Cing. (R. H. : "Coming?") Do you not hear her sing ging
singing ! (R. H. : No.)
Friend, there is something and we will be obliged to ask thee to move.
(S. : I'm to move?) (R. H. : I don't know.) [S. goes over to the other
side of room.] No, return. [S. returns.] [Cf. pp. 429, 467.]
Yes, my head grows lighter and lighter. Do you know the last thing I
recall is your speaking to me. [When the eyelids fell in death, I alone
remarked, " He's gone."—J. H. H.] (S. : Yes. Right.)
And you were the last to do so. (S. : A'ery well. Was any one else at
the bedside 1 )
I remember seeing your face, but I was too [to] weak to answer. Hear
me now. Where is Eliza ? (S. : She is at home.)
I remember her and Robertson [ ? ] well.
(R. H. : Robertson, is that ?) (S. : I think I know.) (S. : Robert who ?)
[My question was absurd. I thought it an attempt to name my brother
Robert, but it was probably my uncle " Charles " asking if I was there.
(November 3rd, 1899.)—J. H. H.] [Cf. pp. 310, 317.] Do you know
Rector ? I remember him well.
Wasn't he there, James, or did he come in later ... to thee ?
(S. : Yes. He came in after you.)
I thought so, as I remember it.
Yes, Hyslop. I know who I am. And Annie, too.
Appendix I. 333
And long beforo the SUN shall set for you I will give you a full and
complete account of your old father, James.
Keep quiet, do not worry about any thing, as I used to say. It does not
pay. Remember this ?
[This sentence is word for word, if I may use the expression, what he
used to say to me when he found me worrying. The part " It does not
pay " is especially his phrase in this connection. The same can be said of
the reference to my not being " the strongest man " (see below}, except that
his phrase in life was usually, " you are not very strong," or "you are not
as strong as the others." I am, however, not so certain of his variety of
phrase as I am of his constant allusions to my want of strength and caution
ing me against worrying about things.—J. H. H.]
(R. H. : We've got him clear now.)
(S. : Yes, father, I remember that well.)
That, James, was my advice always, and it is still the same. You are
not strongest man you know and . . the [written above the word
ttrongesi] and health is important for you. Cheer up now and be quite
yourself.
(S. : Yes, father, I shall. I am glad to hear this advice.)
Remember, it does not pay, and life is too short there for you to spend
it in worrying. [Cf. pp. 40, 352.] You will come out all safe and well,
and will one day be reunited with us, and we shall meet face to face, and
you will know me well.
[Two expressions here are exactly like my father. He used frequently to
talk to us children of reunion after death, and spoke of " meeting face to
face." This latter phrase was also often used when speaking of meeting
God. -J. H. H.]
What you cannot have, be content without. [Not read.]
[This advice was also constantly his.—J. H. H.]
No ; before we go we want you to hear what . . what he is saying. R.
What you cannot have, be content without. [Not read.]
[R. H. says he cannot read the word after be.]
I must catch it while he is saying it. I will then repeat afterwards if
necessary . . afterwards.
(R. H. : Good.) U D. (R. H. : Yes.)
Be content without, he says. His sentence [sentense] was as follows :
What you cannot have, be content without . . be con . . [Read
correctly.] Yes. Health or anything else, but do not worry, and not for me.
This is going to be my life, and you will know all that is possible for any
one to know. (S. : Yes, father, I am glad of that. It will be my life here,
too.) Yes, I know it, and as we lived th . . lived there . . there so
we will also live here. Devoted you were to me always, and I have nothing
to complain of except your uneasy temperament, and that I will certainly
help. Only trust in all that is good, James, and be contented whilst you
stay, and I will certainly be near you. I am a little weary, James, but I
will return and recall, if possible, my medicine.
He is taking me away.
(R. H. : Yes, you will have one day more now with your son.)
Oh, let me refresh myself and return to him.
334 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(R. H. : Yes, think . . . )
Seek and ye shall find. [A biblical phrase often quoted by him to us. —
J. H. H.]
(R. H. [S.] : Father, good-bye until to-morrow, and I will see you
then.)
Come in to-morrow and see how I am getting along. Remember this ?
(S. : Yes, father. I shall remember this.) But do you remember my
saying this to you . . saying this. (S. : Yes, father.)
[I do not remember specific incident, but something like it occurred
frequently when I helped nurse him on his death-bed. (December 30th,
1899.)-J. H. H.]
What I will do [?] I will. [Crosses in air.]
+ Friends, we must cease now, and we have him in our holy keeping,
when all earthly recollections will return to his memory.
Patience and peace be unto thee. (Amen.)
Now speak, friend, if thou wilt, and we must be gone.
(R. H. : Only I was about to tell his father to think over some incidents
for him to come prepared to tell his son to-morrow.) [Cross in air.]
Well it will be. May the grace of God be with and abide with thee
evermore. + { R }.
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
II. [Some words of which all that I could distinguish was]
* * * James.
[While Dr. Hodgson was occupied in getting his things together, I
heard Mrs. Piper remark faintly just before emerging what sounded like
"Hyslop," though quite indistinct, soon after uttering the "James" as.
observed by Dr. Hodgson.—J. H. H.]
Sitting IV.
Record of Sitting, December 27th, 1898.
[Imperator writes.]
[Cross in air.]
+ H A I L. (R. H. : Hail, Imperator.)
We have thus far not failed thee, friend, neither will we * * *
[undec.] (R. H. : It is not very clear, the writing.) And we desire that
thy earthly friends * * * * [undec.] during the coming months, after
which we will give thee further instruction as to what * * * [undec.]
best to take. May . . . still may all good be over thee and His
blessings rest on thee. Thy friend's father will answer to * * [undec.]
and * * [undec.] of all that is desired of his or our hemisphere [?] of
life. U D.
(R. H. : I cannot more than a word or two at present. Do you wish our
friend here to go on now or do you wish to speak to me first ?)
It is well. But I entered first for the purpose of restoring the light.
(R. H. : Ah, yes.) and clearing the way for his father who is with us + .
(R. H. : Yes, I understand.)
XLI.] 335
Appendix I.
I go now and peace be with thee and thine + I. S. D. (R. H.: Amen.)
(R. H. to S. : Imperator had to come in himself for the purpose of
restoring the light.)
[Rector writes.]
Rector : Good morrow, friends, we meet thee once more and all is as we
would have it. We assist his friends to return with clear thought. (R. H. :
Yes.)
Yes. All is well. [Hand moves as though seeking something.] (S. :
Want to feel something?) [S. goes to get accordion.] James, James I am
here. My thoughts are clearer now and I know better than I did when I
left you before what you said to me.
(S. : Yes, father, good morning.)
Good morning, James. I see you are better. I am happier for it.
There shall be no veil between us. Wait patiently and all we talked of will
be made clear to you. Yes, my head seems clearer and I can see perfectly
. . . you. Oh yes. [The you apparently intended to follow see.]
(S. : Yes.) [Excitement.]
I can see and hear better than ever. Your voice to me does not seem so
far away. I will come nearer day by day.
Annie and I both, and all that transpired between us whilst in . . I
was in the body I will refer to, that you may be sure it is I.
I remember very well indeed and what I said. I was most emphatic in
. . iu my desire to know the truth and make you know it if possible.
Speak clearly, sir. Come over here [to Sp.] Yes.
Are you with James ? [to R. H.] (R. H. : Yes.)
Well, will you help me to return later if I wish to return ? If so, I will
try and free my mind now.
(R. H. : I shall be very pleased to take messages to your son at any time
when Rector or other messenger can bring them.)
Well, I will not feel troubled then, because I can have no further talks
with him now. James, do you remember what . . the things I took out
west . . West . .
(S. : Yes, father.) [Father moved "West" in the fall of 1889.—
J. H. H.]
Well, are they not for you . . . (S. : Some of them I think are.
What ones are for me ?)
I wish all the books, every one, and photos. (R. H. : Photos ?) (S. r
Pictures ?) painting, Picture . . . yes, every one of those of mine. I
took them out West, you remember. [Cf. p. 325.] (S. : Yes, I remember.)
I should have said that [?] I wished I would have had you have . .
d . . . them before now.
He speaks too rapidly, fearing he may forget something . . .
h . . had said all I wished.
Gannot you send for them. I am sure will . . will give them up.
(S. : Do you want one of the books to touch?) Yes, very much, my
diary, anything, diary . . . yes, or anything, any one of them. Give
me one, James, if possible. I have something on my mind. [Father kept
some sort of a journal which I may be able to find. I suspect that his.
account book is meant here, which was like a "diary."—J. H. H.]
336 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(S. : Well, father, I have no book with me now, but I shall send one to
my friend here.) Yes, and it will help me when you are gone. [Caret below
j/o/ie, ore above it.]
I remember Himi [or Hime]. S (R. H. : Is that Hume ?)
(S. : Yes, that is right.)
Yes. Give it me. S*** is [ ? ]
Hume[?]
hme [?]
(S. : Yes, that is right. Now one or two words after that.)
[Without having told me the seriousness of his condition, father all at
once sent me word to get him in New York the medicine known as
"Hyomei." He had tried a great many patent medicines, and, having
failed to get relief, resolved to try " Hyomei," which he had seen favourably
advertised. It is a medicine procured from some medical plant, and is to
be inhaled. I sent it to him, and it was the only thing that ever gave him
any decided relief.—J. H. H.]
S nut [ ? ] Serris doings [ ? ] I cannot catch all now . . . life
- . . You know what is in my mind perfectly, James. I used to speak
of it often.
(S. : Yes, father, I know what you have in your mind. Do not worry
about that part which I did not get..)
I will give him all of them. (R. H. : " All of them ? ")
Yes, he says. Yea.
[He took a variety of patent medicines, and meditated getting others that
he did not take. (November 3rd, 1899.)—J. H. H.]
Do you remember the little knife I used to pick [written on top of page
already filled. Fresh sheet turned] I used . . pick out my nails with
... (S. : I am not sure, father.)
The little brown handle one. I had it in my vest waist coat [t.ootsi super
posed on vest as if to take its place] w . . pocket. . . . Wait, wait.
He says I had it in my vest, and then in coat pocket. You certainly
must remember it. [I remember nothing of this, and in fact am sure I
never knew of any such knife.—J. H. H.]
(S. : Was this after you went out West ?)
Yes. [See Note 14, p. 359.] 1 seem to lose [loose] part of my recollec
tions between my absence and return, just before I had this change, and
the cap I used to wear, the cap ... [I know nothing of this cap. —
J. H. H.]
+ [Imperator] [Writing becomes quieter.]
the cap I used to wear. And this I have lost, too. [See Note 15,
p. 360, and c/. pp. 387, 406.]
James, let me see some of my trifles . . trifles. They can do no barm
and may help me to recall well.
(S. : This, father, is the only thing I have with me.) [Accordion.]
I am clearer when I see it. What will it be when you come, too, James
. . . all music not imitation . . . where is my coat 1 I begin to
think of what I do not need.
I am coming nearer you see . . ne . . need . . and all the
things I ever owned are passing through my head at this moment. Get the
Appendix I. 337
pictures ; do you not want them, James 1 (S. : Yes, father, I shall get them.)
I will be glad. I am thinking of Streine [!] Str . . Stri . . Strycn.
Speak. Speak. (S. : Well, father, is this Stryc ?)
Yes. (S. : Well what is the next letter ?)
N i a . . E . . E . . Str.
Slower, sir. Slower my friend, do not speak so fast. I will help you.
Now slower, [to Sp.]
StR . . Strycnine.
(S. : Good, father, that is right.)
[In saying "that is right" I meant that he had succeeded in making
clear what was evident to both of us as we saw the writing going on, but we
wished to see it completed. I know nothing about his use of strychnine. I
do not think I obtained any of it when I got the Hyomei. There was
certainly no reason for asking me to get it in New York, as it was easily
obtainable at the drug stores in the small town in which he lived, while the
Hyomei was not. If I obtained strychnine for him in New York, of which I
have not the slightest recollection, I could obtain it only through a prescrip
tion, and would not have known the name for it in pharmacy. If the fact of
its use by father be established and that he got it elsewhere also, then
the incident will be a good instance excluding ordinary telepathy as the
explanation of it. But if I did obtain it for him, as I feel very sure I did
not, the case would be amenable to the telepathic hypothesis, at least as a
possible explanation.—J. H. H.] [See Note 16, p. 360, Note 23, p. 365.]
He helped . . Helped . He told me I must answer your other
question first [i.e., Imperator told him to answer S.'s previous question
about the medicine. See previous sitting.]
Do you hear me . . my son? (S. : Yes, father, I hear you perfectly.) I
remember you went and got it for me. God bless you, James, he says. And
a numerous amount of other medicines [?] which I cannot * * [undec.]
+ thanks to thee, friend. All is well.
Ask Willie about the knife. [Name correct.]
(S. : Yes, father, I will ask Willie about it, but there is one other boy
who will know better than he.) I do not . . . George. [Name
correct.—J. H. H.] (S. : No, not George.) Rob. [Name correct. —J. H. H.]
Did you ask me to tell the other . . . Roberts [?] Robert.
(S. : That is good, father, but not the one. Yes, Robert is the right
name, but the one that will remember the knife is a younger boy.)
He will explain it to him and I will get his answer soon.
+ He is with him constantly. (R. H. to S. : That is, Imperator.)
Do you hear ine . . what I told you about George. (S. : Yes, you mean
before ?) Yes. I . . . (S. : Yes. I remember.) I had a good deal
to think of there, James. (S. : Yes, father, you did.) And the least said
the sooner mended. Hear. [See Note 4, p. 348] (S. : Yes, father, I
hear.) Do you U D. (S. : Yes, father, I understand.)
I will work now, and unceasingly as I can for him.
(R. H. : I think he means Imperator.) [Not correct, as him is spelt with
small h.—R. H.]
What . . . Cannot hear you ; do not hurry so. Do you mean
F . . .?
z
338 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(S. to R. H. : Yes, I see. That's all right.) James.
(S. : Yes, father, I mean F., if you can tell the rest.)
Yes, I can remember very well. F R A D [!]
[There appears here an attempt to spell the name of my youngest brother.
This is much more apparent in the original writing at the sitting than could
be indicated in print, except by a reproduction of what is here printed as
" D." In the original there are two lines which are like capital A without
the cross line, and so represent the first two strokes of capital "N," and to
these are added the curve which so strikingly resembles the letter "D."
The symbol might be taken as a poor attempt to make "N " and " K "
almost in one stroke. In fact it was written in one stroke, and the greater
resemblance to " D " in the final part of it is the decisive reason for re
garding it as too imperfect an attempt at " N " and " K " to say that these
were undoubtedly meant.—J. H. H.]
F RE . .
It is my fault, not his, wait a moment. R.
My stomach . . Stomach . . . strange it does not trouble, isn't it 1
If one is full of distress how can one feel other than depressed, but not so
with you. I wish I could step in and hear you at college [colledge] [The
phrase is characteristic and the word " college" very pertinent.—J. H. H.]
and see all that disturbs you. I would write right . soon right
things there for you. I had a will of my own . . . perhaps you will
remember.
(S. : Yes, father, I remember, but it was not a bad will.)
I am glad you think so. But if the rest had been like you, perhaps I
should have refused them anything . . . [R.H. reads over—hand
adds :] not. [This is very pertinent, and involves a suggestion of facts too
personal to publish, especially as it is connected with the reference to the
college just above.—J. H. H.] [Later events induced me to change this
purpose. See Note, pp. 402-405 (April 20th, 1901).- J. H. H.]
(S. : That's it. I know just what . . . )
But what I propose to do now, James, is to right matters to my own
liking . . liking . . especially with the boys. I assure you when I
can get so I can speak and say just what I like I will straighten out things
for you.
(R. H. : Rector, our friend here with me wrote out a few sentences to
read to his father. I think perhaps now would be a good time, if you will
ask him to listen calmly and quietly till his son James finishes reading.)
Yes.but let us say, friend, that he will only {at this period} be able to
receive it in fragments until I can go out and explain it to him.
He [Imperator] is with him, and will wait with me. R.
(R. H. : Yes. Do you think wiser to wait till just before we go ?)
Well, the better way would be to repeat now and . . .
(R. H. : Then later also.) [Strong assent.]
Yes. Thou art bright [light ?] to hear me so well.
(R. H. : Say when ready.)
Give me something of his that I may hold him quite clearly. [Accordion
given.]
[S. reads.]
Appendix I. 339
(Father, this is my last chance to talk with you until my friend asks ine
to do so again. You will remember to communicate with him from time to
time, and I shall write to him to greet you whenever he sends word from
you. I have not asked many questions, nor reminded you of any important
facts, because doing so would be interpreted here on earth as suggesting the
answers themselves.)
Ah, yes ; I remember the difficulties. [Cf. p. 341, and Note 24,
p. 365.]
(Hence I have wished to let you tell your own story, so that I could go
before the world and prove more clearly the great truth which we have at
heart. You know it is the work of Christ, and you will remember that I
always said that I wished to live the life of Christ, even if I was not a
believer.)
Perfectly. Yes. That is surely James.
(To meet you, then, in this way, and to feel that you will farther help
me give mankind the great truth of immortal life)
With God's help I will, my boy.
(is an inspiration which you can well understand. Keep your mind
clo.tr, and, whenever you can or are permitted, tell to my friend later some
facts in your life or mine, and other members of the family, their names
and so forth. These will be sent to me and I can verify them and put them
on record. You will then do a good work on your side that will help me
with Christ's work on this side.)
[This passage was prepared beforehand with a distinct purpose. I
resolved to test 6rst the memory of the communicator and second his
religious attitude. We had carried on a long correspondence in regard to
my apostasy from my early teaching, and he knew in life that I had taken
just the attitude here indicated. Moreover I had concealed my own name
and personal identity so thoroughly and avoided in all cases (unless we
except the mention of my Aunt Nannie to my sister) everything like the
suggestion of names or events that would lead to identification, that I was
curious to see what the response would be. It is certainly very striking, and
not less so for its apparent memory of our past relations, on the one hand,
and for the manner in which the recognition takes place. Here the state
ment, "Perfectly, yes, that is surely James," is not made to me, but to
Rector, and owing to the nature of the machine it slips through to me, so
to speak.—J. H. H.] [Another interpretation of it may be that Rector
appreciated its importance and delivered it intentionally (April 18th, 1900).
—J. H. H.]
[Finis.]
Yes, I will, and unceasimjly. You know my thoughts well, and you also
know what my desires were before entering this life . . enter . .
(S. to R. H. : Yes, that's an interesting word again.)
[I refer in this remark to what seems a departure from the spiritistic
lingo in the communicator's language. Father knew nothing about the
doctrine except in the vaguest way. He never came into contact with it,
never read any of its literature, and would know nothing of its lingo. But as
I had frequently noticed in the sittings expressions bearing the stamp of
acquaintance with its peculiar phraseology about death, I resolved to watch
z 2
340 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
for indications of departure from it and adoption of the more natural
phraseology characteristic of my father in life. I do not know the spiritistic
lingo myself well enough to say positively that there is a deviation from it
here. But a very natural spiritistic phrase here would have been " since
passing out," instead of "since entering this life." Hence in this case and
in one other in which the term "change" was used to express the same
idea, I wondered whether there was not a departure from the ordinary
spiritistic lingo. —J. H. H.]
and you also know whom I longed to meet and [not all read] what I
longed to do for you . . . whom he longed to meet, he says. [Read
correctly.] Yes, he says. [Cf. p. 389.]
(S. : Yes, father, I know well.)
Good. Keep it in mind, James, and I will push from this side whilst you
call from yours, and we will sooner or later come to a more complete U D.
(S. : Yes. I understand.)
[January 13th, 1900.—A phrase in the above sentence recalls a passage
which I read at Mrs. Piper's trance on February 9th, 1897. It occurred in
a letter written at my request by a personal friend of Stainton Moses, with
the view of helping the latter in his communications. The passage is : "I
write this letter because it seems possible that we may thus meet across the
barrier, my pull perhaps helping your push. " See also the phrase used at
the sitting of June 6th, 1899 (p. 474), " pulling with my push," and note
the remark made by Mrs. Piper's "subliminal" on June 3rd, 1899 (p. 457),
"Stainton Moses helping Hyslop."—R. H.]
[I may also call attention here to the fact that in the sitting of June 7th,
1899, near the beginning (p. 478), my father specifically alludes to Stainton
Moses by name, giving, however, only the name Moses, as having been one
of the persons to whom he had communicated something after he had ceased
speaking to mo at the end of the previous sitting of June 6th (p. 474).—
J. H. H.]
Go on. It helps me when I hear you speak, and will be of great advan.
tage [?] to me later when trying to speak with our friend here. Few, they
tell me, have had so good an opportunity as I have of returning so often, and
it has been [benf or bnef] of the greatest benefit to me . . benefit . .
and I will struggle on until my thoughts are all clear. And from my boyhood
to now . . boyhood . . I will recall every thing for you.
Cfo on I am waiting. >
(S. : Yes, father, I have read all that I wished to read, and I shall be
glad if you can recall and tell anything about a railroad collision.) [Ex
citement.]
Yea. I think I will, all about it, but do not ask me just yet, James . ,
ask me just yet . . just yet.
[The reader will notice a singular absurd break here on my part, which
shows as much incoherence and irrelevancy as could ever be charged to a
discarnate spirit. —J. H. H.]
(S. : All right. I will not. Do you remember much of your religious
life?)
Yes, I think I do, nearly everything, and my views, whereas they were
not just correct in everything, yet they were more or less correct, and . ,
XLT.] 341
Appendix I.
correct . . and I have found a great many things as I had pictured them
in my own earthly mind . . . Hear.
(S. : Yes, I hear.)
Since Christ came to the earthly world there has been a co . . almost
constant revelation of God and His power over all. (R. H. : Constant,
what is that !) Revelation he . . he says. [This language is very charac
teristic.—J. H. H.]
What do you remember, James, of our talks about Swedenborg . . S.
(S. : I remember only that we talked about him.)
Do you remember of our talking one evening in the library of his . . .
Library . . . about [his] op . . [the d of description superposed on
op] description of the Bible ? (S. : No.) Several years ago. (S. : No, I do
not remember it.) his oppinion opinion of . . Spiritual sense . . his
description of its Spiritual sense . . Sense. (S. : No, I do not remember
that, but perhaps some one else in the family does.)
I am sure of our talks on the subject. It may have been with one of the
others, to be sure. In any case I shall soon be able to remember all about
it. I am so much nearer and so much clearer now than when I vaguely saw
you here . . when [not read above] . . and when Charles tried to wake
me up here and . . Do you hear me ?
[This whole incident about Swedenborg is too vague to mo for any
claims to interest or significance. I have only the vaguest recollection that
I ever talked to him about Swedenborg, and I am not confident enough of
this to trust even myself in the matter, unless some one else can refreshen
my memory. If anyone had asked me whether father had ever known any
thing about Swedenborg, I should have answered No with a great deal of
confidence. It is possible that in the conversation with him, to which I
have referred, some discussion of Swedenborg may have occurred, and I
have an impression that it did. But I fear that my memory on this point is
worthless, and that it is but an impression that the talk was a possible
one.—J. H. H.] [See Note 17, p. 361 and pp. 31, 370.]
After a while I will repeat my views. I am glad you have not given
me any suggestions for your sake, but it has perplexed me a little, and at
times seemed unlike yourself. I faintly recall the . . faintly recall the
. . trouble on the subject of spirit-return. Hear. [Cf. p. 339.] (S. :
Yes, I hear.) I and I see and U D now.
(S. : Yes, I understand, and do you know where it was, and who were
with us ? )
He seems not to U D your quesn [ij [Not all read.]
I do ... he says. I do not U D your question, James.
(S. : Yes, father, you spoke about our talk about spirit-return, and I
asked if you could remember the persons who were with us at the time, and
when it was.) I think, if I remember rightly, it was in New York. [Not
correct. Father never saw New York after I went there to live.] [I had
discussed the subject briefly in some of my letters from New York, especially
at the time I sent him the Proceedings to read (November 3rd, 1899).—
J. H. H.]
(S. : No, it was not in New York. But two other persons were present
at the time.) Yes, well it will all come back to me, and I will, if not to you,
342 [part
J. H. Hyslnp, Ph.D.
give it to our friend. (S. : Yea, that is right, father. Do you wish to be
remembered to any others in the family ?) Yes, all of whom I have given
mention, and * * [two or three letters undec.] . al . . all and
I think I have not left out any one . . one . . have I, James ? (S. :
Yes, father, you've left out one I think you would be very glad to mention.)
Did you say one . . . yes . do. .
(S. : Yes. I said one. Not the children.) No, I think I have sent all
except sister. (S. : Yes, I think perhaps you are right. One thing I had
not understood. Now which sister is this ?) I mean Nan. R [P!] [followed
by one or two other letters undec.] Mannie. (S. : Yes, that is right
exactly.)
Give my love to her, of course, and if you knew my feeling at this
moment you would be pleased. She toas one of the best . . . (S. : Yes,
father, I know how you feel about it.) [Cf. p. 451.]
I am glad and free . . and free, oh glad I am, a more faithful one
[? interpreted at the time as son] never lived. (S. : Thank you father for
that.) It is just and . . . (S. : It is just like him.) right.
[My remark here was based on the original reading of the word "one" for
" son." The note, therefore, which followed at the time explaining its fitness
has been expunged. The statement, however, under the latter has as much
pertinence as ever, though its reference is not to myself and though it be
non-evidential as before. It is applicable to both my aunt Nannie and my
stepmother, but much more specifically to the latter. There is some
uncertainty as to which is meant in the passage. But there are several facts
which suggest a preference for my stepmother. (1) The word "sister" used
just previously would apply equally to my sister who had not been
mentioned, especially if we suppose that father had failed to express all
that he tried to say, especially also if we suppose that "Nan," which is
immediately changed to "Mannie," is an attempt to say " Maggie. " (2)
The name " Mannie " is as much an approximation to " Maggie," that of my
stepmother, as to that of my aunt Nannie (Cf. p. 343). The specific
discrimination of my aunt Eliza's sorrow in the same passage (see below), as
if not recognising the revelancy of the allusion to the other person in mind,
is particularly pertinent in three respects, on the interpretation that the
" Mannie " refers to my stepmother. First there is the specific selection of
" Eliza in her sorrow," as if she were not included with the other in mind.
Second, the discrimination is in agreement with facts suggesting a reason for
it (Cf. p. 363). Third, the previous reference to this aunt's sorrow (p. 316)
was appropriately connected with the recognition of the same grief in my
aunt Nannie Hence the preponderance of psychological evidence is here in
favour of the reference to my stepmother (May 20th, 1900).—.J. H. H.]
Tell Eliza too. (S. : Yes. I shall most certainly.) bo'h . . Both. (S. :
Yes. I shall tell both very gladly.)
And tell them to believe and trust in God always, [This is perfectly
characteristic.—J. H. H.] and I will often bring comfort to Eliza in her
sorrow. [This allusion has very great interest, but I shall not comment on
it until later.- J. H. H.]
(S. : What . . .) I will tell you, friend, all about it after James is
has [superposed on the is as if to take its place] gone. (R. H. : Very good.
Appendix I. 343
I shall be pleased.) I have seen him and will tell you all. (R. H. : I shall
take all you tell me with much pleasure.) (S. : Thank you, father.)
Do you remember the glasses ? (S. : What glasses ?) [I had one pair of
his glasses, and I think my stepmother had the other, but I wanted to
know more here.—J. H. H.]
and where they are ? She has them I think.
(8. : Yes. Who has them?) Nani. (S. to R. H. : Not quite.) (S. :
No, not Nannie.) Ani. (S. : What glasses did you ask about ?) M . . nni
[Interpreted at the time as mine.] (S. : Yes, father, I remember them.
Whom did you leave them with ! With whom did you leave them ?)
I am thinking. It was Eliza. [Correct. He died at her house and
left his glasses there. —J. H. H.]
I do not think I said just right.
(R. H. : He's getting dizzy.)
I will think it orer. [See Note 25, p. 365.]
(R. H. : Rector, perhaps he had better stop now ?) + [Imperator]
He longs to remain with him, but + is taking him away.
(R. H. to S. : Better say good-bye. Better get that ready to read over
again to Rector.)
And I will take thy message to him, friend, if thou wilt give it me.
(S. to R. H. : Tell me when.) (R. H. to S. : Oh, if you want to say
good-bye to your father, better say it now.)
James, good-bye, my boy.
(S. : Good-bye, father. I hope I can see you again.)
Be faithful to yourself and your Aunts, James, and do not worry about
anything.
(S. : No, father, I shall not worry about anything.)
If you will do this . . if you . . all will be as I would have it.
(S. : Yes, father, I believe it, and I shall do my best.)
He is going . . . give me thy message.
(R. H. : Rector, will you have the message now, or first let me ask about
the next arrangement for sitters ?) + [Imperator.]
Will have thee give it to me just before I go. (R. H. : Yes.)
(R. H. : Mrs. D. is anxious to see you.) But we have arranged to meet
her next time. (R. H. : Yes, I thought so, but was not absolutely sure.
After that what do you wish?) We desire to meet thee on . .
immediately we . . after we . . . yes unless . . .
(R. H. : To-morrow Mrs. D., next day myself, and then we can
arrange further details.) + Well. Had it not been for Him we could
not have helped this . . . [new communicator] (R. H. : Yes, I under
stand. )
But, friend, thou knowest not the food which . . food . . lieth
in store for thee regarding this new communicator. He is all that is good
and tine. (R. H. : I am delighted to hear that you are pleased with him.)
[Cross in air.]
(R H. : Shall he . . .) speak. (R H. : Shall my friend now read his
message ?) Yes He is waiting to take it to his father, who is standing beside
him now.
[S. reads again the statement given above, p. 339.]
344 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Amen. James, go forth, my son, in perfect peace with the world and God
who governs all things wisely . . wisely . . and I will be faithful to
you until we meet face to face in this world.
(R. H. : Amen.) [This is very like father.—J. H. H.]
We cannot possibly hold the light, it is going out and we must go with it.
Friend, we have met with joy, and we depart with . . in like manner.
Fear not, God is . . is . ever thy guide, and He will never fail thee.
(R. H. : Amen.) We cease now, and may His blessings rest on thee.
+ {R} (R. H.: Amen.)
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
Mrs. P., as she began to come out of the trance, first uttered indistinctly
"Hyslop," and then said also indistinctly, "Robert Hyslop." This, of
course, was the name of my father.—J. H. H.
Additional Notes on Sittings of December 23rd, 2\th, 2Qth, 27th, 1898.
(Note 1.)
New York, April 26tt, 1899.
Apropos of the statements made at the beginning of the present report
regarding the precautions taken fur secrecy and the extent to which they
were fulfilled, the following incidents are of some importance, at least to the
would-be critic, in the case. The precautions were designed to shut out
absolutely everybody from a knowledge of my intentions except Dr. Hodgson
and myself. As a matter of fact this was effected, though there was one
little mishap that might have led to discovery and mistake in the realisation
of this purpose. I had carrried on my correspondence regarding the sittings
directly with Dr. Hodgson at his residential address, and not at the office,
so as to exclude all knowledge of my purpose from the Assistant-Secretary
of the Branch, Miss Edmunds. This I did not at all feel necessary, but only
wanted to be able to say that it was a fact in order to satisfy the naturally
scrupulous and cautious scientist. But after getting the promise of sittings
at some future date I wrote a short letter to Dr. Hodgson, and from mere
habit, after actually looking up Dr. Hodgson's house address, made the
mistake of writing the office address, and the letter was opened by Miss
Edmunds, as she usually opened the official mail. I had been careful to cut
off all headlines that might lead to my immediate identification by any one
not in the office and who did not know me either by name or personally.
My signature was attached to the letter. The letter was sent to Dr.
Hodgson apparently without reading it though after opening. The following
is an exact copy of the letter without the omission of a word or sign.
November 13th, 1898.
Mv dear Hodgson,—I have not been at the college since Friday, and do
not know what mail will be awaiting me there when I go down to-morrow.
But I do not wait to ascertain this until I write asking that you tell me by
return mail, if you have not already written me, whether I am to have the
XLI.] 345
Appendix I.
sittings for the dates mentioned some time ago. I wish to make final
arrangements for the trip. You will have to tell me when and where to
meet you—Yours as ever, J R Hvsi.oi,
It had been intended originally to have the sittings earlier than the date
actually fixed on at last. But as soon as Dr. Hodgson received the above
note he returned it with his reply, calling my attention to my mistake.
Nevertheless I withheld more carefully than ever all further intimation of
my intentions, and when I went on to Boston during the holidays for the
sittings and was taken to the office, before introducing me to Miss Edmunds,
with whom I had frequently corresponded in his absence, but whom I had
never met, I said to Dr. Hodgson that I was not acquainted with Miss
Edmunds, but that she probably knew my intentions from that mistake in
my letter. But he decided with my advice nevertheless to introduce mo to
her under his regular pseudonym, Mr. Smith, and did so with the jovial
remark, "Another Mr. Smith," and added : "Perhaps you know him, Miss
Edmunds." She replied that she did not, and I reservedly added that 1
had never met her. She then spoke up : " Oh, is this Professor Hyslop ? "
As the cat was out of the bag I said : " Yos, but I intended to keep the fact
a secret, but as you saw my letter referring to my intentions I may as well
confess." " No," she said, " I did not see any letter, but as we were going
over the copy in the office this morning it flashed over my mind that the
stranger called "the four times friend" was Professor Hyslop, but I did
not remark the fact to Miss S (assistant) until about an hour ago. But
it was only a guess, as I did not know you were going to have sittings. I
simply remarked to her that I wondered why Professor Hyslop would not
like to have some sittings, as he is interested in them." But as my letter
had been opened by Miss Edmunds in pursuance of her custom, I deemed it
best to have her statement regarding her knowledge of my sittings to be put
on record with my report. I therefore wrote her to explain her relation
to the question, and to state what she knew of my intentions. The following
is her reply :—
5, Boylston Place, Boston, Mass., January X2th, 1899.
Dear Professor Hvsi.op,—I can give no distinct reason why I guessed
that you were " The Four Days Friend," as I certainly had not reasoned it
out, but thought that I had guessed it from reading allusions in the sittings
to " The Four Days Friend."
On first reading your letter of January 8th, I remembered nothing of the
letter you refer to, but on talking it over with Dr. Hodgson, I dimly
remember opening a letter from you addressed to Dr. Hodgson, some time
ago, which I thought might contain something I could attend to, Dr. Hodg
son being busy, and not often at the office. Since his return from England
I have, in fact, opened most letters, but I usually put aside yours, Dr.
Newbold's, and those from any one whom I know to be a personal friend.
This special letter has, however, made so little impression on me that it
is quite likely I did not read it, but simply glanced at it hurriedly, and put
it aside as something that I could not answer or help in. What my "subli
minal " may have caught from that hasty glance, I cannot now, of course,
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D. [I'ART
account for. Soon after the return of Dr. Hodgson I remember your send
ing one or more letters addressed to him containing references to cases such
as Mrs. D., about which he did not know, and this probably accounted for
my opening that letter. Also when he first returned, I opened more letters
than I do now because he was away from Boston for the first two months,
and this special letter I simply left in his desk (or else forwarded it to Bar
Harbour, I do not know which) and he has made no remark about it until
now, when I showed him your letter of the 8th inst.
Another unconscious factor leading to the guess may have been that
when you wrote me during the summer to engage sittings " for a friend," I
thought it not unlikely that the "friend " was yourself ; but I did not men
tion this to any one and thought no more of it.
I mentioned to no one outside the office my "guess" of " The Four
Days Friend," but on the day of your arrival, and just before you came in
with Dr. Hodgson, I remarked to Miss S , our stenographer, " I guess
'The Four Days Friend ' to be Professor Hyslop." Less than an hour after
this you entered, and you will remember that, before guessing you to be
Professor Hyslop, I asked whether you were " The Four Days Friend," and
was told "yes." "Then," I said, " it is Professor Hyslop."
As I knew Miss S. would copy the sittings and would be sure to over
hear something, and would know that you were in Boston, I thought it
would do no harm to mention my guess to her. She also remembers my once
remarking to Miss [Printer's mistake for Dr.] Hodgson, " I should think
Professor Hyslop would want sittings," and Dr. Hodgson was absolutely
indifferent about it. He has, in fact, given no hint.
Since your Forum and Independent articles, it seemed in the natural
order of things that you should want some sittings.
All this may not be very clear, but it is absolutely all I can think of to
the minutest detail, and it is needless to say that I have used gxess in the
purely English sense of the word.—Yours sincerely,
Lucv Edmunds.
(Note 2.)
New York, January 15th, 1899.
It is important to mention for the benefit of the reader that the intro
ductory remarks and notes about the incidents at the close of the sittings
when Mrs. Piper was coming out of thu trance were written immediately
after the sittings while they were perfectly clear to memory. Indeed in
most cases full notes were taken at the time, and had only to be sup
plemented by additional incidents from memory. I postponed absolutely
nothing but the interpretation of the messages any longer than was possible,
so that no intervening duties and thoughts occurred to disturb the accuracy
of the account as it stands. Some of the notes in regard to the truth or
falsity of the facts were written after my return to New York, but I was
exceedingly careful not to wait until so late a time to write anything that
involved a memory, for more than five or six hours, of incidents at the
sittings. The record shows a complete account of everything said or
written at the sitting except my observations of incidents in regard to the
XLI.] 347
Appendix I.
trance, which were written down from copious notes and memory
immediately after returning to Boston, including as I have said, what Mrs.
Piper said as she came out of the trance. This account will therefore be
found accurate and full, and without any defects that might otherwise mar
the impression to be made by the record. Nothing is omitted which the
critic might desire to know.—J. H. H.
(Note 3.)
New York, January 15th, 1899.
Yesterday I took the manuscript copies of my sittings to one of the aunts
who were mentioned in the sittings by my father. Her prejudices are all
against this sort of work, and she has always warned me away from
spiritualism, so that I did not expect to receive any favourable attention.
I was surprised when I had read the accounts over to her to find that they
impressed her so strongly that she admitted at once and without indication
of my own attitude toward them the force of the claim for their spiritistic
character. She remarked, however, in a somewhat reluctant way, too, that
she did not wish to commit herself in writing to that view, though she was
apparently willing to hold it personally. The thought was that I was
desiring to have this conclusion supported by her opinion of the incidents-
But I explained that I wished only to have her impressions as to the
pertinence of the facts to such a supposition and her corroboration of the
personal and characteristic features of the communicator purporting to be
my father. These were accorded with frankness, and some light was thrown
by her upon some incidents of which I knew nothing and some which, if I
ever knew them, were wholly forgotten. But her recognition of the
vrainemblance to my father was distinct and emphatic, much more so than I
had expected, considering the strong prejudices which she had and has
always had against spiritualism. I expected a perfectly deaf ear to the
whole subject, and such an attitude of contempt as would somewhat throw
discredit upon my judgment on this point, and so was prepared for a
setback. I was therefore agreeably disappointed in this result. As an
indication of the real impression upon her mind, I may narrate the following
interesting incident in which her conviction was unconsciously betrayed with
some force. After my remark that I did not expect her to commit herself
to the spiritistic view, I said that there was a loophole for getting out of it,
and mentioned the telepathic hypothesis, which I explained, and of which
she had known something from past conversations when I had rejected the
spiritistic theory on the ground of telepathy. For a moment she under
stood that I was advancing that theory here to explain the spiritistic
view away, and she showed some mental resistance to this procedure.
But when I remarked that I did not accept the ability of the telepathic
theory to explain away the spiritistic theory, except on the assumpti n
of such gigantic suppositions that it would strain any credulity to believe,
she showed a decided welcome to my position, and expressed voluntarily
her preference for the idea of communication with departed spirits. I
was amazed at the readiness to accept such a position after the smiles
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D. [part
and half sneers of the past when I had tolerated that theory as a possible
alternative to telepathy, and more especially after the repeated warnings
given me in regard to spiritualism.
From her I received also some corroboration of important incidents and,
in addition to this, facts which indicate that significance attaches to certain
statements in the sittings which I had thought were a part of the automatism
that awakens suspicion of the whole thing. I shall explain this matter on
a separate sheet.—J. H. H.
May 24th, 1899.
P.S.—In the sitting of December 26th there is a curious fact upon which
I did not comment when I wrote the above, but I had my attention called to
it yesterday when reading my report over. The phrase is " Give my love
and tell (?) sister Annie tells her . . . Anna not Anna but Annie. I
am your sister." Now I learned from my Aunt Nannie in Philadelphia
when I read the account to her that my sister was christened Anna, not
Annie, and that my mother always insisted on calling her Anna, and corrected
it when pronounced Annie by any one. This fact was spontaneously
mentioned to me by my aunt. I have no conscious recollection either of my
mother's interest in this matter or whether we were in the habit of calling
her Anna rather than Annie. —J. H. H.
(Note 4.)
Now York, January loth, 1899.
There are four different phrases in the record which struck my aunt on
reading it as quite characteristic of my father. Many other statements were
recognised as characteristic of him in sentiment, but these four phrases were
identified as such and without reference to sentiment. The first of these is
the phrase, " Well, I was not so far wrong after all," which occurred in the
second sitting while referring to my conversation with my father on the
subject of psychical research. The next instance is the phrase "own
ideas " used in the second sitting in reference to the same fact. This
instance has less significance than the former, because it is less individual,
though it represents the choice of expression which my father would make
when others might take "opinions" in preference. The third illustration
is the biblical quotation, "What is their loss is our gain," in the second
sitting. Even the plural pronoun is pertinent here. My aunt confirms my
impression that the phrase was characteristic of father. This might be true
of many others at the same time, but it was so characteristic of him and his
intimate family relations in just such connections as are indicated here that
the phrase is striking. The same can be said of the phrase " Seek and you
shall find " in the third sitting, just after promising to do all he could to
satisfy my object in these sittings and just as the sitting was coming to a
close. This makes a fifth, and I might add a sixth, "Tell them to believe
and trust in God always " near the close of the fourth sitting when asking
me to be remembered apparently to his sisters, but probably to the sister
named, Eliza, and my stepmother. This instance my aunt recognised
as extraordinarily characteristic, both for its pertinence and for its
XL!.] 349
Appendix I.
resemblance to father's habit in circumstances such as are indicated here.
Both aunts had recently lost their husbands, and though only one of them
is distinctly alluded to, and this not the husband of the one who recognises
the characteristic nature of the phrase, the expression and the situation
were just what father would appropriate in this manner, and my aunt
attests that this was father's mode of speech or writing in such situations.
I remember the same myself as frequent enough, but after my scepticism it
was not so often that it was used to me.
But the instance of most interest is the one which I intended to regard as
the fourth, and of which I knew nothing as characteristic of father until my
aunt indicated the fact. It is the phrase, "And the least said the sooner
mended," in the fourth sitting when referring to affairs connected with my
brother. The history of the expression is as follows. My aunt says that the
phrase was a constant one with her father, and that he taught it to his wife,
who did not use it at first, and that it became a family expression to mean
that certain things had not better be talked about too freely, because they
might give trouble, especially in matters that were in danger of becoming
gossip. I myself never used the phrase, and it struck me as so odd here that
I did not see its meaning at all in this connection, and hence did not catch
its pertinence until its characteristic nature was remarked by my aunt. In
this light and with her statement regarding the use of the expression in their
family I see a remarkable pertinence in its use here when referring to the
friction with my brother. It also throws light upon the expression a little
later (p. 337) which Dr. Hodgson thought a mistake, namely, " for him,"
which, if it meant Imperator, ought to have been spelled with capitals as is
usual. But evidently it refers to my brother. But, aside from this reference
and pertinent allusion, the most important thing under consideration at
present is the characteristic nature of the expression and its history
beyond my knowledge at the time. I cannot recall ever hearing father
use it. It is possible that I have heard its use by him, but I am certain
that I have not heard it frequently enough to think it characteristic of him.
This judgment is borne out by the unintelligible nature of the expression
until explained to me by my aunt.—J. H. H.
(Note 5.)
New York, January loth, 1899.
There are some incidents in the sittings that have taken on a meaning
which they could not have at the time owing to my ignorance of the facts
necessary to understand them. These facts I found out from my aunt when
I showed her the record.
In the first sitting the first name announced was Margaret, which, as I said
at the time, I thought was the name of my oldest sister. This I find is
correct. I do not recollect her, as she died when I was only two years old.
In connection with her name was mentioned " Lillie," which had no mean
ing for me. This could possibly be taken as an attempt to give the name of
my twin sister, whom I do not remember and who died when two years
old. [I have since ascertained that this twin sister was only four months
350 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
old when she died]. Her name was Sarah Luella. I could not and should
not put this possible interpretation upon it were it not for what my sister
Annie said in the third sitting when she came in to ask about the lock of
hair and pictures. The record (p. 331) shows the question " Do you know
who Sarah is . . . Annie." This "Sarah" had no meaning for me
whatever, and I thought it a part of the nonsense which is so common with
mediumistic phenomena, until the correctness of the name was indicated by
my aunt, who said that this was the name of my twin sister. The whole
passage becomes perfectly intelligible with the supposition that this sister
is meant. I now wonder whether this same person was meant in the first
sitting when my brother Charles referred to "one who is nearer to you than
all the rest of us," and which had no meaning to me then.
In this same passage previously my brother Charles had said that he
had suffered from typhoid fever. This, as I recorded at the time, was
false, and I thought that the same verdict should be passed upon the state
ment of the trouble with the throat, and that it had taken him "over here."
But I find from my aunt that he suffered with a very putrid sore throat
while he had the scarlet fever, and that he was sick only four days. There
is no one living that could say anything more about the expression, "because
the membrane formed in my throat." The phrase is pertinent, however,
and probably states a fact, as the scarlet fever was of a very malignant
form. There is no one also to attest the relevancy of the reference to the
trouble with his head. This might be true of any sickness. I have a very
faint recollection of the sore throat, and none at all of the length of his
sickness.
In the first sitting also there was an apparent reference to the name
' ' Corrie " which I could not read, and when it occurred to me that ' ' Mary "
was meant I asked if this was the name. The answer was in the affirmative
and added that she was my father's sister. I knew nothing about this and
supposed that it had no pertinence. But I have found from my aunt that
her oldest sister's name was Mary. I had never heard her called this,
and, in fact, she died before I knew her. I had always heard her called
Amanda. Her name was Mary Amanda. The reference to " Elizabeth "
also had no meaning to me at the sitting, but I learned from my aunt that
my mother had a sister by the name of Eliza, who died when my mother
was very young. There is only the specification of the relationship here to
indicate the possibility in the name. Perhaps, also, the "Corrie" men
tioned was an attempt to give the name of my aunt Cornelia, also my
mother's sister still living, and whom we always called aunt Cora. See
sitting of June 1st (p. 452), whore a closer approach to the name is made.
—J. H. H.
(Note 6.)
New York, March 26th, 1899.
I sent the manuscript of my first four sittings to bo read by my step
mother and brother with the request that they make any comments they
desired, confirmatory or derogatory of the facts presented in the record.
My first letter was misunderstood by my stepmother, she thinking that I
had asked for an expression of opinion as to the genuineness of the case
XLI.] 351
Appendix I.
and its spiritistic character, though I was careful to say that I wanted
nothing but a statement as to what was and what was not fact in the record.
In her reply, after answering some questions that pertain to later sittings,
she wrote as follows: "As to making any comments, it is too mystical.
There are some striking things, but I cannot help thinking that there is
fraud in it. I do not want to comment on anything that I know so little
about. I will give you all the information I can, but many things in the
sittings seem like guess-work. One thing I know is this : Your father's
affection for you always remained firm. One of his marks of affection was
to reprove when he thought one went astray. As he grew older and more
helpless he seemed to rely on you more than on any of the other children.
I hope your mind will become clear on the important subject you are
investigating."
I wrote in reply to this that I did not wish any expression of opinion on
the merits of the work, and that I regarded a severely sceptical attitude of
mind the proper one to take regarding the explanation of the case, but that
my object was mainly to have the facts confirmed or denied. I further
advised her not at any time to form opinions as to explanations, but to
critically scrutinise the alleged facts, and say what she could for or against
them simply as facts. The following is the response to this.
Bloomington, Ind., March 23rd, 1899.
Mv dear James,—In going over the report again I can corroborate most
of your comments. On page 313 of December 24th, the recognition of
your presence seems quite natural, and on page 318 "I was not so far
wrong after all " is his language. December 26th, on page 325, there
is language that sounds like his, "That, if I remember rightly, was the
one great question which we talked over."
Another expression on page 333, " Only trust in all that is good, James,
and be contented, etc." But most of the language has very little meaning
that I can see. Frank has made comments more fully—so I will just
corroborate yours.—Affectionately, Mothbr
My brother, whose education qualified him to speak with more intelli
gence of the case, especially as he had read two of the reports on it, wrote
me at first, in reply to my request, that he would wait for a better under
standing of what was wanted, and this was explained as indicated above.
But he commented in advance as follows. It must be remembered that I
did not explain to him anything about the sittings or the persons supposed
to be represented in them. Hence the pertinence of his interpretation of the
incidents will be evident at a glance. " In the sitting of December 24th,
pages 315 and 318, " he says, " is it supposed to be father or uncle James
Carruthers who is talking 1 I do not see that I can make any comments of
any material value. You remember I left Delphi in the August of the year
previous to father's death. So I did not see him for almost a year, so that
the larger part of the things spoken of I know nothing about. Some of the
expressions, as for example in the sitting of December 24th, page 315, ' I
would not return for . . . music, flowers, drives, etc.,' do not seem like
what father would use. I need not point out others, for you will recognise
352 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
them as readily as I. I have read the reports all carefully and do not find any
statements that I know to be false other than those you have marked as such."
In reply to my explanation that I wanted only such confirmation or
denial of facts as suggested themselves to him, my brother answers as
follows :—
Bloomington, Ind., March 22nd, 1899.
Mv dear Brother James,—In regard to the first sitting I do not think
it worth while to make any particular comments. In the other sittings many
of the expressions used are very like those that father used in his conversa
tion and correspondence, while others seem very unnatural for him to use.
In the sitting of December 24th, the narrative on pages 313 and 314 is
all very natural to father in tone and expression. When starting to meet
some one at the door or yard gate he would often say : " Give me my hat "
(page 313). From page 314 to 316 it is more like uncle James Carruthers
than father.
I do not remember father to have used the expression "the girls" in
speaking of his sisters, as on page 316. "What is their loss?" etc. was
a common expression of father's. Page 317 is very natural, especially the
expression "stick to this" ; and page 318, "My toy, I remember, "etc. ;
page 318, " you had your own ideas " ; page 320, " Everything in life," etc.
I have known father more than once to express to mo and others his
pride in your attainments, and at the same time deprecate your scepticism.
Page 321, '' I know well," etc., is very natural.
In the sitting for December 26th there is nothing that calls for comment
other than what you have made until we reach page 332. Here the
expression " Now out with it, James " is very natural to father. But the
following, "Do you hear her sing? "l seems strange for him. On page 333,
"It does not pay " was his common expression ; page 333, " will one day be
reunited with us and we shall meet face to face " is father's form of
expression for this thought. Page 334, "Seek and ye shall find "was
a frequent expression of his.
In the sitting of December 27th, page 335, "There shall be no veil,
etc.," is natural to father. Page 336—Father had a little brown handled
knife, but I did not know him to carry it in his vest or coat pocket.
He had a cap which he wore for a nightcap perhaps two or three times.
Page 336, "James, let me see some of my trifles. They can do no
harm," etc., does not seem natural.i The narrative on pages 3j7, 338, 339,
340 is very natural in tone and expression. Page 341 —Father did not
commonly refer to any part of the house as "the library." Page 341
seems foreign in language and thought. Page 342 is very lifelike,
especially the advice to "trust in God always." Page 343, "If you will do
—all will be as I would have it," is his form of expression.
The expressions to which I have directed attention, with the exceptions
noted, are very like what father commonly used in his conversation and
correspondence.—Yours as ever, Frank E. Hvsi.op.
i The statement about the singing and the request for trifles my brother does not
understand, and it is not surprising that they seem unnatural. The second is a
request for some article to be given the medium, and the first is one of the automatisms
which are quite frequent in these sittings.—J. H. H.
XLI.] 353
Appendix I.
(Note 7.)
New York, April 17th, 1899.
The following notes represent the results of my later inquiries as well as
some of the earlier ones which have not yet been worked up. I made my
inquiries at once after the sittings and preserved the replies which are now
summarised and recorded. The inquiries were made without telling the
parties what my experiments had been, though they were surmised from the
nature of my questions. But I carefully concealed the nature of the
incidents which I wished to have corroborated or denied. This was especially
the case with the incident about the brown handled knife which was
corroborated in regard to its separate details and without the slightest hint
regarding the facts stated in the sittings.
The first incident relates to the communication that evidently purports
to come from an uncle of mine that had died after I made arrangements for
my sittings. While making the notes to the second sitting and whilst in
Boston I wrote to my aunt the following letter apropos of the reference to
my uncle by Mrs. Piper. This was before the third sitting was held.
Boston, Mass., December 24th, 1898.
Mv dear Aunt,—Did you see Uncle James C recently in your
sleep ? Or did you dream of seeing him ? Write to me at once in New
York.—Yours as ever,
J. H. Hvsi.op.
The following was the reply I received, omitting those parts which are
advice to me to abstain from the investigation which my aunt had surmised
I was engaged in.
Xenia, Ohio, December 27th, 1898.
Mv dear Nephew,—Yours received this morning and in answer will say,
I have neither seen him in my sleep nor dreamed of seeing him, but really I
cannot see the difference. It is said those whom you think the most about
you do not dream of them. I have never but once dreamed of your father
and I am sure I have thought of him often, and your uncle James is seldom
irom my mind in my waking hours.
I send you this, not knowing why you need it. I have no faith in
spiritualism, but the guidance of the Holy Spirit is what I seek . . . ,—
Singly. E. A. C
This letter I received on the morning of the 28th, and on the same
morning I wrote the following second inquiry :—
519, West 149th Street, New York, December 28th, 1898.
Mv dear Aunt.—Please to answer the following question at once : Did
Uncle C and you have walks, drives and book-reading together, which
you used to enjoy with each other, and did he enjoy music greatly ?—Yours
a8 ever> J. H. Hvsi.op.
The following was the answer to this inquiry, but not dated. It is post
marked, however, " Xenia, Ohio, Dec. 30, 3.30 p.m., *98," and received by
me on the 31st.
2 A
354 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Mv drar James.—We did have many walks, drives and book-reading
together, particularly the Sabbath-school lessons. He enjoyed music, but
could not sing. He always sang at worship and when I would be up he
would be down. Yet he enjoyed music from others. —Lovingly,
E. A. C
This latter in the main corroborates the incidents for which inquiry was
made, though they may not have the weight desirableinthecase. Knowing
my uncle and his life as I did I myself must attach some value to them.
The incidents mentioned are not so common in family life in the region
where he lived, however common they might be for mankind at large, and
appear to be specific matters of taste and habit in the actual life of the
alleged communicator. I was absolutely ignorant of them. I knew that my
uncle had a piano in his house and that his daughter played on it, but I
would never have supposed that he was fond of music, as I never heard the
instrument played in his home more than a few times. I might have sur
mised that he liked music, but I would not have guessed that he was in the
habit of taking drives, walks, and engaging in book-reading with my aunt as
a special pleasure. His life was a comparatively busy one in a small country
town.
When I began to write these notes on April 9th I soon observed that the
passage that I had interpreted as from my uncle might be partly a message
from my father. I was struck first with the statement of my aunt that she
had seen father in her dream, and this without any inquiry from me to know
whether she had or not. I re-read the whole passage carefully which had
always puzzled me on account of its apparent origin from my father in so far
as the continuity of the messages was concerned, but also seemed to represent
at a sudden sUge of the communications the incidents in the life of my uncle
which did not characterise my father's habits. That is to say, I could never
assure myself whether the narrative applied wholly to my uncle or partly to
my father and partly to my uncle. The first person is used in both cases,
so that it would seem we should make it all hang together. The interesting
fact creating a suspicion of this procedure is that my father also died in the
same house, so that some of the language that would otherwise be un
doubtedly interpreted as referring only to my uncle could also apply to my
father. For example, the reference to leaving my aunt. But there is no
special reason for this statement on the part of my father, except an
automatism, as it would be so natural for my uncle to say this in reference
to his wife. The two things in favour of its being my father are (1) the fact
that the alleged communicator was my father up to the mention of my
aunt's name (Eliza), and there was no hint of a change of communicator, (2)
the traces of automatism just after the mention of my aunt's having seen
the communicator in sleep. A change of communicator often takes place at
such times, and there was here time to have another take the place of the
person thus swooning. The only external fact favoring this interpretation
is that my aunt actually saw my father in a dream as here stated of the
communicator, which I found was not true of my uncle. But aside from
this actual coincidence and the circumstance of swooning, as we describe it,
the whole narrative would also apply to my uncle as well. Nor would the
XLI.] 355
Appendix J,
manner of addressing me by name alter this interpretation, as my uncle
called me always by the same name as did my father here. But I wrote
nevertheless to my aunt after this second examination of the passages and
asked her to describe the dream in its details as she could remember it. I
obtained the following reply to my inquiries.
Xeuia, Ohio, April \Sth, 1899.
Mv dear James,—Yours received and at your request I proceed to answer
according to the best of my ability and memory.
I saw your father in some strange place at one of the old picnics which
y..u know he so much enjoyed. I think now it must have been in Delphi, as
the place was not familiar to me. He was sitting on a log with a group of
others with whom I was not particularly acquainted. I only saw him, did
not speak. He had on his hat and seemed to be enjoying himself, as he was
the centre of a group. I have not yet dreamed of Mr. C , and I do not
want to do so, as the awakening would be dreadful.—Lovingly,
Aunt Ei.iza.
I had inquired to know when the dream had occurred and have had
to repeat this inquiry. The answer will be found below. But the
coincidence cannot in any case be given any amount of evidential value.
The utmost that can be assigned it is the circumstance that the
ambiguity of the passage is such that we cannot say the incident is
incorrect. It would be incorrect if we assume that the co'imunicator,
beginning with the mention of my aunt's name, is my uncle. This view
obliges us to suppose that there was an unannounced introduction of my
uncle while my father was supposed to be communicating, and this, of
course, is quite as possible as any other alternative. On the other hand,
as my father died in my uncle's home, and some of the statements alluding
to his having left my aunt are applicable to him, assuming that they are
rather automatisms, we could assume the truth of the dream incident, and
introduce my uncle immediately after it, with the remainder of the
narrative belonging to him. But I think it is impossible to clear up the
passage in every respect. The simplest way to give it unity is to sup
pose that the statement regarding what my aunt saw in her sleep is
either a mediumistic guess or an automatism, and so to treat the general
incidents as referring to my uncle, whatever hypothesis we adopt to
explain them. The following letter, however, explains itself as indicating
when the dream occurred.
Xenia, Ohio, April 17th, 1899.
Mv dear James,—Yours came this morning, and as you are so very
prompt and so readily accede to my wishes with reference to the northern
land I will also try to be prompt.
The dream about your father was after his death. I cannot state the
exact time, but I think not long before your uncle's death, as I told him
how life-like your father looked. I have not dreamed of him since, neither
of your uncle D nor of your uncle James. —Yours lovingly,
A.CST Ei.iza C .
356 [part
.7. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
The interesting feature of this last letter is the remark that my " father
looked so life-like." This makes the experience resemble those cases of dreams
and apparitions which are noted as clear and life-like at the time and that
often turn out suggestive or coincidental. The records show that this feature
often appears in the cases that are afterward discovered to be apparently
significant, and therefore has its interest. We must not, however, be in
haste to attach any such significance to this incident. It is simply to be
remarked as a fact that comes to the surface without any questions or sug
gestions from me. It might well be natural to remark this characteristic in
the dream from the fact that it was the only dream that my aunt had of my
father after his death, and this circumstance might justify either the sus
picion of an illusion in regard to its special clearness or the supposition that
it was not clearer than are, perhaps, all dreams. Hence I do not wish to be
taken as assuming any importance in the coincidence, but only as remarking
the fact, and if any one wishes to give it importance he may do so, though
any such interpretation must run the gauntlet which even much better
accredited coincidences have hard work in surviving. It raises a question,
however, which may be answered in further sittings, and it is possible even
to clear up the doubts involved in the equivocal nature of the whole
incident.
(.NoU 8.)
New York, April 19th, 1899.
The following letter was in response to a request to make the date
and incidents more specific than the undated and dictated letter already
recorded has done (p. 329). It is, moreover, signed by the physician
himself, and makes the facts more certain and definite than before. It
refers to my conjecture at the time of the sittings that the consciousness of
congestion was a fact in the knowledge of my father at the time of his
death.
Xenia, Ohio, January 4th, 1899.
J. H. Hysi.op,—Dear Sir,—Your letter of the 2nd to hand, and noted.
In answer to your question, " Whether you remember saying to father or in
his presence that congestion occurred when he had his spasms and suffered
from difficulty in breathing," I would say that I did state to your father
that there was congestion (passive) of the lungs when he had his spasms
and suffered from difficulty in breathing. I also stated the same fact to
friends in his presence. —Yours sincerely, J p j)ICE ]yj p
It will be apparent from this statement that the fact of congestion was
in father's knowledge before his death, so that it has a special interest in
not being limited to the telepathic hypothesis for explanation.
(Note 9.)
New York, April 9th, 1899.
Concerning the reference in the third sitting to the promise to come
to me if possible after death, I find on my investigation into the letter
referred to that my impression about its contents was correct. The
XLI.] 357
Appendix I.
letter was dictated to my stepmother and written by her. It contains
absolutely no promise to communicate with me, but only thanks for my
solicitude for his welfare in this evident close of his life. But I wrote to my
stepmother, who knew the contents of my letter to him, and asked her the
following question : " Did father ever say anything about trying to reach me
or make his continued existence known to me after death ? " Her answer is :
" No, your father never said anything about trying to reach you, or making
his continued existence known to you after death." Whatever, therefore,
may be supposed to have been in his mind or intention, no promise was
actually made, certainly not to me, and there is no recollection of anything
like it by my stepmother. She adds : " I feel positive that he never thought
of such a thing."
[I repetted my inquiry personally of my stepmother, taking down her
statements at the time, to know if father ever mentioned to her his inten
tion to try to return to me if possible after death, and she replied as before
that he did not. I then asked her if she remembered my request of him
on his death-bed, and she replied that she did very well, and then volun
teered the further statement that she had asked him what I meant by it.
He answered in the sentence : "Oh, I don't know." This, my stepmother
continued, was "the expression he always used when he did not want to
tell what was on his mind." This fact renders possible the intention which
is definitely indicated in the promise to return. March 24th, 1900. —
J. H. H.]
(Note 10.)
In regard to the physical symptoms accompanying his death, I can only
add that every one of them is correct except that of the allusion to his eyes
and the trouble they gave him. This is not known to be false, and all that
my stepmother remembers about the incident is that he frequently com
plained of his eyes as his health failed. But this has no pertinence to
the question here at issue in this passage. The allusion to the trouble with
his head is much more relevant, but no one knows whether it was specially
troublesome during this last half-hour. There were several periods during
the latter stage of the illness in which he complained of pain in his
head, but as the voice had wholly disappeared during the last twenty-four
hours of his life, and as I recall no physical indications of suffering in the
head, I cannot corroborate any supposition interpreting the reference here
to such a pain connected with the throes of death. He showed a patience
in all his suffering that often made it difficult to know just what pains he
had unless they appeared to be connected with the spasms of the larynx.
For instance, it was long after one of the spells in which there was not the
slightest reason to expect any revival that he remarked that there was a
pain in his heel, and that he had felt it ever since this attack. It must have
been twenty-four hours afterward, and on examination blisters had been
formed on the heel. There is much reason to suppose from the complication
of difficulties that he did suffer from pain in the head. He had had a
stroke of apoplexy some twency years before, and we found that this critical
spell was accompanied with some symptoms of neural disturbance that
might give rise to trouble in the head.
358 [PART
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Note 11.)
In regard to the incident of my sister's lock of hair, I must say that I
had some difficulty in assuring myself of the correctness of the fact beyond
my own memory. But after correspondence with my sister, stepmother,
and an aunt in the State of Washington, who was the best witness to the
fact, I ascertained its truth. But as it can hardly be evidential in any case,
owing to the frequency of such incidents in the lives of friends, I need not
dwell upon it farther than to say that it is contained in a wreath made of
the hair of all the members of the family, living and dead, at the time of
my mother's death in 1869. The most striking part of this communication
from my sister was that which alludes to the photograph, and the relation
of her death to that of my brother Charles. The phrase " very young " is
specially interesting, as it implies a distance in time wffich corresponds to
that of her death. If she had lived she would now have been thirty-nine
or forty. We have the pictures of her and Charles yet with their obituary
notices, but I have not seen them for some years. The allusion to her
demise "just after Charles" is quite pertinent. She died just twelve days
after him with the same disease. I remember well that on the evening
after the burial of my brother, as we sat down to the table, my sister,
though without the slightest symptom as yet of illness, and standing
between the door and the table, said to my mother : " Mamma, I am going
to get sick and die, too " This remark always struck my mother as very
strange, and as my sister took sick the next day the statement and fulfil
ment of her prophecy have always remained in my memory. Hence this
allusion to the relation of her death to that of Charles at once appealed to
me with much force.
I deliberately referred to iny aunt here by name, because I thought my
sister would not remember her at all, and the claim that she does may be
interpreted as an error, though the cautious "I think" may atone for
this. Her trying to " reach us years ago " is not verifiable.
There is also an interesting incident in the spelling of her name. I do
not remember whether we called her Anna or Annie. My aunt tells me
that her name was Anna Laura. I accepted the name Annie at the sittings
as correct, and saw only one of the usual slips in the passage where Anna
was given and then corrected to Annie. My aunt wanted her called Annie
Laurie, but my mother would never listen to this and insisted on Anna
Laura. The confusion of the two at this point is not without its interest in
this connection.
(Note 12.)
The attempt to name the medicine here for which I had asked on the pre
vious day has some interest in connection with some later inquiries made for
another purpose. I wrote to the druggist in the town out West for a list of
the medicines father had bought for himself, and on the 27th of September,
1895, he seems to have bought some quinine. Of course I did not buy it
for him, and the consideration of the fact cannot havo any significance,
except to note that there is a spontaneous dissent from it when Dr. Hodg
son asked if that was the medicine meant by the word "quien" in the
XLI.] 359
Appendix I.
automatic writing. This shows that the dissent coincides with the incor
rectness of the supposition that I bought it for him. There is, however, in
the case an instance of the occasional automatisms that come at these
sittings and that are correct so far as they represent incidents in the life of
the alleged communicator, but incorrect in their apperceptive bearings,
though the correction of this case partly removes objection to it.
(Note 13.)
The reference to a " diary " also can have a meaning if we take my step
mother's statement as indicative of its correctness, and this confirms my
conjecture at the time of the sitting. I asked her if father ever kept a
diary, and her reply is as follows : " Your father never kept a diary since
our marriage. His custom has always been to keep a day-book, and note
down his receipts and expenditures. You have his two day-books in your
possession. I have an old one here that dates back of the one you have.
He often cut slips out of paper and kept them, but you got them in his old
pocket book along with his other papers." On examination of the day
book it has many of the features of a diary, certain statements, besides
accounts, being made in them for recollection.
(Note 14.)
The allusion to the brown handled knife is an incident of considerable
importance. I knew that I had no knowledge of such a thing, and the use
to which it was here said that it was put. I therefore wrote to my step
mother, brother and sister, to ask about it. I was careful not to tell them
what I had been told at the sittings, as I wished to avoid any suggestions
of the answer. I did not tell them anything whatever regarding the state
ments made to me at the sittings. It was later that I hinted at the nature
of my work and object in asking these questions, though it was surmised
that I was engaged at these experiments. But without explaining what I
had actually done I wrote, addressing the letter to my brother, and asked
the following question : " Did father own ' a little brown-handled knife in
Delphi that he kept in his vest pocket and then in his coat pocket ? ' I
want you, Henrietta, and mother [stepmother] at once to answer this ques
tion. Please to answer it if you can without questioning each other. Be
sure to follow instructions, and write me at once." The replies which I
received were as follows. My step-mother writes: "Now in reply to the
inquiries in Frank's letter I will say your father had a medium sized brown-
handled knife which he always carried in his pants pocket. I never
knew him to carry it in vest or coat pocket. I have his knife now." My
sister writes : " Papa had a brown-handled knife at Delphi, but it was not a
small one, and I never remember seeing him carry it any place except in his
pants pocket." My brother writing in regard to the same fact says :
"Father had a pocket-knife about four inches long with a dark cherry
handle, and another a little longer with a rough brown bone handle. But
he never carried a knife in his vest or coat pocket."
300 [PAHT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I then wrote to my stepmother to have the knife sent nie and it came.
It is the brown-handled one with the cherry handle, and is a smaller knife
than is usually owned by persons living as my father did. After he left the
farm there was no need for a larger knife. The brown bone-handled knife
which my brother mentions is not in existence now, or it cannot be found.
But I asked the farther question without suggesting why I wanted it
answered, and without telling the facts : " What did father use that little
knife with the brown bone handle for V I asked this question from
memory, thinking that it was the bone-handled one that was in mind
and not the smaller. My stepmother answers: "As to the use of the
pocket-knife, I cannot think of any special purpose he used it for, except
cutting his finger nails, and he liked to have me trim his toe nails often, as
he could not get down to it. He liked to watch little tinkering jobs about
the house that needed to be done." My brother answers: "Mother, I
think, wrote you that father used the little brown-handled knife for paring
his nails, or for general tinkering about the house."
It will be seen from this that the corroboration of the fact is practically
complete, save the statement about the place of carrying the knife. This
discrepancy might be easily explained, but, as we are dealing with an
evidential problem, the difficulty, if it be one, must not be slurred over.
Whatever this may be regarded, the coincidence has some value owing to the
precautions taken to prevent the answer from being suggested by my
question.
(Note 15.)
Since writing the above note I have inquired more carefully in regard to
the cap, because it has been alluded to twice since this sitting, and when I
was not present, and what truth there is in it can be ascertained in later
notes. [Cf. Note, p. 406.]
(Note 16.)
This incident about the strychnine has an interest which I did not surmise
at the sitting. I wrote to my stepmother, brother, and sister, asking
" whether father had any medicine given him by the doctor about the time
I sent him the Hyomei, and what it was 1 Was it strychnine ?" My step
mother's answer was : "Your father took medicine from Dr. Smith, of
Delphi, in the fall and early winter of '95, which I think probably had
strychnine in it, almost sure that it had. He only gave the prescription,
and I judged from that." My sister writes: "He was taking Peruna at
the time you sent hiin the Hyomei. I was at home then, and I remember
of hearing about him taking strychnine at some time or other. I don't know
who prescribed it, or just at what time he was taking it." My brother writes :
"There was probably strychnine in the medicine that father took when
treating with Dr. Smith, of Delphi, as a nerve tonic is usually prescribed in
such cases. But he stopped treating with Dr. Smith at least eight or nine
months before you sent him the inhaler."
It thus appears that he was taking strychnine without my knowledge,
and this is made especially certain from the fact that it occurred after I had
seen him in the winter of 1895, for the last time before his fatal illness.
Appendix I. 361
The mention of it seems to have been connected with my question about the
medicine two days before, which was partly answered in connection with the
mention of the Hyomei, as the letter "S" and the word "Serris," just
after the incident of the Hyomei, seem to be the anticipation of the strychnine,
which was interrupted by other incidents. This is a conjecture, however.
Assuming that it was intended to answer my inquiry the answer must be
regarded as false, because I did not get him any strychnine. But in spite of
this it turns out that he did use it, and if my question was understood to
inquire for the medicines he took as well as that I got for him it is a very
pertinent answer. At any rate it represents an incident outside my know
ledge, and not acquired by telepathy from me, supposing, of course, that
we give it any significance at all. [Cf. Note 23, p. 365.]
(Note 17.)
After the sitting and my note on the Swedenborg incident was written,
I sent to my stepmother to make inquiry in regard to its truth, asking
the following questions: (1)'-Did father ever talk with you about
Swedenborg 1" and (2) " Do you remember the long conversation we all had
about psychical research at the time I was in Indianapolis giving my lecture
on the subject, and do you remember whether father said anything about
Swedenborg in that talk ? " My stepmother s answer is : " He did talk
with me about Swendenborg after you had been there, merely answering my
questions about Swedenborg's belief. 1 remember the conversation on the
Sabbath day you were at our house in Delphi about psychical research, and
your father was the first to speak of Swedenborg. In answer to something
you said he replied : 'that was Swedenborg's belief.' I cannot remember
much of the conversation." The incident turns out thus to be true and
pertinent, though still amenable to the telepathic hypothesis from my
subliminal memory which was not clear enough at the sitting to be anything
more than a surmise on my part when mentioned. On the other hand,
the unity and interest of the fact in the light of what would be true in
case it was my father actually communicating is much greater on the
spiritistic theory than the telepathic. It is precisely what he would think
of on such an occasion, while I have never given Swedenborg anything
more than the most casual connection with the subject, though aware of
his belief and experiences from tradition.
Latest Notes.
This Section contains additional notes representing the results of
my latest inquiries.
(Note 18.)
New York, September 20tk, 1899.
In studying this sitting for a careful review of the facts, I discover
internal evidence that I appear to be communicating at this point with my
father. I had supposed from the name Charles that I was dealing with my
brother, but further and careful examination shows that this is not the best
362 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
interpretation of the passage. The key to this newer view is the statement :
"I have seen Annie and mother and Charles and Henry." This could
hardly be natural for my brother Charles. But this discrepancy could be
passed by were it not for the following incidents that completely tit father,
and do not fit my brother at all. (1) The third person and relation of time
expressed in the statement : " Yes, he did. Some time before. And when
I came he helped me." (Cf. p. 341.) (2) Also the allusion to his passing
out "suddenly at last." (3) The trouble with the head and heart. (Cf.
p. 327-8, Sitting for December 26th, 1898.) (4) The expression, " Give me
my hat," which was one used by my father, as remarked by my brother,
whenever he wanted to go to the door or out on an errand. (5) The mis
take of referring the ownership of the accordion to my brother George.
(Cf. incident of the guitar, p. 461.) (6) The phrase later indicating the
right fact if it was father and only a possible one if it was my brother,
namely, the statement : "I used to play on this."
Of course, I had no clue at the time for this interpretation, and only
later events suggest it. The name of my brother and the intimation of G. P.,
that it was " Charles" calling, the mention of the other calling for me not
being accompanied with the name or relationship, concealed this possible
view from me, so that it was most natural for mo at the time to suppose that
I should adjust my questions and interpretation to the supposition that it
was my brother. But close study of the passage shows that the presence of
the lady communicator made the confusion too great to get my correct
bearings, while her dismissal brings my brother in her place later when the
Communications become clear and intelligible. But in this confusion that
precedes the discovery of my indentity the incidents fit my father, and not
my brother, while the name of my brother is correct. In favour of my inter
pretation is the fact that there is no clear and unmistakable claim that the
incidents belong to my brother, natural as it would bo to suppose this con
nection from their relation to his name in the communications.—J. H. H.
(Note 19.)
New York, September 24</i, 1899.
In studying the passage in the second sitting, that of December 24th,
1898, in which the name " Robertson " occurs, 1 chanced to think that there
might be a meaning in this reference which had entirely escaped me.
On examination, therefore, I find that it haa a possible significance of some
interest. As my notes show, I had supposed that I was dealing only with
my brother Charles, and that the name " Robertson " was an attempt to
mention my brother Robert. The narrative of the record indicates this very
clearly. It also indicates my attempt to trick the communicator into the
belief that this brother was not living, but, as the record shows, I failed. It
is also evident that I did not at all understand the communications, and pos
sibly the discovery of this led to the disappearance of the real communicator
in favor of the continued conversation with my brother. However this may
be, it now seems probable to me that this is the first appearance of my "uncle
Charles," as he is connected with the mention of the name "Robertson" in
XLI.] 363
Appendix I.
the second sitting (p. 317). What it appears to be is a question to know
where "Robert's son" was. My uncle usually called my father "Robert,"
and if we suppose the same state of mind and desire to speak directly to me,
as in this second sitting, we have evidence to suppose also that we are here
dealing for the moment with my uncle. The broken syllables " Ell ... el
. . ." get a pertinent significance which I never suspected before. [Cf. p.
314.] They are probably attempts to give the name of his wife Eliza, with
which both father and my uncle later succeeded. There is one difficulty in this
interpretation, and this is the use of the feminine gender by my brother in
introducing him. I had supposed for a moment that the reference was to
my mother, but soon saw that this was false, though without reckoning
father into the account the statement that she was the last to " come here "
was true for the family necrology. But this same remark would apply
absolutely to my uncle, who was the last of the family connections to die.
Hence, supposing that my brother is here somewhat confused in details,
as I notice is the case with intermediaries (Cf. pp. 332, 100-108, 146-147),
we may put the other incidents down in favor of the hypothesis that I am
communicating with my uncle, and what appeared confusion before becomes
perfectly clear and intelligible.—J. H. H.
(Note 20.)
New York, July 10th, 1899.
In a conversation with my aunt Nannie, living in Philadelphia, just before
going West on the mission connected with these investigations, I learned a
fact of some interest in connection with the first sittings. I learned it with
out asking a question regarding the matter, but during conversation about
her sister's affairs, whose husband, my "uncle Charles," had died so sud
denly last fall, and who had appeared to communicate in those sittings. My
aunt remarked that her sister (Aunt Eliza) had suffered so much from dis
couragement and loneliness. The business was left in a terrible condition
by my uncle's unexpected death, and my aunt was always completely de
pendent upon him for the management of everything. She was moreover of
a very social nature and less self-sufficient than her sister Nannie, and when
my niece, who was boarding with her while going to the High School, went
home at the end of each week, my aunt suffered greatly from loneliness, and
complained of it to her sister. From worry with business and from this
loneliness they were much afraid at one time that she would not live. There
is then a coincidence between this state of mind and the remarks made by
the communicator, or communicators, in the sitting of December 24th, 1898.
It might be what a inediuinistic brain should concoct out of any similar
situation, and I do not refer to it as anything evidential, but only as an
interesting coincidence, consistent with the spiritistic theory, though not
sufficiently evidential of it to merit emphasis, especially as in the
event of its recognition we must suppose it to have been post-mortem
information. It does not bear upon personal identity in any case. But
it is coincidental with the actual condition of aunt's mind in a special way.
—J. H. H.
3G4 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Note 21.)
Augnst 5th, 1891).
This reference to a tire persisted in later sittings until I took special
pains to inquire further about this incident after I had actually given it up
as false, or a mere automatism. But its persistence on the part of the
communicator, on any theory, required that the investigation be pushed
further. I then inquired of my aunt again whether she remembered any
fire near the old home which gave father a fright, and put my question
also without intimating that the message located it in his early life. Her
spontaneous answer was : " I do not remember any tire that could give
him a fright. When he was a very young man a barn in the neighbourhood
was struck with lightning and burned, but I do not think it gave him a
fright." The incident is then so near right that father reports rightly a
fire that occurred in his early life, though there seems no reason to suppose
that it gave him a fright. But the chief interest on any theory, even that of
chance, is that the two references to a fire tit exactly with his experience
with his own barn. Are we to suppose here the same confusion as we found
in the case of the walking-sticks, and with the social incidents of two
brothers ? We know what a fright the tire mentioned in the sitting for
May 30th caused, and that it was connected with the expectation that it was
his barn, about which I know he was always anxious. I do not remember
ever hearing him speak of this earlier experience, but as I know his solicitude
about the barn built in my time, it is probable that I have heard him tell the
story of the barn struck by lightmng, so that I cannot say that such an
event would not be amenable to telepathy. But the real or apparent
confusion of two incidents that are known to have been a part of his
experience is a most interesting fact, all the more so that it seems to have
occurred more than once.—J. H. H.
(Note 22.)
New York, October 31tt, 1899.
This allusion to holding his hands over his breast has a possible meaning
if we assume that it is connected with an attempt to give the name of the
medicine that I had ask-d for just above. The reference to his heart and
eyes just before this is of course a continuance of the death-bed incidents.
The mention of the swelling at once called my attention to the possibility
that he was answering my earlier question with the catarrh in mind, and
hence, when the mention of holding his hands over his breast came, I thought
there was again a return to the incidents that I did not recognise at the time
as intended for the death scene. But as the name of the medicine for
which I had asked was closely associated in his mind with the diseaso I was
thinking of, and as the allusion to the swelling had such pertinence in
reference to his expressed wonder that it should be an accompaniment of
catarrh , it is pertinent to suppose that he was describing a method by which
he took that medicine, as it would be inevitably held in some such way in
the intervals of inhaling the vapour. 1 wrote to my stepmother to know
if she could remember his holding it with the two hands over his breast, and
she recalls no instance of this in particular, but it is more than a probable
XLI.] 365
Appendix I.
fact, as he did take the Hyoinei to bed with him, and it would be most
natural to hold it so in intervals when sitting in his rocking-chair. But
there is no way to either prove the fact or to be certain that my interpreta
tion is the true one, though I regard it as probable.— J. H. H.
(Note 23.)
Short Beach, Conn., July 25th, 1899.
I have been reading my father's letters to me during the last few years of
his life, and find an incident in one of them which has some interest in thin
connection, and which partly confirms my statements about this strychnine,
and partly serves to contradict the opinion that I have held about my
knowledge of his taking strychnine, though this knowledge was purely
subliminal. The note in the appendix to these sittings shows that I did not
purchase this strychnine, and now I find that a letter of April 27th, 1896,
mentions the fact that he was taking strychnine and arsenic at the same
time that he was taking the Hyomei. I had thought all along that I knew
nothing of the fact, and that the circumstance was not even in my sub
liminal, so completely had the fact been suppressed in my memory, as would
quite naturally be the case from its being a mere incident in a letter that I
had no special reason to remember. But here it turns up to be amenable to
the telepathic hypothesis for any one who pleases to apply it to the case.
The reference to arsenic will have an interest in another connection. But it
will be equally interesting to note that no other facts in this correspondence
are obtained, as perhaps should be the case if telepathy is to be the
explanation. But I am less anxious to remove telepathy from the explana
tion than I am to show documentary evidence from the pen of my father
himself of the fact that he was taking strychnine at the time he was taking
the Hyomei.—J. H. H. ♦
(Note 24.)
This response to my statement is a most pertinent one. I had intimated
my reason for not asking questions, and here, after mentioning our talk on
Swedenborg, there is the perfectly correct recollection that I had discussed
the difficulties of any such communications. That it was unlike me not to
talk freely with my father was true, and both the appreciation of my position
and the recognition of the problem as I saw it in our talk, put together
here in the natural synthetic action of independent intelligence is very
interesting. It is not like the process of telepathy as we ordinarily conceive
it.—J. H. H.
(Note 25.)
April 10th, 1901.
While working on the resume' of these four sittings I observed that there
might be a connection between the names " Mannie," "Nani," " Mnni,"
and "Ani" in this general passage, and the later references which turned
out to be regarding my stepmother, whose name was Maggie (Cf. Note
p. 342). The internal evidence of this is the name "Mannie" and the
special pertinence of certain statements with reference to my stepmother.
366 [part
J. H. Hyslol), Ph.D.
A further and perhaps strong piece of evidence for this interpretation
of this reference is the doubt entertained about his own answer, which
was, of course, called out by my denial that " Nani " had them. This I
denied, of course, because I thought at the time that he had his sister
Nannie in mind. As he died at the home of my aunt Eliza, and did leave
his glasses there, and as there was ample reason for his supposing that I
was confused in regard to his meaning, the complex situation involving an
attempt to indicate both where he left them and leith whom he left them was
calculated both to create confusion and to cause error. From my point of
view there was no error except in the mention of his sister, but assuming
that it was my stepmother that he had in mind, as the previous use of
the name Mannie (p. 342), and later references under the name " Nannie,"
without the appendage of sister or aunt, justify me in supposing, to say
nothing of the present evidences, the whole message becomes perfectly
intelligible, slight confusion and all.
If I could suppose that my question asking who were present at the
conversation on spirit return was understood there would be clearer evidence
that " Mannie " was meant for " Maggie." But it is quite apparent from
the content of the reply, especially in the reference to "sister," to say
nothing of Rector's direct statement, that it was not understood. The
whole passage therefore seems to be a connected one. It would appear
from the allusion to the spectacles that my father's mind was turned in the
direction of events and persons present at the time of his death. Possibly
the manner of his reference to the two aunts is corroborative of this suppo
sition. All the facts are consistent with it if they do not prove it.
Now my stepmother was present at the conversation on spirit return
that I had in mind when I put my question, and she was also present at
father's death. It was therefore relevant that she should be mentioned in
either case. My two aunts were present only at father's death. Assuming,
then, that my question was misunderstood and that it suggested to my
father his "promise" to return after it was all over, and that this, with
my statement that he had not mentioned all the names desired, had sug
gested the persons present during his last illness, we should have a perfectly
intelligible passage throughout. The "Nan" might be supposed to stand for
my aunt Nannie, and the "Mannie" and "Mnni" for "Maggie," while
the name of Eliza is clear. In the light of the latter identification of the
names of my aunt and my stepmother the confusion of them here is intelli
gible (Cf. pp. 69, 406). This interpretation of the passage gives a clearly
possible meaning to the statement that I was in New York when the con
versation about spirit return took place. This was false in relation to my
question, but I was in New York when I wrote the letter asking father to
come to me after it was all over. The note in the body of the detailed
record shows the special evidence that my stepmother is included in the
intended reference of my father (p. 342). The natural association of these
three names is also illustrated in the mention of them together at the close
of the sitting of June 8th (p. 496).—J. H. H.
XLI.] 367
Appendix II.
APPENDIX II.
This Appendix contains the records of five sittings—February 7th,
8th, 16th, 20th, 22nd, 1899—held by Dr. Hodgson on my behalf,
together with contemporary notes. In sending me the record of the
first of these sittings, Dr. Hodgson wrote on February 7th, 1899 :
" You had better make such notes as you wish, so that they can be
embodied in the type-written copies as before. But do not return
them at present or tell me anything about them. Wait till I have
finished the series on your behalf." I did as he requested.
Between my sitting on December 27th and the first of the series
dealt with in this appendix, there were various references to myself
and my father at sittings held by Dr. Hodgson for other purposes. Dr.
Hodgson gives these as follows :—
[Rector writing. Sitter R. H.]
December 29th, 1898.
* * * We are desirous as soon as it can be made convenient for thee
to give us some articles belonging to Mr. Hyslop to bring him to thee clearly.
(Yes. His son will send me his father's diary if he can obtain it.) [Cross in
air.] It can be and we will see that he receives it for us to assist him in
clearing his thoughts. (If some other book which he has used were obtained
it perhaps would serve the purpose.) Yes, either this or the one he has in
mind, but vaguely as yet. We await this. (I understand.) * * * Now,
then, we have arranged all for the coming few days, and we would be with
thee a great deal in thine own room. We desire also to make ourselves and
our presence known to thy friend H., and besides this, we would keep in
touch with * * *
January 18th, 1899.
* * * (Yes, very good. Then our friend Hyslop is anxious to see you
many more times if you think that is desirable. He would like to come
when you arrange, perhaps after the ten times friend is finished with one
way or another, and have himself as many sittings as you can arrange for.)
This is one thing to which we would especially give attention, and to
which we have vaguely heretofore given reference. (Excuse me a moment.)
[I shut hot-air register.]
Viz., things of importance to thee as well as to us. We will after we have
arranged . . .
[to Sp.] Pardon . . . yes ... + ... + .. [Cross in air.] for
one or two days after we have finished with thy ten times friend, give
thee full notice of our arrangements for him, U D, (Yes, very
good. ■***)* + *
(Shall I give one or two brief messages ?) Yet.
368 [part
J. H. Eyslop, Ph.J).
(Hyslop sent his love to his father and wished to say that his father was.
right about Swedenborg,—what he said.) Well. * * * (After the ten
times friend, you will arrange with me about Hyslop.) + Yes,
friend. ***■(*#* perhaps after the ten times friend I could have
several days not only for myself, but perhaps also one or two on behalf of
Hyslop before he comes again himself. Then I should have to come with
him, as he cannot read the writing well,—and after * * * ) + We will
arrange for thee as soon after thy ten, etc., friend . . [as possible] for
(I understand) . . the two days also for two or three for Hyslop and then
go on with our ladies, after which we will arrange for Hyslop personally,
then go on with * * *
January 2oth, 1899.
[Mrs. P.'s sublim. II. as she goes into trance, says " preparing for
Hyslop."]
* * * We have a great and good work to do with this dear spirit
Hyslop, who is awakening [not read at once] to the realisation . .
("anchoring " ?) He says awakening . . . that he am keep his pro
mises to his son on thy side of life. A eery high and intelligent spirit is he,
and no barrier between them—viz., himself and son. He is being helped by
us, and will from time to time reach through the veil, and speak familiarly
with " James." (Yes, very good.) +■ (I am very pleased.) We are still de
sirous of meeting him often after the conditions are arranged to our satisfac
tion. * * * (Then perhaps I had better come myself the first day after)
[the Sabbath], We say it friend. Yes. We have much to do. And we
must do part ere ire meet Hi/dop. * * *
January 30th, 1899.
We will, if convenient for thy friend Hyslop, arrange for him, or for thee
two days, and thereafter him [pause] four days. [Not understood at first. I
supposed they were correcting two days to four days, and asked if they
meant four days for me.] No for him, four days for him.
[Re-reading it after the sitting, I think Imperator meant to suggest two
days for myself personally, and four days for me on account of Hyslop. I
supposed at the time that only the latter was referred to.]
(Do you mean for him personally !) Yes, or for thee to meet him. [I
was about to speak.] But listen, friend. We say if convenient for him we
will meet him four days, if not we will meet thee for him.
I find it a little difficult for me to get all words to thee whilst He is
speaking. (Yes. That's all right, Rector. Now . . . )
Canst thou not let us know at this point whether he can meet us or thee
. either him or thee, as we desire to prepare his father and friends
for this, we care not which, of thee (" or him"). [Assent.] (Yes. It will
be most convenient that I should have the days on his behalf in his
absence.)
Yes. Well, friend, then we would have thee arrange at once for as many
articles. . . . [not read] articles he says .' . we now give mention
to the number . . . three. We would like some articles if possible worn
by his father when in the body, also some one object handled a good deal by
him. (Yes. I have received several books which he used much or at least
one of which I think he handled much.)
XLI.] 369
Appendix II.
Viz. the Diary. (I don't think it is the Diary.)
Well, it must be something handled quite at much. (I will . . )
We are desirous of keeping him as clear as 1xissible, friend. (Yes. I
will write for the best obtainable articles in addition to the books I have.)
Yes. A pen or pencil for instance, or knife, any object handled much.
U D. (Yes. I understand exactly.)
Well, then, friend, if thou dost U D about the days all is well. (Yes.
Which days after the Sabbath will you devote to Hyslop 1)
Four. (All . . . )
All but two. We will have no break between.
(Yes. I will come first, second, third, and fourth after Sabbath. Is that
right ?)
It is. (Good.)
And all will be well.
Dr. Hodgson further informs me that the omissions indicated by
asterisks in the records which follow have no relevance to my con
cerns, and in part are private, and in part deal with other communi
cators or sitters.—J. H. Hysi.op.
Record of Sitting, Februani 7th, 1899.
R. H.
[Mrs. P. talking about ordinary matters, when without a break almost.]
Do you know sometimes lately, it seems as if my head was full of
bells. . . .
I want to go into ... I want to go into the other place .
I don't like to stay here.
[Rector writes.]
[Cross in air.] Rector (Good morning) HAIL (Hail, Imperator.)
Friend, we desire to speak with thee especially. Whilst we are speaking thy
friend's father will be in good hands and in preparation for this meeting.
(Yes.)
We wish that we might meet Mrs. [Z.] for the benefit of her little girl,
as it will doubtless be our last meeting for some weeks, and perhaps many.
(Yes.)
The child is now in our hands, and under our guidance, and we desire to
develop the highest nature . . nature . . as we have already begun
with this . . this. After our next meeting we will be better able to
determine the clay, as we see her condition meanwhile. U D. She hath
weakness in the so-called lungs which we are . . . restoring to . . .
we . . a more natural condition . . . ("we are restoring a more
natural condition ? ")
I did not get His exact words, but very nearly, friend. R. (All right.)
We do desire to give at least four meetings for Hyslop's father soon
. . at least.
We can meet thee after this day on the morrow. (Yes.)
And we will direct thee then as to our arrangements. +
2 B
370 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Yes. There is another matter, or rather, there are two inquiries which
I have received from friends to put. Shall I put these now for you to reply
to-morrow, or shall I leave them entirely till to-morrow ? One concerns
Mrs. M. and the other is to Mr. W.)
Yes. Kindly give them now for His ans. to-morrow. R.
(Yes. Mrs. M. says : "Ask if they have any advice or counsel for me in
my affairs at the present time.") [Cross in air.]
Received, ans. on the morrow. +
(Now Mrs. W. !) Yes, friend.
(This is to her husband.) [R. H. reads over Mrs. W.'s letter.]
*****
We may ans. to this that he, Mr. W., has long been seeking an [sub
stituted for the first written] opportunity to send some message to her, as he
fully realises all she is and has been passing through . . she. Not once
only, but many times he has begged to us I. S. D. and R. to allow him at
the first opportunity to speak and free his mind, which we have promised to
do. But we cannot do so for a few days. It will, however, be as we would
have it be. + { R }.
We will not be able to ans. further on this subject on the morrow, but
later.
(Very good. I understand.)
We are doing every thing that is possible to benefit all worthy .
worthy persons on thy side, and thereby give relief to those here on our
side. We saw in Mr. D. . . thereby [not read in previous sentence]
. . for instance, great need for our return alone with him or to him.
Everything we may do will surely be well. [Cross in air.]
Now, friend, if thou hast no further questions we will bring Mr. Hyslop
to thee now. (Very good.)
[To Sp.] No he is not . . . but it is his friend . . . very well.
No, not James, but Hodgson. Yes . . come.
[R. H. gets package A out of bag and begins to undo it.]
Give it me friend. R. (One moment, Rector.)
[R. H. undoes package. Meanwhile hand apparently attends to Sp.]
Be patient kindly [to Sp.].
[Meanwhile R. H. undoes the various wrappings, and finally drops gently
a metal box on the table from the last wrapping. Hand touches it and
moves it forward a little.]
Yes, friend, I am pleased to meet you. I wish to speak to James, but I
U D he is not here, but sends you in his place. (Yes.) Am I right ! (Yes,
Mr. Hyslop, quite right. I am here in behalf of your son James, whom I
know well.)
I am very pleased to know you, and I am desirous, as doubtless you
know, to reach him in every possible way. (Yes, I understand well.)
I am thinking at the moment of what I referred to concerning Emanuel
Swedenborg [Swedenborg not read at first]. Borge [?] E sounds like
Emanuel Swedenborg [badly written and not read.]
(Rector, please when you get it as clear as possible, put it in capitals.)
Yes, thanks, I will. Emanuel S W.
XLI.] 371
Appendix II.
[As soon as the S was written I thought of Swedenborg, and on looking
at the previous writing saw that this was obviously intended.]
(Oh, I think I know, Swedenborg.) [Assent with emphasis]
[This reference to Swedenborg again is interesting as showing the con
dition of mind in which my failure to remember the incident distinctly on
December 27th of the year just passed left the communicator. There is
evidently here some fear that the fact was not clear to my mind, as it was not
my note making that fact evident. But correspondence with my mother
(stepmother) shows that I did have such a conversation, and after learning
the fact I sent word to Dr. Hodgson to tell my father what is here said to
him. It is quite as interesting to remark the promptness with which it is
dropped when he is told of the discovery and admission of my mistake.—
J. H. II.] [Cf. p. 341.]
I am glad to know that he U D my meaning. (Yes.)
[At sitting of January 18th, 1809, R. H. present, occurred: " (Hyslop
sent his love to his father and wished to say that his father was right about
Swedenborg—what he said.) Well." See sitting where Professor Hyslop
was present, December 27th, 1898, p. 341.]
Yes, now I wish to tell him about another subject.
[Hand feels box] First, what message does he send me !
(He told me some time ago to give you his love, and he has written two
questions which I have here, but perhaps . . . ) [dissent, as though to
suggest better not give them then, as I did not intend to unless desired.
Hand was apparently about to write, but did not, and took up listening
position again.] (it might be well for you to tell me first what you have on
your mind !)
Yes, I shall be glad to do so. I am thinking of the time some years ago
when I went into the mountains for a change with him, and the trip we had
to the lake after we left the camp. Ask him if he remembers this.
[Hand lifts box up as if to show it clearly to Sp.]
And I have often thought of this.
[Father never went into the mountains with me, nor to the lake. Also
the allusion to his doing this after leaving "the camp" has no meaning
whatever. I do not know that he ever saw any mountains except the
Alleghenies which he probably saw in 1876 when he went to the Centennial
at Philadelphia. It would require a great deal of twisting and forced inter
pretation to discover any truth in the statements for any one in the acquaint
ance of my father, even if it could be done in any way at all. It might
suggest something to others, but it suggests only what is false to me.—
J. H. H.] [See Note 26, p. 408.]
On one trip out West we or I was caught in an accident and I was badly
shaken up in consequence.
[Hand feels box, holds it up, trembling.]
I received a nervous shock from which I never fully recovered. This and
a fire which took place are uppermost in my thoughts. Many little things
are often in my mind, but I think more frequently of the serious ones, which
are to be noted among my earthly experiences. [The first word of foregoing
sentence read by me as very.] Many little ones he said. (Oh yes, "Many
little things.")
2 B 2
372 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I have now completely recovered from this and I can walk about as well as
ever I could. He may be glad to know this. (Yes, I will send it all to him.)
I am a little distance from you, my friend, but I hope to come nearer soon.
[Hand frequently holds box up.]
I often think of the long talks we used to have during my last years in
earth life of the possibilities of communication with each other. [(y.
pp. 29-34.] I hear James often speaking to me. I hear him calling as
it were for me to be near him. I am now thinking again of the accident.
We were delayed several days if I remember rightly and I think I do.
I think we lost our . . lost . . forward cars . . cars
forward . . and engine so-called [ewjine not read]. He says E N G I N E.
Did they not go through the bridge, James . . . Yes.
Friend, thou wilt have to wait a moment for him now. (Yes.) I have
never seen a spirit more desirous of being clear and correct than he. We
will keep him near, friend.
Ask him to recall all about this, friend, when he returns {R} (About
which, Rector !) his experiences . . his + wishes thee to do so. (In
connection with this accident you mean !) In any thing, yes this in particular.
(Yes, I will.) And the fire of which he is thinking. He is returning.
Yes, friend, I here ("I have "). I am here.
(Mr. . . .) but I cannot remain long at a time just now.
(I understand. I am sure that James will be very pleased for you to
remember all you can about your experiences in connection with this accident
or the tire.)
Yes, well then I may as well tell you all I can remember. I remember it
seemed to be in the night and we were going at quite a rapid rate when a
sudden jerk and crash aroused me, only to find we were in a . . ,
dilapidated state . . . [Jerk awl crash not read at first.] he says jerk
[sentence read through.] Yes, quite right.
Yes. Yes that is, the rails, bridge, cars and all . . Bridge. I have
to catch it as best I can, friend (Yes. I understand.) otherwise I could not
get it all for thee.
[This incident about the railroad accident is much like that about the trip to
the mountains, except that it may have some possibilities in it. As it stands
it has no definite meaning to me. I recall definitely no such accident as is here
described. The allusion to its having occurred when we or he made a trip
out West takes it outside my memory. Father owned some land in Illinois
and used to take trips out there to look after it. But I never heard of any
accidents into which he got on any of those tiips. In 18W1, when I was only
seven years old, I went with him, my mother, my sister Anna, and an aunt on
one of these trips, but I remember no serious accidents on it. If I remember
correctly, we were delayed at Kokomo, Indiana, for some reason, though I do
not recall whether there was a delay on account of an accident, or whether
my memory of the place is due wholly to its singular name. As I write,
however, I recall that we stopped for dinner, and I have always remembered
the peculiar name as a matter of childish interest, along with many incidents
of that trip, which the nature of this discussion does not at present require
me to mention. I know of two accidents that occurred in Chicago on this
trip. But they were not connected with any railways, nor with anything
XLl.] 373
Appendix II.
that would suggest them. I have only the vaguest impression that on this
trip there was something that might be construed as an accident, but I am
confident that it could not be described in such strong terms as are used
here. The allusion to the tire is as indefinite as the accident, and is evidently
an attempt to reopen the incident that was not made clear to me in the
December sittings. The only thing that has any apparent connection with
the real life of my father in this narration is the allusion to his recovery of
his ability to walk, and the expression of his belief that I should be glad to
know it. There is no reason from its connection to construe it as coming
from him, but it was a fact that for fifteen years he had been unable to walk
without a cane or a crutch. But if there is any truth in the whole incident
it has no connection with my experience. —J. H. H.]
Give me his book kindly . . . or if thou canst give me his .
(Rector, this is all I have with me) Give him his . . Yes glasses.
(Does he remember this !) [box]
Yes, friend, very well. He had it for years.
(Perhaps he would like to tell me about it.)
Yes, but there is very little to tell about this, he says, only it is his
glasses case and was in the family for years. (Did he call it his glasses
case ?) [spectic apparently superposed on yeart] He says spectacle [spectical].
(Did he call it his spectacle case ?) Yes. (I want to get it just right if
possible.)
I am quite sure of what I am saying to you, my friend. I think Nannie
will remember this also very well. You might speak to her about it, or ask
James to do so. (Yes, I will.)
I shall be better able to recall everything in time if you will be kind
enough to let me speak occasionally. I am more anxious than I can tell you
to explain every thing.
[This language about the spectacle case has some pertinence. For some
years after he began to wear glasses, he called them spectacles. Later he
began to call them glasses, but he always, in my recollection, called the case
his " spectacle case," as corrected here. Of course I had seen very little of
him after 1882, except in vacations, and then after 1885 only once until 1892,
again in 1894, and last when he died in 1896. But I remember what he
called both his glasses and the case. No special evidential value can be put
upon the fact here, because there is hardly any choice for a speaker on this
matter, as the usage here adopted would probably be universal. But it
deserves remark as a fact that the usage here conforms to the fact of my
father's usage when living, and that there was a change of usage for the
term glasses. This is the reason that I asked in the sitting for the 27th of
December last what glasses he meant when he alluded to them. I wished
then to see if he would resort to his regular usage in regard to them.
" Nannie " is probably Rector's mistake for Maggie, the name of my step
mother.—J. H. H.] [Cf. pp. 342, 366.]
(Yes, have you . . ) and . . [Hand had started to write, then
listens.] (I was going to ask if you had finished about the fire.)
Yes, for now. I will think it over and tell you more about it, as I am to
meet you to-morrow, as we used to say. (Yes.)
I shall be glad to do so.
374 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I begin to see what James is wishing me to do.
(I will explain further. You understand, Mr. Hyslop, that we do not see
you and we do not hear you.) Is it so? (There is a lady in our material
world who has this light, and she goes into a trance. You must remember
talking of trance.)
I do, I do. Yes, quite. This is quite clear . . . then (Well) Go on.
(Well, this lady goes into trance, and her head is resting on cushions just
as if she was asleep in the ordinary way.)
(Then, her hand and arm rest on a table, convenient for writing upon.)
Yes.
(Now our kind friend and helper Rector [hand bows] can use this arm
and hand of the lady in trance and make it write just as you used to write
yourself.)
Indeed. Then, well then w hat I say is written out for you, is it ?
(Yes, exactly. You talk in your way to Rector. Rector talks to me
through this machine, that is, the arm and hand are like a machine.)
Oh yes, I begin to see, but I can see Rector and hear him speak to me.
I hear his question perfectly, and I see him clearly.
Friend, he has his head near . . head . . head.
(Well, now, you see that all that ww can see, because we are still in the
material world, all we can tell is, that the hand of this lady in trance writes
on the ]Kiper and says that it is so and so using it from the spirit world.)
Oh yes, I see.
(Well now, if James had said to you when you were in the body, "Come
with me and see a lady in trance. Her hand is controlled by a spirit," yovi
probably would not have believed it.)
No, probably not.
(And if James had passed out of the body and you were left behind, and
if I came to you and said " Your son James wishes to see you and t«lk to
you," and if I prevailed upon you to come here, we will suppose, and you
were in the body with me and James was where you are, talking to Rector—
what do you think James would try to remind you of !)
Why everything that we used to do together of course, friend,
(Yes, now . . . )
or in other words all. I say all, about his earthly experiences, because
he would like me to make sure it was he.
(Exactly. Now that is just what he wants. He wants . . )
Well, it is just what he will get, then, because I know perfectly well who
and what I am and I know what would please my son James, and I will do
all in my power to prove that I am his father. U D.
(Yes, now, I shall be delighted to meet you to-morrow. The time is
nearly gone now for us. But if you think over what I have told you about
the way it appears to us—that is, a lady in trance writing with her hand,
while the rest of her body is, as it were, asleep, that is, trance—you will see
how important it is for you to tell as many private personal incidents and
curious things about your personal friends and so on that nobody else
could.)
Friend, we will explain all this in detail to him ( a part we may say is
well V D by him now, [ [ ] and we feel satisfied that although he may not
XLI.] 375
Appendix II.
say as much in some ways as other spirits might, yet what he does say
. . what he does say . . will be correct. +
(Very good. That's the important thing after all.)
Yes, we know full well, friend, and we will take care that all will be well.
Good day, friend. I will think it over.
(Good day ; and I shall look forward to hearing from you again to
morrow. It will not be possible for me to get a fresh message for you from
James, because you remember this is Boston, and James lives across the
country.)
Yes. New York. (Yes, New York.) I remember well.
[The allusion to my being in New York, though correct, could hardly be
of much evidential value, even if, in my question about the medicine (p.
330), I had not used the name of New York.—J. H. H.]
(But I will tell him all in due time.) And I you, friend. (Well, thank
you very much.)
[Box held up trembling.]
Friend, the light is going out with us, (Yes.) and ere we depart we bid
thee farewell. (Is there anything I can do further to help ?) No, all is well.
May God in His tenderest Mercy lead thee into light and joy, and may His
blessings rest on thee + { R.}
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
That's the . . that's your world and this is ours.
I saw you take it a . . I saw . . I want you to . . . turn
the dark * * * turn the dark board away, I don't like to look at it.
You see Rector turns round a dark board and says that's your world,—
and he turns round the other side and that's light and he says that's his world.
The whole world is black, but the light bodies can come into it. * * *
Record of Sitting, Februan/ 8th, 1899.
R. H.
In going off, Mrs. P.'s left hand points out forward, then makes a cross
in air ; then her lips move quietly as though she was repeating words, but
no sound was audible.
[Imperator writes.]
[I see from the more gentle movements of the hand, and the quieter
making of cross in air, that Imperator has taken the hand, and give
stylographic pen.]
HAIL (Hail, Imperator.) [I spoke in a low voice, and perhaps my
greeting was not heard, as the Hail was repeated.] HAIL. (Hail.) +
In this light we greet thee and bestow God's blessings upon thee.
Friend, thou art with us and we are with thee.
God's tenderest care will protect thee, no [not read] . .
Evil enter not where thou art
He hath said I am the father . . Father, the . . life . . the
and let my light shine forth in thee.
Holy Father, we are with thee in all thy ways [ ? ], and to thee we
come in all things. We ask thee to give us thy tender love and care.
376 [part
H. Hyslqt, Ph.D.
Bestow thy blessings upon this thy fellow creature, and * * * instruct
him that [!] . . this thy fellow ere . . help him to be all that thou
dost ask . . him . . Teach him to walk in the path of righteousness and
truth. He needs thy loving care. Teach him in all things to do thy holy
will. Teach him to do thy holy will, teach him . . and we leave all
else in thy hands. Without thy care we are indeed bereft. Watch [ 1]
over and guide his footsteps and lead him [!] lead him into . . and
lead him into light . . lead . . lead him into truth and light.
Father, we beseech thee to so open the blinded [?] eyes of mortals
that they may know more of thee and thy tender love . . love .
and care.
We have now restored the light . . we have . . and we thank
thee, oh Father, for thy help.
Friend, if thou art perplexed or troubled, come to us, and [we] will right
all. (Amen.)
In His name we act for thee . . act.
May all good and deserving mortals find . . worthy . . worthy
deserving . . seek and find God.
[Repetitions occasionally necessary owing to several instances when the
ink did not flow and frequently to my inability to decipher. Here was
originally written " May all good and deserving mortals find." I couldn't
read after "good and," when "worthy worthy deserving" were written,
followed by " seek and find God."]
We depart, leaving thee now in His . . His hands and under the
guidance . . under the guidance . . of [read at sitting as " under His
guidance "] . . with . . His messengers. I. S. D. and he who * *
[ ?] all things well, Rector [ ?] [Couldn't read.]
* * [ ! ] well . . well what . . what . . what God desires
him to do. Rector.
[After my reading this last sentence.]
Yes, friend. We [ ? he] will be near thee throughout. I go now and
leave thee with Rector. Peace he with thee. (Amen.) + I. S. D.
[Rector writes.]
Rector : Good morrow friend. (Good morning.)
Enter Doctor for a moment only. [Not read at sitting. This writing
dashed off very rapidly.]
Conditions infinitely better.
[Disturbance in hand.]
[Doctor writes.]
Doctor. Good morning. I am Doctor.
(Oh, good morning, Doctor. Very glad to meet you again.)
I am still with you. (I am very pleased.)
No friend cares more for all [ i ] your interests [than I do. I will help
you throughout. (Thank you very much.)
Although silent in speech I am with you in thought . . silent .
Silent.
We now bring your friend and well wisher. Adieu.
Call for me whenever you wish me.
XLI.] 377
Appendix II.
(Yes. I shall always be very pleased for your help. I have often thought
that you have been here helping or with ine sometimes when I have not been
here.)
True indeed, quite true, I am often with you, and I am present although
I do not speak directly to you.
I am your friend and helper in all things, and when you are absent from
the light I am often guiding and helping you. Will continue to do so.
Farewell.
(Farewell, Doctor, for the present. Thank you.)
[Rector writes.]
Returned. Rector. (Yes.) With the direct answers to any [my ?]
questions and to help Mr. Hyslop to come closer. (Good.)
I . . . (Shall I present articles ?) [Assent. Cross in air.]
Yes kindly. I am very near thee, friend.
(I am very glad.) (There is this.) [presenting box used yesterday.]
[I also opened package C. and left it opened on thxir behind me, seeing that
it contained a book, knife, and spectacle case.]
+ wishes me to say that it will be impossible for h . . Him to answer
for Mr. W. this day, as it will necessitate our using too much light for him,
and we must give it for this kind gentleman, viz., Mr. Hyslop. (Yes, I
understand.) He will ans. for W. later. (I understand.)
Good morning, James. I am glad to be here again. I am your father
still who is trying to help you tind me. I recall quite vividly some few
recollections which I think will interest you somewhat. I remember some
years ago of sending . . sending George some of the photos taken of
the Library [not read] . . wait a . . Library, and he said he would
return copies after he had finished them . . ("finished"?) finished
them . . finished, he repeats.
[This allusion to his "library" had no meaning to me, as I never knew
him to call any room a library. He had no such room in his house. But I
wrote to my stepmother in regard to this and several other matters in this
sitting, and the reply is that father "never called " the sitting room, which
also contained what books he owned, his library. Besides, he never had any
photos of it taken and sent no such articles to my brother George. This
incident is therefore totally false. It has an interest, nevertheless, under
the telepathic hypothesis, if that must be invoked to explain the true
incidents in the various sittings. The term library describes what I have
in my house, though I never had any photo of it taken, and we might sup
pose that the telepathic acquisition of what pertained to my father might be
mixed up with ideas taken from my mind about my library. I do not attach
any weight to tins supposition in the case of this incident alone, but only in
view of the resort to telepathy at all for other facts, when the falsity of this
incident considered in relation to my father can he partly accounted for by
supposing some telepathic " fishing" amid the ideas of my own mind. The
applicability of " library " to my own mind is, of course, the only reason for
such a suggestion, though in detail it is as false regarding myself as it is
regarding any experience of father's. The only escape of the spiritistic
theory on this and some similar and later incidents is that the discarnate
378 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Hpirit is out of his right mind, or that there is an intermediary present who
interprets a reference to the room where he kept his books, and that he
would call a "sitting room," as "library."—J. H. H.] [I have since
ascertained that my father sent a photo of himself and my mother to my
brother George, but the language here does not fit the fact as known.
(May 21st, 1900.) J. H. H.]
I also rem . recall the disturbance and trouble I had with one of
my eyes, the left one. Do you not remember this, and the little so-called
. . What . . . P . . A . . yes, I hear. Pad. Pad. I had a
peculiar mark, which you will recall, at the back of the ears [ear ?]
Tell me, friend, that I may show it to him.
[The allusion both to the difficulty with the left eye and to the mark
behind the ear is, as far as I and my stepmother know, entirely false. We
never knew of any trouble with either of them.—J.H.H.] [See Note 27, p. 409.]
(Some more articles. Rector ?)
[Hand lifts box and still holding box, touches with fingers a spot behind
my left ear just below mastoid process.] (Here ?) Yes.
Yes. Give me one. [In reply to question above about more articles.]
(I think there are some more inside this [box]. Can you ask Mr. Hyslop
if he can tell what they are inside before I open.) [Pause.]
He is saying something. Wait until I hear it clearly.
[Pause.] This I think is the one I used to put my Pen ho [?] . . .
no not iien, Paper cutter . . P . . sounds like in .
[As a matter of fact I had kept father's pen in this spectacle case ever
since his death, and it was there in the case when thus shown to Mrs. P. But,
as indicated by Dr. Hodgson, it had not yet been opened. The allusion to a
paper cutter I thought nonsense, as I had never known father to have a
paper cutter. He never needed one for the purpose of cutting the leaves of
new books, as I suppose he had not bought any books that would need
cutting of the leaves for forty years, and the newspapers he took needed no
such instrument. Hence I treated the reference here as nonsense. But I
took no risks in the matter, and asked my stepmother whether father ever
owned such an article, and if so, whether he ever put it in his spectacle case,
expecting to find my suspicion confirmed. Her reply is that he did have a
paper cutter, a wooden one made by my brother, for opening letters, but
that he carried it in his vest pocket. I believe also that he never kept his
pen in this case. The later statements seem much clearer on this matter.—
J. H. H.] [Cf. Note 34, p. 414]
Perhaps you will recall my asking for my knife . . recall. [Cf. p. 336.]
(Yes.)
I think, friend, he is quite ready. [Cross in air.] Yes.
[The allusion to his knife here shows a memory of what had been asked
for at an earlier sitting as already discussed, and indicates the same
personality as then on any theory of the case, as also do many other
incidents.—J. H. H.]
(Does he wish to say anything about the present contents of this box)
[Pause.] (before I open it ?) Only concerning his spectacles, that is all. I
have to say ... let me go a minute and return. I am very blind and
I begin to feel strange.
XLI.] 379
Appendix II.
[The box did contain his spectacles as well as his pen. —J. H. H.]
(Yes, go away and come back.)
We like him very well. He seems a most intelligent fellow, but finds it
difficult for him to remain long at a time. In time he will, however, come
very near, be quite clear, and do a great [work] for thee, friend.
Here I am. Yes, I see, you are not really James, but his friend. Glad
I am to know you. (I am very glad.)
Yes, I remember I used to have this little case on my desk a great deal.
Yes. And I am sure I used to place my spectacles in it. Yes, and some
time my paper-cutter.
Yes, I am sure he is right.
[The statement about the spectacles is correct, but that about the paper-
cutter is false as far as can be ascertained.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, well . . ) He seems to know. (Anything else about what he
used to do with it.) No, no he says nothing.
(Well, Mr. Hyslop. Can you see what is now in it ?)
Looks like my glasses. Yes.
(Don't bother about trying to see what is actually now in the box, but if
you are able to tell what exactly is in it, of course I shall be glad.)
Well, will you not let me look and think more about it and make quite
sure of it ?
(Why this . . . there is no hurry, and I would much rather you
should take all the time you want and be quite calm and peaceful, and just
think quietly how you can best give good tests to James.)
Yes, very well, then. Until I become accustomed to this way of speak
ing, understand the light that looks so bright to me and through which I am
now looking at you, I will not try to say too many things, but you can per
haps imagine how anxious I am to reach my children, especially James, as he
was really more to me than the rest, in a way.
I think of everything I ever did. All in one minute it comes to me, then
seems to leave me when I try to express something of it to you. (Yes.)
Yet with patience and time, friend, he will become clear and remember
all. + . (Amen.)
Hurry him not, worry him not, and all will be well. Let him look at thy
object and return to thee and tell thee of it, friend +.
(Yes. Is he there, now, Rector ?) Yes. (Shall I ask him to look at the
box and go away and return ?) + has done so.
+ Now after he hath returned, kindly let him tell thee . .
(Yes, before anything else.) [Assent.]
and then ask him another question to think over, etc.
[Here I opened Professor Hyslop's letter containing two questions to be
in readiness.]
Friend, we will answer one question meanwhile for Mrs. M.
(Very good. Yes. I'm listening.)
All is well and we are doing all we can for thee. Make no haste in any
thing for the present, and think little concerning what thou are planning to
do. Wait a little while and it will be wiser for thee. +. (Yes.)
Any question.
(A question from Hyslop !) [Dissent.]
3s0 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Mrs. M. ?) [Assent.]
From her take to us now for a Inter reply.
(She said : ask " If they have any advice or counsel for me in my affairs
at the present time."
"I want to know whether they know what has happened to me lately, as
much as I want their help." She adds that.)
Yes, we do indeed well, and we have given our answer.
(That is all then, is it ?) Yes, until later (Very good.) on, when we meet
thee again. Yes, all.
Yes, it contains my cutter. [Cf. pp. 378, 379.]
How soon are we to meet thee again ! (That is for you to arrange.) We
have now arranged for Mr. D. . . .
Yes, my friend, yes. [Rector to Mr. Hyslop !]
And Mrs. C, and then we can meet thee two times for Mr. Hyslop, and
we prefer that thou, [ { ] as he does also }, shouldst not open this until he
gives thee [the] permission. When he does thou wilt be satisfied. (Yes,
very good.)
Do not do so until we meet thee again for him. (I will not.)
Meanwhile place it in thy room for a few hours whilst thou art there near
what Miss Q. calls her chair (I will.) and he will return there with us, and
then answer here for thee. (Very good. Yes, I understand.)
[January 13th, 1900. For "Q.," see Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 9,
(iO-67. Since the time of that Report I have had many written communica
tions from "Q.," who has made various references to the armchair in which
I usually sit when reading in my room.—R. H.]
Meanwhile, friend, give me the other object, as it will also help him.
[Package C. contents placed on table, book, knife and spectacle case.]
[Hand touches them with much trembling excitement.]
Place it here [indicating that book should be placed where the hand had
placed the box,—on that edge of the writing-table next the cushioned table.]
This I desired most of all.
(Which, Rector ! knife !) [Hand is taking up knife]
Yes. [Hand feels over book again.]
and book, but knife especially. Oh I rem . . [sheet turned]
Oh, I remember so well all I longed to do before . . before .
leaving the body. I often used to sit in my room and pore over the piges
of my books and write out little extracts from them in my diary.
[This statement that he used to pore over his books and make extracts
from them is quite true. I thought it so from some things that I had seen
among his papers after his death, and from what I knew of his general
habits when I was younger, but thinking that I might be mistaken I inquired
of my stepmother regarding it, and find that it was his habit to write
out extracts, though he did not write them in his diary. As indicated in
earlier notes, father did not keep what could be called ordinarily a diary,
but only an account book which served in many respects as a diary, as it
contained facts and records that most people would call or embody in a
diary. He also kept his daily accounts in it. But the extracts from his
reading were written down on other pieces of paper for special use.—
J. H. H.]
XLI.] 381
Appendix II.
What is that, Ferdinand ? [not read and badly written, but apparently
intended for Ferdinand.] sounds like Ferdinand. U D. (No.) Ferdinand.
Fer (No. Can't read.) E.... FERDINAND.
(I will look.) [I look and read the title on back of book, Anderson's
Lectures on Theology. The back of book was doubled over and was not
visible to me before.]
(No, not Ferdinand.) Sounds very like it. He says it again. (It is
Anderson's Lectures on Theology.) Yes. Yes. But did ...AND . . .
I hear it so well . AND . . (Yes.) E . . . Yes, all right ;
he has it. Yes, but this is all I shall need now for some time, he
says. (Yes.)
He is now in the same state that thy friend George was when he first
returned to thee. [I understood this to mean that the communicator was in
the same state as regards appreciation of the situation, ability to communi
cate, etc., as G. P. was when the latter first communicated. See Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., p. 296 (Janwiri, VMh, 1900).—R. H.]
(Shall I now give him a fresh question to take and return ?) Yes.
(His son James asks : "Do you remember any other medicine besides the
Hyomei and strychnine you mentioned before, and that you took at the time
you took them, or near that time ? ")
[Repeated. Hand ap{,arently communicates to Mr. Hyslop !]
No, again kindly.
(I will add something first. You said, Mr. Hyslop, you referred, when
James was here with me, to medicines about which he asked. You said, you
referred to Hyomei, and also to strychnine. Remember ?)
Yes, I do now quite. You refer to what I said after I came here.
(Yes, exactly. When James was here with me, and asking you test
questions, and you were a little confused but trying to recall things for him.)
Yes, I know now, go on.
(Well, James writes : "Do you remember any other medicine besides the
Hyomei and strychnine you mentioned before ") [Hand here turns sharply
away from me to Sp.—to repeat ? after a short interval the hand again turns
to listen to me.] ("and that you took at the time you took them, or near
that time ? ")
Yes, I think I do, and I will try and recall it presently.
(If you will get his question quite clear, and then kindly go away and
think of the answer and then return and give it to me, it will be best,
I think.)
Yes. I -f will remove Rector with him also for a moment as he [Rector]
has the question very clearly and can better communicate it to him. (Yes.)
Adieu R.
[Prudens writes.]
Prudens : Are you well, friend ?
(Yes, thank you. I am very pleased to meet you here.)
What are you talking about kindly ?
(We are getting an answer from Mr. Hyslop whom . .)
Yes, I know. But what did you say to me ? ["]Glad to see me."
(Yes. I said, glad to meet you here.)
Ah, yes, I see, well it is mutual.
382 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I came to help [keep i] keep the light in repair. Are you yetting on well in
your life ?
(Yes. I feel that I am much better off in every way since I came into
relations with your group of workers under Imperator.)
Well, He is constantly caring for you and no messenger could be more
helpful than He is, I know. For the present I am Prudens to all who may
enquire on your side. (Yes.)
I go now. Good-bye. P .
(Good-bye, Prudense [Prudens] for the present.)
[Rector writes.]
Friend, it is impossible for him to answer thes . . these questions until
he returns to thee again. (Very good.) He must and will be helped to
think them out. (Yes.)
And when he does thou wilt be pleased . . pleased. His son, if thou
wilt remember, gave him this opportunity, i.e., to leave the light and return
the next day with answers, and this is what we would have him do. (Yes,
I understand exactly.) It is better so, and will not confuse him. (Very
good.)
Friend, we do not think we can hold the light longer.
(No, the time is nearly up, too.)
He hath drawn on it so completely.
Had it not been for + we could not possibly have remained as .
so [superposed on «s] long so . . as we have already.
(Very good. I come the third and fourth after next Sabbath.)
Yes, unless + hath got him quite clear and sees need for him to speak
earlier, (Yes.) in which case thou shalt know. Speak if thou dost [wish]
(Otherwise, to-morrow Mrs. Z. Monday . . first day after Sabbath,
Mr. D.)
Yes, unless we change this for the benefit of Mr. Hyslop, as we may feel
it necessary.
(In that ease you will tell Mrs. Z. to-morrow ?) Yes, we will. (Very
good. I think all is clear now.)
Friend, we bid thee farewell until we choose to meet thee as thou wilt
know. God be thy guide meanwhile. + {It} [Cross in air.]
[Hand holds up knife, puts it down. Cross in air.]
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
I.
Cut your fingers with it sure. Take it away from him. Take it away
from him. Oh, is that you, Imperator. I want to go too. I want to go.
[in crying voice.]
[Further inarticulate murmurs.]
[In regard to both this and the first of the two sittings in my behalf by
Dr. Hodgson, I wrote to my stepmother to ascertain whether certain in
cidents were true that I could not know, and the following is her reply.
Among them I asked whether there had been any delay or accident on the
railway when they moved to the West, thinking that I had heard in some of
my father's letters of some delay, and supposing that there might have been
some basis in a fact of this sort for the extraordinary statements on his part
XLI.] 383
Appendix II.
about the railway accident, though aware that chronologically such an in
cident would be out of its place in reference to me. Her letter in reply
shows that there was no delay of any kind according to her recollection, though
my brother Frank says that there was some delay in regard to the goods, but
no accident. But even supposing either some delay or an accident or both, I
think we could attach no significance to such a coincidence, except in favour
of chance or guessing ; for the statement in regard to the alleged facts
evidently relates to a trip when I had accompanied him, or when he had
gone alone. The only possibility of relevance therefore lies in the sup
position that the time must coincide with the journeys which my father took
to Illinois. Of course my age of seven years makes my memory too poor to
trust for any purposes, confirmatory or otherwise. I have already mentioned
the fact that I remember distinctly one delay for dinner at Kokomo, Indiana,
and since then I recall the probability that we stopped there twice, once
going and once on returning, but I recall nothing definite enough to say that
there was a delay at that place. But I have a strong impression from
memory that there was a delay at some point on that journey that was due to
an accident, but not to our train. Where, I cannot recall. At any rate, it
was not serious enough to be talked about either to relatives or at home
among his children, and no one is now living that could possibly throw light
upon the matter but myself and my mother's sister, who was with us at the
time, as I was the only child with him and mother at the time, except sister
Annie, and she died a few years afterward. My aunt remembers no railway
accident in which father was at any time.
But the answers to my questions put to my stepmother regarding the
various incidents in the two sittings explain themselves. I did not tell her
the contents of the statements made in Boston, but inquired to know whether
certain facts were true or not.—J. H. H.
Bloomington, Ind., February 11ft, 1899.
Mv dear James,—Your note of February 9th at hand, and I reply at
once.
1st. Your father never called our sitting room at Delphi the "library."
2nd. No, he never had a photo taken of any description to send to George.
3rd. He had a little wooden paper-cutter that Frank made him to open
letters with once while he was at home with us in Delphi, but he positively
never carried it in his spectacle case, but in his vest pocket.
4th. No, there was no delay or accident on our way from Xenia to
Delphi.
5th. No delay or accident happened to the cars that brought our goods.
They got to Delphi before we did.
6th. No, he had no mark behind his ear. [Cf. p. 410.]
7th. When he wanted to write an article for publication he would read
up and note down extracts that he wanted to use. Most generally he put
the ideas in his own language, but in his general reading he did not,—
Affectionately, Mother.
I remember in my correspondence at the time that my father complained
of some delay and difficulty in getting his goods through as he had desired,
and this is confirmed by my brother's statement.—J. H. H.]
384 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Record of Sitting, February Myth, 1899.
R. H.
[Rector speaks.]
* * *
[Rector writes.]
* * * * *
Now we are ready for other work and will do all we can under the
circumstancefs].
We have meanwhile had some conference with Mr. Hyslop, and whereas
we . . whilst we find him far from what we desire we know he will be
all we could ask or desire him to be for thy work. In due time thou wilt
have much comfort through him and his messages. After he becomes clear
he will be of much help to thee. Here he comes. We were speaking with
him concerning the medicine . . medicine, and he thinks James means
the morphin . . the morphine which he took some time before.
(Shall I read the question again ?) [Cross in air.]
Ah, but we know he says Morphine. Yes.
("Do you remember any other medicine besides the Hyomei and
strychnine you mentioned before, and that you took at the time you took
them, or near that time ? ")
Yes, all right. It must be this, as I took some. (Yes.)
[I know nothing of father's having taken morphine and doubted it when
I read this passage. The nature of the difficulty, however, under which he
suffered, which would prompt some physicians, at least according to older
practice, to resort to it, led me to inquire both of the physician who attended
his last illness and of my stepmother whether father had ever used any
morphine, and both answer in the negative. The physician did not prescribe
any for him after his return to his old home to die, and I knew there was no
reason in the disease itself for hope of relief in this remedy, though morphine
might have been serviceable to aid his sleep. He had also suffered from
much sleeplessness for a year or more before his death and this was the
reason that I suspected the possibility of his having taken morphine under
the old-fashioned treatment he received in the State in which he was then
living. My stepmother says in answer to my inquiry : "No, he never took
any morphine at any time that I ever knew of. He always said that he
never could take it."—J. H. H.] [See Note 28, p. 410.]
(Now, shall I go on with Mr. Hyslop now !) [Assent.]
Yes, do kindly, as + is with him, doing His best to keep him near. The
object first. We desire his glasses first as he has them on his mind and we
desire to clear his mind in regard to them. After he has fully recognised
them we will have no further question from him concerning them . .
concerning them, and he will then go on with the other.
[In the meantime I had placed the metal box of previous sittings on table.
At this stage I directed the hand to the box. ]
Yes, one pr. of them is [written above line after here with caret below.]
here and the other pr. there [not read at first].
one pair is here and the ("other pair is") near . . near, [hand
points in direction of my bag on floor.]
XLI.] 385
Appendix II.
[I get spectacle case of leather out of parcel in bag, original package C
used at previous sitting for Hyslop, and put it close to other box on table.]
They are both here. Yes. One spectacles in fact both in fact both
spectacles.
Yes. All right. I am very glad to see you. How is James, and have
you really seen him or do you only hear
(I only hear at present. You would . . .)
through what we used to call letters !
[Singular statement : it is like the ordinary medium's.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, he . . I got a letter from him this morning, but he wrote it
some days ago and mailed it in New York without a stamp, and so it was
returned. You would joke him on this.)
I would indeed.
(It was about questions for you, which I will give you when you have
cleared your mind about the spectacles and the articles inside this case.)
They are my spectacles, friend. Yes. I have other things on my mind
of course naturally, but I am near enough to enable me to see that the out
line [ { ] as it appears to me now } [bracket apparently inserted after of was
written.] of the outline of my spectacles are present.
Here and here. [Holding up each case in turn.]
I am very pleased to know you as I often heard of you when I was in the
body. (Oh, did James speak of me ?) Yes. Tell him this, he will remember
it very well.
[I did speak of Dr. Hodgson to my father in the conversation mentioned
in my own sittings, but as often as I may have mentioned him in this con
versation I cannot be said to have done it in the way that it is most natural
to interpret this statement here. I gave father one of the first two reports
on Mrs. Piper to read, but I cannot recall whether it was Part XVII., Pro
ceedings S.P.R., or Dr. Hodgson's first Report, Part XXI. My impression
is that it was the former. But there is nothing in the allusion to suspect
that this is in mind, except a desire that an interested person might have to
construe the frequency indicated in an unnatural manner. —J. H. H.]
Do not gather the idea that I was subject to . . gather . . morphia
because I was not, only as a medicine ... a subject U D.
[True, pertinent and natural, but without significance. A medium's
trick.—J. H. H.] [Further reflection shows that this last remark is not
justified. November 3rd, 1899.—J. H. H.]
(I understand. Yes.)
Can you not give me some idea of the time since I left your side of life ?
Is it what used to seem years to us, or is it only months ? I remember the spring
very well. (I think, Mr. Hyslop, it is some two years or so, but I am not
sure.) Oh, no, I think not. Two years. Well, well, if it has taken me two
years to find this door open I am ashamed of it. I think I lived in the body
in the spring I remember it so well [spring not read] . . what we used to
call spring [read] . . so wel . . yes. Yes, spring.
[No meaning in this, except that it is false if the intention be to allude to
the time of his death. He died the last of August, 1896.—J. H. H.]
[Further inquiry shows that in the spring of 1895 father suddenly re
covered his voice, and was very happy and hopeful about it, and, as a
2 c
386 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
consequence, renewed an active interest in certain religious matters involv
ing the use of his voice. He lost it again in a few months, and then in the
spring of 1896, a few months before his death, he became very much
depressed by the evidence that his disease was getting the better of him.
This might possibly explain the allusion to spring. (May 22nd, 1900.)—
J. H. H.]
Now, can you recall anything about my beliefs in God ? You know well
that I always intended [tended !] to [apparently interpreted by R. H. at the
time as "You know well what I always tended to"] do, that was to shut
my eyes to what I could not really see.
(He's getting confused, Rector, isn't he ?)
jVo. He means he would not really believe he could return, but hoped
he would be able to do so. U D. (Yes.) [See p. 474.]
Yes, he seems quite clear just now. Perhaps it would do to ask him
another question. Yes. He says it would.
(Well James says :) Speak softly and slowly, kindly friend.
(James says : ' ' Do you remember Samuel Cooper and can you say any
thing about him ?") [Repeated, and Coo1w also spelt.]
+ will take this to him. [Pause.]
Yes, I do very well, and this reminds me of the accident. [No relevancy
in this remark.—J. H. H.] [See Note 30, p. 412.]
He refers to the old friend of mine in the West. [Not true unless
" West " could mean icest of Boston. But this wonld make it a mediumistic
trick.—J. H. H.] [Later discoveries of what I did not know show that
father's statement is true of Dr. Joseph Cooper, and that any remark about
a trick is not justified. (Januaiy 1st, 1900.)—J. H. H.]
I remember the visits we used to make to each other well, and the long
talks we had concerning Philisiavel [ ? ] Phisochvacl [ ? ] P h i 1 o soph .
[philosophical] topics.
Let me think this over, James, and I wi [sheet turned] . . will answer
it completely, and tell you all about him [not read] . . tell . . and
tell you all I know about him.
Yes. This is [all] [In reply to my inability to read the word complettly
at the time.]
And I will answer for you. (" This is I " ?)
("and I will answer for you " ?)
Yes, that is all.
[This reference to the visits and talks on philosophical topics has no truth
in it whatsoever. The man for whom I had asked was an old neighbour of
father's in the State in which father lived before moving to Indiana, and I
knew if he in any way recognised this man with the slightest allusion to some
simple truth about their lives on adjacent farms it would be conclusive
evidence of identity. This Samuel Cooper was so far from being philosophic
that he would not understand even the word. The phrase "philosophical
topics " then sounds like an echo of some telepathic acquisitions obtained
from my mind when in Boston. It has absolutely no relevance to the
person named in my question.—J. H. H.] [For effect of further inquiry
upon my estimate of this general incident, see Note 29, p. 410. (May 23rd,
1900.)—J. H. H.]
XLl.] Appendix II. 387
Do you recall a little black skull cap or w [the I used superposed on or tc]
I used to wear and what has become of it ? I have looked and looked for it,
but do not see it anywhere about. [See Note, p. 40(i, and pp. 43, 44.]
Answer this for me, James, when you come again.
Friend, thou mayst not know of him much, but he does well, and is quite
clear about it. He also inquires of a special pen or quill, as he calls it, with
which he used to write. (Yes. I will tell James.)
[This allusion to the skull cap again is interesting, especially in connection
with that to the "pen or quill" : for it induced me to inquire of an aunt who
knew father's early habits when he became bald, as he did very early, and
before I was born. He was bold as far back as I can remember, and I
thought it possible that he might have worn some cap for his head, though
such a thing as wearing a skull cap was foreign to his own habits and an un
known among his acquaintances. I find that he never wore such a thing in
his early life. But he did use quill pens until he bought the gold pen which
I had sent on to Dr. liodgson for use at the sittings. The cap is mentioned
in a later sitting, and I shall add there what I did in regard to a similar
allusion in my last sitting in Boston on December 27th.—J. H. H.] [See
Note, p. 406.]
and . . wait . . . what is he talking about . . . [Excite
ment] book kindly . Book . . Book directly.
[I presented the book from parcel C on the floor.]
Yes we desire to hold him. Yes, he seems to be quite himself just now.
I also recall a thin black coat or dressing gown affair I used to wear
mornings. (Yes, that's first rate.)
I can see myself sitting in my old armchair before the fire . . open
[open fire] in the library [not read at sitting] ("evening " !) [Dissent] [See
Note 43, p. 502.]
Wait a moment friend, do not haste.
morning.
reading over the paper. Look at me there, James, and see me in the gown
I refer to and answer me.
(Yes, I will tell James, and he will later send you lots of messages, and
come also to see you, I hope, many times himself. He will be very pleased
to receive your pictures of the things you used to do.)
[I never knew him to wear a thin coat or gown mornings while sitting
before the fire. I remember him only as wearing often a different coat when
so sitting before the fire from that which he did his work in when the
weather was cold. The whole pissage savours too much of a description of
one who lives in a library or among books to be used as evidence, especially
the word "gown," which father would never use. I find from my step
mother, however, that father did use to wear a thin coat in the mornings
when sitting before the fire.—J. H. H.] [Later references to this incident
and further study convince me that there is more pertinence in it than the
above note admits. (May 23rd, 1900.)—J. H. H. Cf. pp. 54-55.]
Yes, I am glad. It will be pleasant to talk . . talk with him as I
used. James was always a good son, and cared much for me. As I grew
older . as I grew older he . . we grew together—i.e., companion
able . . companionable [Correct.—J. H. H.] as we were much
2 c 2
388 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
together. [Not correct.—J. H. H.] And Nannie, I often think of her and
her faithfulness to me . yes faith . . faithfulness. (Yes.)
Did you realise that my bronchial trouble disturbed me much ?
. my . . Perhaps you know about this, but I feel it no more.
(Cf. pp. 327-328.)
(All the physical troubles are over now.)
Yes, and I feel very well satisfied with myself, quite unlike my former
self, James. (YTes.)
I do not think I can speak with you much longer now, but I will come
when I can and tell you all I have on my mind.
[This whole passage beginning with the flattering allusion to myself has a
singular interest. First it represents just what father would say about me
to anyone else. We did grow more companionable toward the end of his
life, the estrangement caused by my apostacy having been overcome. But
we cannot be said to have been much together. The very opposite was the
fact, as some of my other notes abundantly show, except that we often
talked a great deal with each other when we were together. This allusion to
the faithfulness of Nannie, which is the name of his sister, while it is true,
has no pertinence whatever here, especially when we look at the following
statement in reference to his bronchial trouble, which was perfectly true.
If he had used the name Maggie, which is that of my stepmother, there
would have been extraordinary pertinence in the passage, all the more so when
we know the care and patience with which my stepmother nursed him during
his long illness. (Cf. pp. 342, 366.) This does not seem to me like the
ordinary mediumistic trick, because the word " faithfulness " and the specific
allusion to bronchial trouble are too true and pertinent, the word
"faithfulness" being just what he was accustomed to use to me when
defending my stepmother against criticisms which stepmothers have often to
bear from step-children. It is not less interesting to note also the evident
intention to speak of the bronchial trouble to a stranger who is supposed not
to have known the fact. This word had not been used in any of my sittings,
but from what I have said in regard to his disease, it is pertinent enough to
be called correct, though not technically right. It was the larynx that was
attacked, but the disease had penetrated into the bronchial tubes and they
were badly affected with it. But in a tit of unconsciousness, as it were, in
the attempt to communicate, it is noticeable that there is a change from the
address to the third person to addressing me in the second person. There is
no significance in this except that it may help to show the possible source
of the confusion in the whole passage which can be cleared up in the way I
have spoken of it.—J. H. H.]
(Yes. Can . . .)
I wish George could come to me. (Do you mean to your world !) Yes,
I do. (Why !) James will U D. this. (All right.)
[I do not understand this, though in the light of a later sitting it may be
made intelligible.—J. H. H.]
However, I see it is better so.
Do you remember your sister Annie ? (Did James have a sister Annie ?)
[repeated] Yes. [This is correct, and Dr. Hodgson seems to have forgotten
what came in this name at my sittings.—J. H. H.]
Appendix II. 889
(All right. I will tell him.) She is here with me, and she is calling
to you.
(Mr. Hyslop.) Yes, I hear you. What do you wish !
(It is curious. I know your son James very well, anil we are interested
together in this work. I have a sister Annie also, and she is still in the
body, and I think your views in the body were probably not unlike my own
father's, and you might be interested to meet my father over there, and you
can talk to him about James, and perhaps he will tell you something about
me. I think you and my father would get along very well.)
Well, I am glad to know this, and I will surely look him up, but you will
remember one thing, and that is that my Annie is not yours. (Yes, I under
stand. She's with you.) Yes, and I will surely find your father and know
him. These kind friends will help me to find him. (Yes, they will ; they
will introduce you to him. I shall be very pleased if they will.)
Was he very orthodox, do you think ! (Fairly so.) [This question is not
like father, though it is not impossible. —J. H. H.]
Well, there is no need for it here. However, we won't discuss that until
later, when we know each other better. (He was a Wesleyan Methodist.)
Well, this of course was more or less orthodox. [This sounds like an echo
of Dr. Hodgson's "fairly so."—J. H. H.] (Yes, oh yes, indeed.)
Exactly, well we will get on finely soon. I know this perfectly well.
But I must get accustomed te this method of speech, and see how I can best
express my [best written above express with caret below] my thoughts to you.
(Yes.)
I am now thinking of my own things and concerns.
I can preach myself very iwell. Ask my son if this is not so. I recall
many things which I would gladly have changed if it had been as clear to
me as it is now. I wish I could take my knife a moment, as it will .
[Knife, from parcel C, given to hand.]
It will help me when I return to you. I do not think I can say more to
you now.
(Well, I am very pleased to have had this talk with you, and I am sure
that James will be glad to read what you told me about the medicine and
gown and reading the paper and so on.)
Well I have so many things to say of much greater importance in a way
later when I can fully and clearly express myself.
I am anxious to do much for him. (Yes.) Will you excuse me, I must
go. (Yes, certainly. Good-bye for the present. Thank you very much.)
[Excitement.] There is one tune going through my mind. Listen.
Neiirer my 0ixl to Thee. Hyslop.
[This whole passage in reference to Dr. Hodgson's father and the state
ments purporting to come from my father are full of difficulties. With excep
tion to the allusion to my sister Annie it might be taken to be a deliberate
fabrication of the medium on the suggestion from Dr. Hodgson's mention of
his father being a Wesleyan Methodist. The statement of my father that he
could " preach " and that I could confirm it is not true, except in the sense
that it would be true of any one who took as much interest in religious
matters as he did, who spoke at prayer meetings as often as he did, and
who commented on a chapter in the Bible in substitution for a sermon, as he
390 [part
J, H. Hyxlop, Ph.D.
did when we had no preaching. But he would never call thin "preaching,"
and he never undertook any function in such services that could be mistaken
for " preaching," at least within my experience and recollection. It seems
to be an idea that might be readily awakened by association with the con
ception of a Wesleyan Methodist in any brain acquainted with their laymen's
habits. This is also confirmed by the quotation from the hymn, "Nearer,
my God, to Thee." For the very interesting fact here is that father belonged
to a denomination that would not tolerate either hymn singing or instrumental
worship in its religious services, and father never knew a hymn in his
life, while this hymn is a perfectly familiar one to Wesleyans and others. It
would be the last thing in the world that he would quote at all, and especially
to prove his identity to me. His attendance at church also was so strict that
he never went to any church where he would even hear a hymn. He did not
even, after 1858, go to any church whose doctrines and practices most
resembled his own, but only to his own congregation. Hence this quotation
looks like the very worst attempt to establish identity, and runs the risk of
doing the very opposite. It is probable that father had heard this hymn at
some funeral service where it was sung, but he certainly could not quote it
freely, and would not be tempted consciously or purposely to mention
it in order to identify himself to me. He was not opposed to singing
hymns for secular purposes, and during the Moody and Sankey excite
ment allowed us children to sing them at home on evenings with accom
paniment of organ music. But he would not tolerate them in any other
connection.
If we have a right to interpret the passage as an automatism and repre
sentation of conceptions which any person, incarnate or discarnate, would
naturally have, and as a most probable memory of my father, we could explain
the incidents on the spirit hypothesis, but it would be far from affording any
evidence for it. On the contrary, it awakens suspicions in this regard and
requires overwhelming evidence of a better import to justify any attempt to
explain away difficulties. —J. H. H.] [See Note 31, p. 413. (May 2.3rd,
1900).-J. H. H.]
[Further consideration has led me to think that I attributed too little
importance to the substitute for preaching which my father gave us in the
form of comments on a chapter in the Bible. I found also a striking
significance in the mention of the hymn. See Note 31, p. 413.]
Friend, he is awakening, and seems very clear this day.
I hope he will feel free soon as we do now.
* » * * *
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
I.
Who's the little dark man ?
He's very persistent any way, isn't he, Rector !
You'll manage him if you keep on.
I don't want anybody . . .
Good-bye.
I didn't want to ache [!] any, —I didn't want to go. I don't want to go
into the dark world any more.
XLI.] 391
Appendix II.
fiecord of Sitting. February 20th, 189'.).
R. H.
[Rector writes.]
*■***♦
I come to meet you once more. I am nearer than before.
I think the way begins to seem brighter to me. Have you not any word
for me from my son ?
(Yes. He says that he doesn't know about that morphine, but he was
thinking of some patent medicine.)
Oh yes I will think and ans him ans. . . yes. Do not hurry
me, friend, and I will give it to you.
(Yes, no hurry . . .) I wish (perhaps you would like . . .)
you would ask him if he does not recall the fact of my taking several grains
of morphia before I took the Hyomi.
[It is interesting to observe that the word Hyomei is spelled almost
correctly here, though it was not pronounced or spelled by me in
Mrs. P.'s presence. Dr. Hodgson, however, had pronounced it several
times in the previous sittings. As already remarked, it is the medicine
that I had asked my father about in my earlier sitting, and in the absence
of myself from this sitting might be given much evidential value, but
for the necessity of reckoning with Mrs. P.'s subliminal and its memory.—
J. H. H.]
I think he will recall it yet. It was, if I remember rightly . . rightly,
I think, some months before when I had a bad or ill turn, he says.
I will try and recall the name of that preparation. Anything more
before I go i (I think best one thing at a time.)
Yes, I think so, friend, but we find he does better by returning .
ret . after we also have gone and returned.
Friend, repeat his question to me. + [Imperator.]
("Do you remember any other medicine besides the Hyomei and strych
nine you mentioned before, and that you took at the time you took them, or
near that time ? ")
We hail thee, friend. All will be well. [From Imperator.]
I, personally, have much to do, friend. R. [From Rector.]
(Yes. I understand, Rector.)
* * * » »
Yes. I took . . . [Hand raps once emphatically.]
Yes. I took MMMU...MUN...M..
Give me something.
[Metal box, spectacle case, and knife and book given.]
Yes. I took Munion . . M U N Y 0 N . . . sounds like
. and he repeats again and again.
G e r n i s i d e (Gerniside !) [Assent]
Yes. G . . Qermiside.
Did you realise my voice was weak, friend 1
[This allusion to his having had a weak voice is pertinent and true, but I
cannot give it as much force as it might have. But it is interesting. —
J. H. H.]
392 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(I didn't know.) I say it was. H. (I think I remember that James told
me so, or wrote about it.) It was quite, but I am anxious to speak plainly
to and for you.
(Yes, do not worry. Feel quite calm, and think quietly of any other
medicines that you took that you think James knows about.)
I took at one time some preparation of Oil, but the name has gone from
my memory. I know everything so well when I am not speaking to you.
Do you hear me. (Yes. I . .) Now .
[These attempts to give the names of the medicines which he had taken
in addition to those mentioned in my sittings have some interest. The one
that I had in mind when I sent on the question is not mentioned, and I have
had to send West to find out whether there was any truth in the statements
made here. I recognised at once the internal probability that at least some
of them were correct, as the disease would require some form of Germicide,
and some preparations of oil would serve it well. I went also and inquired
of the druggists in this city, without telling them what I wanted the informa
tion for, whether the first-named medicine, " Munyon's . ." was for
catarrh, and I found one by that name for this disease, which was what father
thought he had. I found also that, though there was no special medicine by
the name of Germicide, there were many medicines called by that name or
said to have that property, which were or could be used for catarrh, and I
knew merely that father had taken many patent medicines for his trouble.
But I had to wait word from the West from my stepmother for any positive
evidence as to the statements here made. My mother answers as follows :—
Dear James,—As Frank has written at length, I will answer your
questions briefly.
1st. Your father never took any medicine in his sickness that sounded
like "Munion."
2nd. The inhaler that you sent him was the only thing that could be
called a Germicide.
3rd. He did not take any preparation of oil internally. —Affectionately,
Mother.
It must be remembered that I did not tell my stepmother what had been
told at the sitting, but simply asked the simple questions whether father had
ever taken the medicines named. My brother answers the same questions
as follows :—
120, East 3rd Street, Bloomington, Indiana,
February 23rd, 1899.
Mv Dear James,—When father was using an inhaler for his sore throat
he used a medicine called Hyomei. It was a medicine put up in New York
by R. T. Booth, and you got it for him, father, along with the inhaler and
sent it to him. This Hyomei was claimed by Mr. Booth to be a germicide
and hence to be a specific for all lung and throat troubles.
Father had Itev. Morton Malcom to send him from Pennsylvania, I
think, a bottle of medicine called Japanese oil. It was a strong liniment for
external application chiefly. I think he used some of it in that way, but did
not take it internally.
Frank E. Hvsi.op.
Appendix II. 393
New York, March Uth, 1899.
I culled to-day at one of the wholesale drug stores to inquire if among
Munyon's medicines there was one called Germicide, and was answered in
the affirmative. It is a medicine for catarrh and is taken by an inhaling
process. I was shown the apparatus by which the medicine is taken, and it
consists of a bottle with an arrangement for dissolving the medicine and
inhaling the vapor through a tube. The emphatic answer of my brother and
mother that father never took any of this prevents any use of the statements
at the sitting except as a failure. It is interesting, however, to note that
this medicine culled Germicide, or rather Catarrh medicine denominated as a
Germicide, is just what father would have considered with his idea of what
his disease was. It is more than probable that he had seen and consulted various
advertisements, but I have not been able at this date to discover the slightest
evidence that he ever took it. Assuming that he had often thought of it we
can explain the statement at the sitting as consistent with the supposition
that we were dealing with a discarnate spirit, but without farther evidence
that he had thought of it the incident must be set down with that of the
morphine as an error, and in no case as evidence.—J. H. H.]
[See Notes 32, p. 413, and 33, p. 414.]
(I wonder if you could not tell Rector various things that would be
important for James and let him tell me.)
He can tell me distinctly only when I am not speaking to thee, friend,
but . . .
(Yes. I understand, Rector. But, for example, as I tried successfully
long ago with the old communicator Phinuit, I asked him when I was not
here . . . )
Ah yes. I will be glad to do this for thee and bring his answers to thee
on the . . on the third day. U D.
(Rector. Why, if this is the best way of getting clear answers, why is it
needful to bring him here at all ?)
So that he will see me operate and U D how and why we reach thee, that
he may not be perplexed at our inquiries, also to be better able to recollect
his earthly experiences, through coming into contact with his objects,
etc. U D.
(It is absolutely necessary, then !)
Yes, otherwise He would not have it so. But thou wilt remember that
it requires time and patience to clear up his mind absolutely in regard
to his earthly life. Thou wilt U D that much of it is gladly forgotten by
all of us.
(Yes, indeed. I think perhaps it might be better not to ask any more
of his son's questions, but let Mr. Hyslop himself continue to recall what he
thinks best.)
[This statement by Rector is hardly consistent with that made by my
father. That is, Rector says that the earthly recollections are so likely to
be fiirgotten and father says that he can recall them so clearly when he is not
speaking through this machine. I had asked Dr. Hodgson why he did not
have Rector ask father the question away from the sitting and bring the
answer himself. This recommended itself to me because it seems that
Rector can think and write with perfect clearness, and that it could not be
394 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
said of him that the conditions caused any special confusion. This then is
the answer that we get when the trial is made, and it seems to quite
contradict the implications of father's statements written hy Rector himself
as the communications themselves indicate. The explanations are not
impossible, and apart from the statements made about the effect of the
machine and the clear memory away from it might be treated as reasonable.
Of course, if Rector means that the forgetfulness occurs when in contact
with the machine we can understand it, but the statements suggest diffi
culties.-,!. H. H.]
Yes, wisely so, friend, and we agree perfectly that this is the better way,
as thou didst do by George and others, because it only leads [leades] to
confusion [confussion] of thought and at times brings back memories which
are glad to be forgotten. The pleasantest [pleasantes] side of his earthly
experiences will be recollected, and expressed by so doing . . expressed
by . . after which he will be able to tell all.
Friend, whilst speaking he is like in comparison to a very sick . .
very sick man . . whilst . . yet when we take his objects it clears
him greatly for the moment.
Now I am told to take what I can from them and recall myself the
question, take it to him, also one any other that is of a pleasing nature, and
return in due time to thee with a definite answer. R.
Meanwhile give me question and I will take it. (The medicine question ?)
No, I can tike two easily, since I I'D the first well.
(Well, I do not know surely what is of a pleasant nature.)
I will take Cooper, I think. (Yes. Samuel Cooper.) Yes, is it Samuel 1
(" Do you remember Samuel Cooper, and can you say anything about
him?")
SAMUEL. Yes. 'Very well. Very well, friend, I have it.
(And you know the medicine one ?) Yes. Listen. What other kind of
medicine did you tike besides the Hyomi and [or written over the a?irf]
about that time . . . and or . .
(Yes, and besides also the Strychnine.) Strycnia
Yes. I do. [to Sp.]
I will act faithfully and do the very best with this, friend. (Yes. Thank
you, Rector.) I will return as per appointment and give it thee straight off.
(Yes, thank you.)
» * ♦ * *
[Here the hand, in touching the objects, pushed the metal box over the
edge of the table, and it fell and opened, revealing the contents, spectacles,
pen, and folded 1Kiper packet.]
What have I done ?
(The box that was here, you accidentally with the hand knocked off the
table to the floor. There is no harm done. You may now show him the
contents.)
[I had fulfilled the request made on February 8th (p. 380), and on
several occasions for several hours together when alone in my rooms, had
placed this box on my table near my arm-chair, keeping it of course still
closed.]
[Much excitement over these contents.]
XL!.] 395
Appendix II.
Oh I remember so well this pr. of spectacles, and the place in on [super
posed on '»] which it used to lie on my desk. I can see
it all, and I near the ... I also had near it a piper
cutter, a writing pad, a number [of] rests . . rests
for this, and two glass bottles, yes, one square in shape
and the other rather round. This was your sister's.
(Which !) [Paper packet held up.] (In the paper ?) Yes. (What is it ')
Let him look at it a moment.
I am thinking . . it is the two little pieces of what we used to call
money if I mistake not, which I do not think I do.
[I here took up the paper packet by the middle and felt what I inferred
to be the edges of two coins 1]
I cannot really say more to you now. I am getting weak. Let me look
at this again. I am sure, however. Good-bye.
[This whole passage about everything except the recognition of the
spectacles is false. I, of course, knew nothing about the incidents, but in
quired of my stepmother and brother in regard to them without telling them
what the statements were. I find that father never kept these spectacles on
his desk, nor the case, but both of them in the pocket of trousers which he
wore on occasions of going to church or visiting, so that he would not forget
them. Moreover, he had no writing pad, no rest for such, and never kept
any but an ink bottle on his desk. The allusion to the coins was also false.
I had wholly forgotten what the little piece of paper contained when I sent it
with the case and its contents, but I knew that the object or objects were
not coins. I have a record of what they are, but refused to consult it before
sending. They are most probably what Dr. Hodgson suspected them to be,
and I am quite sure that I can guess whose they are. But I know that they
were not my sister's.
The mediumistic memory is quite apparent here, as both the writing pad
and the paper cutter are recalled at once in connection with the articles which
the accident brought to the attention.—J. H. H.] [Later inquiry alters both
myknowledge of the facts and my judgment of the case. See Note 34, p. 414.]
(Good-bye, good-bye, Mr. Hyslop.) I am going. I cannot work for
more now.
Friend. Listen. I cannot hold him . . (No . . . ) he is going
and I am going presently behind him U D. (Yes. I do.)
What can I do for thee but bestow my blessings on thee, friend, and all
that thou dost do. (Amen. I shall be grateful.)
I could not, as it would be impossible, re . . .
[Hand bows as in prayer for a short time.]
remain here longer for him. Friend, hear me kindly . . hear me.
We will meet Mr. D. on the fifth and . . and thou wilt U D.
(Yes, fifth this week.) after past Sabbath. (I understand.)
Do friend in thy heart be true to God.
Friend, it is wise that we depart, and ere we go we give thee our
blessings. May God the Supreme watch over thee for all time. Farewell.
-I- {R} (Amen.) [Cross in air.]
i See note at end of sitting.
39G [part
J. H. Hyslap, Ph.D.
[Note. —Here, while putting the paper packet back in metal box, I felt
what appeared to be very distinctly not coins, but elliptical objects. I
inferred at the moment perhaps the lenses from spectacles. —R. H.]
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
I.
Is that a blessing Say it. * *
Father be and abide with thee for evermore.
Servus Dei .... I don't know.
I have all these to look out for. I leave thee well.
Go and do the duties before thee.
Blessings on thy head.
The light shall cease.
Why do you say that !
Are you going ! Good-bye.
I want to go along the same path with you.
Hear the whistle. [This was an ordinary " earthly " whistle which I also
heard.]
Not to worry.
What did you reach out your hand for ! You made me all so warm. I'm
all of a perspiration.
[Mrs. P. looked flushed, almost as if she had been walking on a warm
day. She then " heard her head snap."]
Record of Sitting, February 22nd, 1899.
R. H.
[Rector writes.]
Rector. (Good morning.) We hail thee, friend, and bring light to thee.
Waste no idle moments in trying to enlighten those whose minds are
lying [line] dormant. It is a useless task [time written first, then ask super
posed on the letters me.]. Time alone can do this. We only ask thee to work
on faithfully and earnestly in one held until we bid thee reach out beyond
that field to cithers. R. . . Bid . . Bid. (Yes.)
[January 13th, 1900. This might have applied to a long conversation
which I had on the previous morning with a caller in my office concerning
certain aspects of psychical work. —R. H.]
I will not remain alone here long, friend, as they are coining and will be
here presently. (Yes.)
Friend, art thou well ? (Yes, I think I am perfectly well, Rector, thank
you.) Good news awaits thee and greater help. Peace be to thy mind ever
more. (Amen.)
(Shall I ask about sitters now !)
Presently. I am here holding the light whilst + returns. I will be able
to enlighten thee presently.
Friend, we boldly assert that what we teach will deter from sin to a
greater degree than anything which [has] heretofore been given to mortal
man. R. Coming. (J D. . . that what [Difficulty in reading the
word what above, necessitating repetition.] (Yes 1 understand, yes.)
XLI.] 397
Apltendix II.
HAIL. (Hail, Imperator.) We welcome thee and on thee bestow our
blessing. We are producing a change in the light.
We bring first Mr. Hyslop, who hails thee as we do.
(Yes. I . . . articles !) [Metal box and contents given.]
Yes. I remember quite well of taking this vapor preparation to which I
have previously given mention and also the other U D, and the name Cooper
is very clear to me also as I had a friend by the name who was . . P
. . of philosophical [pshliosophical ?] turn of mind and for whom I had
great respect, and who . . . with whom I had some friendly discussion
and correspondence. I had also several tokens [!] which I recollect well.
One was a photo to which I referred when James was present and in
my collection, among my collection.
Do you recall, James, the one to which I refer ? I know this clearly and
I have met him here. He is if you recall on this side of life with me and
came some years before I did. I liked much his philanthropic views and as
you will remember a close companionship with him. I am too weak to
remain, will return in a moment.
Among my collection of letters you will also find several of his which I
preserved.
I remember a discussion on the subject of regelego [?] regnal [?] regelnion
with him some years ago. Doubtless you are thinking of this also. Religion
. yes sure [?]
There are many things I can recall concerning him later. [See Notes
29, p. 410, and 39, p. 499].
Look for my letters, also the photo to which I refer, James.
Now what else can I do for you ? Do you remember the stick I used to
carry with the turn in the end, on which I carved my initials ? If so, what
have you done with it ! They are in the end . . with the turn . .
t U R N, he says. (Yes, I understand.)
I used to use it for emphasising expression occasionally.
[Hand strikes pencil on book several times.]
(Thumping down ?) [Hand keeps repeating a turning motion.]
Yes, he turns it about and then caresel . . carelessly drops it . .
the end of it. U D. (Yes. I think so.)
If not, speak now before he becomes in any way confused.
[This long and complex message has much interest, though I cannot say
that it is evidential. The first statement about the medicine is correct. The
Hyomei was a vapour which had to be taken by means of a special instru
ment which I got at the time I got the medicine itself. It is impossible to
say, however, whether the communicator intends here to thus characterise
the medicines which he had named previously to Dr. Hodgson, or the
Hyomei, which he mentioned to me at my fourth sitting. The phrase, "and
also the other," makes it probable, and perhaps conclusive, that the vapour
refers to the Hyomei. If so it is an interesting coincidence, and not less so
with the fact that much of the passage is not true.
It is evident that the predominant idea about this Samuel Cooper is that
he was of "a philosophical turn of mind," which is, as I have said before,
absolutely false. It is true that the two men differed radically in their
398 [part
J. H. Hyslo,), Ph.D.
religious views, at least in the opinion of each of thein, for one was a
Wesleyan, and the other, my father, a Presbyterian. They have had
" friendly discussions " on the subject of religion, which the usually supposed
difference between philoso],hy and religion in the common mind might
suggest to any brain, but they never carried on any correspondence. The
statement that he had met him " here" is pertinent, and also that " he came
some years before I did," is exactly correct. From what I have just said
above alxiut the correspondence it will be apparent that there are no letters
from this man in father's collection.
The reference to a photo in his "collection" is not definite enough to
make anything out of it. Nor was it definite enough at my sitting to
recognise what was meant. But I now recall a large photo of father which
might be meant, especially when I recall that at my sitting he wished me to
have it, he always knowing that I would value it most and be more likely to
keep it carefully. But it would have to be more particularly indicated here
in order to suppose that either this or any other particular picture was
intended. It is the same memory, however, that is here at work that
claimed to be my father at my sittings.
This reference to the "stick with a turn in the end, on which I carved
my initials '' has some possibilities in it. I know he had a cane with a turn in
it at the end, the usual curved end for holding it. I gave it to him myself, but
I do not know whether he ever carved his initials on it or not. I rather think
he did not do so. But as he had more than one "stick' he may have had
one such as is here described. I shall have to inquire in the West about
it.—J. H. H.
Since writing the above a letter from my brother says: " Father never
had a cane or ' stick ' with his initials carved on it. He never used a cane or
stick to emphasise his talk."
My brother who wrote this was probably too young to remember that an
older brother and sister with myself once gave father a cane, an ebony cane,
with his initials carved on it, and that it was lost on the train while travelling.
But this Wine was not curved at the top or anywhere. It was a perfectly
straight stick. I refused to mention this fact until I learned whether he had
ever had any other stick answering to the description given at the sitting.
The cane I gave him was curved at the top, but had no initials on it when I
gave it to him, and I did not know whether any initials had been put on it
by him or not. It was not his habit to do anything of this sort. He valued
a cane only for its use and not as a memento, so that I should not naturally
expect what he here mentions as anything done by himself, though that is
not what is necessarily implied by the statement. I shall inquire further
about the emphasis.
In my first correspondence regarding the " stick " or cane I did not tell
anything about the statements made to Dr. Hodgson in Boston, and the
answers came as already recorded. The attempt to make clear at the sitting that
the communicator had a curved cane in mind suggested to me that possibly
there was an attempt to indicate a distinction that would Iks natural between
the cane owned years before on which father's initials were engraved, and the
cane with the curved end that I had given him. If this were what the com
municator had in mind it would have been a very forceful choice of evidential
XLI.] 309
Appendix II.
incidents. Hence with the suspicion that the inquiry regarding the facte
needed to be pushed farther I wrote to my brother telling him what had
been said at the sitting, and asking that he, my stepmother and my sister
think the matter over and see if they did not recall the fact that father did
have a cane with his initials on it. I referred to what I had remembered
about the one given father by my brother and sister years ago. I asked also
further about the emphasis mentioned at the sitting. The replies are
unanimous in regard to the question of the curved cane and initials on it,
which were quite consistent with my expectations in the matter. I had
known of no such cane [Cf. p. 415], and the carving of his initials on it was
so inconsistent with my father's habits, as he never indulged in whittling or
carving of any kind, that I could not imagine its truth, though granting its
possibility. But the answers, one and all, state that he had no cane whatso
ever on which his initials were carved by himself, and that the curved cane
that I had sent him had not been touched in this way. In so far as regards
his use of the stick for emphasis there is not the same unanimity of opinion.
My stepmother says : " I never knew him to use his cane to emphasise his
words in conversation—was always deliberate." My brother wrote in his
first reply, which was mislaid, and found when the second letter was answered,
that he "never knew him to use his cane to emphasise his expression." In
the second letter he writes : " Neither mother [stepmother] nor I remember
him to have used his cane to emphasise his talk. But Henrietta says she
remembers distinctly that he did it at times, especially in animated conversa
tion. She is very positive about this. I remember [and my stepmother
says the same] that he often sat with his cane across his knees or resting
his hands and chin on it. But as to his using it to emphasise his talk I
cannot be positive, though like yourself I have a faint impression that he
did."
I may add that even if there were unanimity of opinion as to his
occasional emphasis of his conversation in the manner alluded to at the
sitting it could have little evidential value, because, as my stepmother
correctly remarks, father was usually so calm and deliberate in his conversa
tion and discussions that there was little temptation to resort to any forms
of emphasis of this kind, though my impression had been exactly that of my
sister, that in the occasional animated talks in which he sometimes engaged he
did emphasise himself in this way. But it was not a habit or characteristic
of him as it perhaps is of myself, and so could not be used as evidence of
identity. It has been necessary, on account of this characteristic in myself,
to push the inquiry on this point to the end, because the question of
telepathy between my mind and the medium, at any distance, is concerned in
the matter, though in that case there is no excuse for allusion to either a
curved cane with initials on it, nor to any other with such initials, for I
own no curved cane, never carried any whatsoever until a few years ago,
when I cut two in the mountains and had them made up. But there is
nothing in the communications that would apply to me except the tendency
to emphasise with a cane when talking in an animated way while carrying it.
—J. H. H.] [See p. 57, and Notes 35, p. 415, and 92, p. 533.]
James. [The hand was apparently listening to Sp., and I turned to
arrange some sheets of paper on the floor.]
400 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Look friend . .' .
do you wish to go to the College this A. M. If so I will remain here
. . U D.
[The hand between each word of the first sentence above stopped writing
and made a turn, somewhat like the motion that the hand would make in
wiping once round the bottom of a basin ending palm up.]
(Rector, now, in this way ?) Wait [ ?] [Hand turns to Sp., then tome.]
(Rector, that way T) [I read the sentence over, imitating the movements
of the hand.] Yes, (With a twirl of the stick ?) nervously.
This is almost identical with his gestures . . gestures [JesturesJ.
He is amused at our description, friend, and seems to vaguely U D our
imitation.
Draws it across his so-called knee, lets it fall by his side, still holding on
to the turned end . . drawers . . draws . . d R A W S . . end.
Hears sounds of music, to which he listens attentively, with the exception
of keeping time with the smaller end of his stick . . attentively . .
att . . at . .
Do you hear me 1
[I thought here that the hand continued listening to Sp., but it had
apparently turned to me for some remark.] [See Notes 36, p. 416, and 92,
p. 533.]
Speak to him, friend, and ask him anything thou dost wish, he seems
at a loss to U D what is required of him at this instant.
(Mr. Hyslop, I have a letter to you from James.) Yes. Will he speak to
me? (He has sent it to me to read to you.) Oh, friend, do so as it will
assist us very much in trying to keep his mind clear. (Yes, he
says . . . ) Slowly (He writes as follows :) [I here begin to read the
following letter :]
" New York, February 2Ut, 1899.
"Mv iiear Father,—I have been very glad to receive the messages
which you are sending me with the help of Rector and through my friend
Hodgson. I hope you will make your mind perfectly clear and free. Tell
me first about any of your earthly experiences that are most frequently on
your mind. I have many of them in my mind, and shall be glad for you to
talk to me about them or any other things that are passing through your
thoughts about your old friends and neighbours, your experiences with them,
your home and its life, and all with whom you were most intimate. I shall
be glad to hear about them. I remember when you took me to the station
to start to college. Do you remember how you felt then ? Do you remember
the college to which you sent me at that time ! I remember it so well, and
the way I had to go to reach it. I remember, too, how aunt Nannie used to
care for us when we were young. It was soon after that I started to the
High School to prepare for college. Do you remember this and all that
occurred at and about that time ? Tell me all about your dear friends then
and afterward. I remember, too, how we used to go to church. Do you
recall this, and how we managed it ! Tell my friend Hodgson, and I shall be
very glad to learn it from him and to do all that I can to help you. If there
is anything that troubles you tell Hodgson about it, and he will send it to
me. I hope thus to hear from you often, and shall take pleasure in listening
XLI.] 401
Appendix II.
to all that you can tell me about yourself and old associates both at home
and in the church.—Your affectionate son,
J. H. Hvsi.op.
[After "Do you remember how you felt then !"]
Yes 1 do, trell. At the parting. It was one of the most hopeful of my
life. And do you remember what I said to you then ? Write, as I cannot
see you often if . . be . . . and . .
[Pause] repeat slowly, his thoughts are clearing a little.
(James says . . .)
I have it. Write often as I shall be with you constantly in thought,
James. This is the starting point in your life. Take advantage of it,
improve your time, let me know how you are getting on daily and keep up a
stout heart. Want for nothing. Keep to the right, be just in all things.
U D . . improve . . I . . (Yes.) [read over.]
Yes, and I shall be lonely enough, but I look forw . . lonely . . look
forward to the future.
I think, friend, he has nearly the words, as he seems very clear abend
it. R.
[Tins passage alleging to be what father felt and said to me when parting
from me at the station as I started to college is a very good reproduction of
what he felt and said, except the statement " want nothing," which his
pocket-book would not have justified him in saying, as the phrase is
usually understood, though it is literally what he did say. But correct as the
drift is, it cannot be quoted as evidence, as it is just what any brain could
concoct. If any specific incident of the occasion had been mentioned I
might give some weight to the accuracy of the sentiment.—J. H. H.]
(Very good. Shall I go on ?) [Cross.]
Yes, wait just a moment.
[I continue reading the letter. After "I remember, too, how we used to
go to church : " the hand bends down on table for a few moments. Prayer !]
[After end of letter.]
God bless you, my son. Do you remember this expression. Yes I do
remember.
[The phrase was a common one with him whenever we parted.—J. H. H.]
I wish you to know that to me James was all I could ask for a son, and
when I left him or he left me I was heart-broken in one sense, but I felt that
I had much to look forward to. [Perfectly accurate. The only occasion on
which I ever saw him shed team, December 10th, 1899.—J. H. H.]
I remember the coach very well, and the roughness of the roads and
country. I also remember Aunt Nannie and her motherly advice to you all,
and I look back to her with a great gratitude for her kindness to us all. Do
you remember Ohio, James [not read] sounds like Ohio [not read] O . . .
{jj$lQ5L/ (O). OHIO., and anything about Bartlett. I have not
seen him yet, but hope to in time. I am trying to think of the principal of
your school and what he said to me about George. I am still troubled about
him, and if you can help me in any way to se . . . by sending me any
thing encouraging about him, I shall feel better I know.
(Yes, I will write this of course to James.)
2 D
402 [PART
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
This, James, is the one thing I wish to right if possible, and perhaps you
will be able to help me.
(Yes, I am sure that James will do all that is best about George. Don't
worry about him.)
Well, if you can help me free my mind in regard to him and his life I can
be freer and reach you clearer. I am much troubled about this, and I have
been praying for all to come out right. You will join me in this I know.
(I will, indeed. I will help all I can, by prayer and telling James. You
can speak quite freely and unburden yourself completely.)
Oh, if I can only do this in this one thing I will not be disturbed more.
(Yes. Do free your mind.)
You see, I left with this on my mind, and I cannot dispose of it until I
have learned from James that he will not feel troubled in this regard. We
had our own thoughts and anxieties together regarding this . . this .
this as J [ ! ] and Aunt Nannie also.
(Do you mean she was anxious with you !) \ Assent] he says yes.
[This whole passage, started by the reference to going to church which I
had made in my letter, is in many respects a very remarkable one, though it
will not appear so evidential as is desired. But the expression, " God bless
you, my son," is just what might be started in his mind by my referring to
the memory of going to church, especially if we assume what is here claimed
to be the fact : namely, that the mind is not clear. But passing (his aside as
useless beyond the fact that it was his natural expression, though perhaps
cqually natural to most mediums, the more striking incidents begin with the
remembrance of the coach and " the roughness of the roads and country."
The use of the word "coach" is not natural for father, as he did not use it,
but always spoke of such a vehicle in the country as a carriage. " Coach "
was a specific term for the vehicle of that name used in the cities. But
when I wrote my letter to Dr. Hodgson I had in mind just the conditions
here described—the rough country roads- though I thought specially of the
alternative riding and walking which father, my brother and myself had to
do when it was too rough to take the carriage. I wanted to see if I could
call out some such facts and the place to which we went. The main object
was the latter, which would have been absolutely conclusive to any one who
would read the facts. It is not less remarkable to find my aunt Nannie
appreciatively mentioned in this connection, as she was associated with this
period of our lives, and father had every reason to be grateful to her for her
kindness. My mother died in 1869, and Aunt Nannie came to keep house
for father, as she was his sister, and there were six of us to be cared for. I
was the oldest and only fifteen years old. She attended the United
Presbyterian Church, to which father did not belong, and sometimes the
necessity of getting her to her own church at one place and the rest of us
to ours at another was an additional reason for our going with father on
horseback. We took but one horse and alternately rode and walked. But
usually the reason for this was the roughness of the roads and the necessity
of walking at times to keep warm. When the weather permitted we took
horses enough for all of us. The roads were terribly rough. This was
long before the turnpikes were made, and the roads have been good in
that region for twenty-five years, so that the mention of the rough roads
XLI.] Appendix II.
is pertinent in the extreme for the time indicated. They were not rough
in Indiana, whither he moved in 1889. It should be remarked that the
statements were made when I was not present, and that this is the first
reference to specific facts in the State mentioned.
The perturbed state of mind indicated in regard to my brother George is
very interesting, and pertinent. The reference contains the thoughts of
several years, and might be construed to apply also to many anxieties that
he felt about him in connection with my brother's care of father's property
in the northern part of the State of Ohio. But the immediate time to which
this mention of him in connection with the principal of the school has refer
ence is an earlier period than the care of my father's property, though
closely connected with it in other relations than time, and what it means will
be seen when I have called special attention to the wonderful accuracy of the
reference to Ohio. This was his native State which he did not leave until
1889, and this is the first definite reference to it. It is perfectly coincident
with the mention of the roads and their roughness and the thought of my
aunt Nannie, whom I had suggested, and who had not been with him for over
twenty years. The transition to my brother is so abrupt that I can under
stand it only as suggested by our going to church together, and this brings up
all the memories connected with our lives. The name "Bartlett" when
I first read it seemed to me to be a part of the nonsense of these experiments.
But when I re-read the record it occurred to me that it was the name of the
township in which my brother lives. But on examination of a legal paper
connected with the property in that township, of which I am an executor,
the name is slightly different, though nearly like this, and if we allow for the
disturbance that might be caused by the difference of time between thinking
the sentences and writing them with the fact that the use of the word
"yet" in the next sentence might have determined the writing of the last
letters of the name "Bartlett," we conjecture a possible importance in this
word of very considerable evidential value. If the word had been
" Bartlow " it would have been almost overwhelming in its suggestiveness,
and this in spite of the irrelevancy about not having seen him yet. But
thinking that father might have known such a man and corresponded with
him aboutthe northern land, as my brother George was here mentioned, I
took the occasion to ask my aunt Nannie, the only one likely to know
anything about it, as she was closely associated with father in the ownership
of this land, whether she knew of any such person and the possibility of
ather's connection with him especially re this land. Her reply is : "As for
your question I never knew your father to have any dealings with a man by
the name of Bartlett, either in connection with the northern land or any
place else. I would have known if he had any connection with the land."
This strengthens the supposition that the name is an attempt to mention the
name of the township, Bartlow, but it makes it more difficult to explain the
irrelevance about his not seeing him, though true if it was a man he had in
mind. I also suspected that Dr. Hodgson had not read the original rightly,
and without telling him what it ought to be, as above indicated, I wrote him
to send me the other possible readings of the original automatic writing. He
sent me the original in answer to my inquiry, and there is only one reading
possible for it, and this is the one given, namely : " Bartlett." But putting
2 L. 2
J. H. Hyshrp, Pli.D. [part
together what I know of my father's anxiety about my brother both at the
time indicated in the next sentence and afterward, there is good reason for
suspecting an attempt, though it be a mere automatism, to give the name of
the township in which my brother lives. And this all the more if we
suppose it an attempt to indicate in this way what is forgotten or could not
be named in regard to the town itself. To see its possible pertinence1 let mo
show how any one might utter this when the name of the town is forgotten
but the name of the township remembered. Let it stand as follows. " Do
you remember Ohio, James, Bartlow township?" This is,
of course, all conjecture, but it is possible, especially as it connects the
mention of my brother, the two causes of mental anxiety here suggested,
and the time involved in the incidents that I know.
(If we suppose that there is a change in my father's thought after the
word Bartlett we can make the whole passage intelligible on the ground that
the words, ''I have not seen him yet," are explained by their reference to
the principal of the school mentioned in the sentence that follows them
This suggestion wonld meet the difficulties which I raised in the following as
well as in the previous paragraph. May 29th, 11)00.—J. H. H.)
Since writing the above comments on the name Bartlett, it has occurred
to me that another possible interpretation than the one 1 have given might
be made, especially on the hypothesis that what we get must be either
automatisms or mediumistic guessing. Father was very fond of Bartlett
pears, and indeed of pear culture, and had a large orchard of pear trees in
Ohio. As 1 said, he was very fond of the Bartlett pear, and tried to succeed
in its culture, but his whole effort at pear culture failed. But it is only the
assumption that we are dealing with automatisms that justifies this far
fetched interpretation, and as the supposition that it refers to such a fact
would involve a time in his life somewhat separated from the time connected
with the other events considered here it is not to be considered as either
suggestive or important, but only one of those coincidences which should be
mentioned for the benefit of critics and sceptics of this work. No interpre
tation that I can put on it, considering the sentence after it, can make it
perfectly clear that any of the possible meanings mentioned is true. It is
the large number of coincidental glimpses into events that are so pertinent
to the case that gives the passage its force. There may, then, be no excuse
for even a possible reference to "Bartlett" pears except the hypothesis of
automatisms from a real spirit, which looks too much hke an attempt to see
spiritism at all hazards in the case. But as mediumistic guessing could as
well explain such a conception as automatism we cannot purloin a spiritistic
interpretation for the sake of even making out a possible case. The context
favours either a nonsensical automatism or the interpretation given in the
main part of my notes.
It was my father's intention to send my brother also to college, and he
had him at the high school after I started to college. At first my brother
applied himself to his studies as vigorously as I had ever done. But the last
year or more he gave up much of his time and interest to social life. His
abilities were sufficient to enable him to do this without endangering his
graduation. But my father was afraid that this tendency would grow if my
brother went away from home to college, where ho was free from parental
XLI.] 405
Appendix II.
inspection and influence, and my father went to the principal (this
is the only word he would use) of the high school and talked the
whole matter of my brother and his work over with his teacher,
and came to the conclusion that he would not send him to college.
Afterward he talked the matter over with me, and I urged him to
try it, but he was inexorable, though it was a bitter trial for him
to refuse it. It will be seen then that the reference here is particularly
pertinent and is naturally associated in the state of mind it repre
sents with the lifelong interest and frequent anxieties he had about him.
The mention of this incident here also explains what he always had in mind
in life when defending my brother against any derelictions of duty regarding
the care of the property. My brother went out to a perfect wilderness, and
where there was no chance for civilised and cultivated persons like himself
to get any proper social satisfaction, and though father lost some money in
the venture, the hard work of my brother and the sacrifices that his life
involved in that region, after his high school education, always induced
father not only to pardon what he would have reprehended in a stranger
more severely, but also to apologise for him when any one else complained
about him. But with all his generosity and charity he was constantly
worried with the affairs connected with the northern land, and often referred
to my brother's education and sacrifices when we wrote or spoke of the
affairs out there.
The expressed desire that I should not be troubled about him is also
pertinent, as he knew how many times I had been obliged to use his
mediation in order to get my own affairs attended to at all. He always did
his utmost to keep me from misunderstanding the situation, and I have no
doubt that he worried more than I knew about, though I do know how my
stepmother and aunts talked about the matter. The mention of aunt
Nannie again in this connection at the close is also very pertinent. It was
she with whom he most frequently corresponded about this property,
especially as she had by far the larger interest in it. She has often mentioned
to me their correspondence on the management of things there, and I do
not know a more suggestive fact anywhere, taken with the others, than this
singular reference to her, as having a common knowledge and anxiety
regarding my brother George.
On the whole I must consider this passage a strong evidential set of inci
dents, though some of the gaps have to be filled in from my own memory, or
even pieced out by tolerant interpretation. It is not as definite or objective
as is desirable, and so cannot impress the reader as forcibly as it does myself,
since no one else can see the personal pertinence of the references and
incidents as I can see them, though I think I have made tolerably clear the
possibilities of their pertinence.—J. H. H.]
Now, friend, I would advise thee to get some answer from this gentle
man's son, saying he will let nothing disturb him concerning this, and give it
to his father here, which will once and for all clear his thoughts of it.
He has gone for a moment.
Thou wilt see there was some special anxiety . . special . . in
regard to this when he left thy world U D. (Yes. I understand.) Since his
son would help him, he can do . . would help him in . . this by saying
406 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
it shall not trouble him. R. (Yes. I understand.) 1 seldom see a more
devoted father than he is . . devoted . . and James is his favourite son.
Yes, I will tell you more of . . of . . Messenger when I feel
stronger. [The word Messenger has no significance for me. We might con
jecture that some confusion may have arisen in connection with "some
messenger " on the "other side." (Cf. p 469) (May 29th, 1900).—J. H. H.]
I wish to remind you of all. Did you remind James of my cap ? (Yes.
He does not remember it.) Not remember it ? Ask Nannie. [As later de
velopments show, I regard this as Rector's mistake for Maggie, the name of
my stepmother. (Cf. pp. 336, 387) (January 8th, 1900).—J. H. H.] (Yes,
he will doubtless make every inquiry.)
You see I was in the West far from him for some time, and my habits of
dress and my doings may not be known to him, but the rest may remember
if he does not. (Yes, was Nannie with you ?) Yes. (Perhaps Nannie can tell
him.) Yes. I know. (Well, he will find all out eventually.)
I shall 'be glad of this, because I am doing my best to recall everything.
I cannot remain longer now, but I will come again ere long, and recall more
concerning the boyhood days of my children. Good-bye, thank you. (Good
bye, thank you. I will next time bring you what James says.) Well, does he
not recall my desk and odds and ends I am going. I cannot remain.
+ Friend, it would be useless to hold him longer. (Yes.)
[This continued reference to his cap is interesting, and this time it comes
within the reach of possibilities. I said in a note the first time it was men
tioned in my last sitting on the 27th of December, that I knew of no such
cap, and did not think it possible that he ever wore one. My note on the
second mention of it explained a further attempt to get at some meaning to it.
I had before this, and after returning home from my sittings, written to my
stepmother asking her if father had ever worn a cap. The following letter
which I received in reply I interpreted, as did my stepmother, to mean that
he was not in the habit of wearing a cap, and hence I treated the matter as
of no consequence. Several other questions were answered in the same
letter and I quote from it. "Your note of January 2nd and 3rd received
to-day and in answer to your inquiries I will say, first, your father never
wore a cap since we were married except once, and that was during very cold
weather in '95. He was in the habit of sleeping with his head covered in the
bedclothes, said his head was cold on top. I thought it was bad for him to
breathe that way, and made a knit cap for him to wear in bed, but it would
not stay on, and he never wore it more than one night. Never wore a cap
of any kind in daytime."
I took this as sufficient to condemn the reference, but it has occurred to
me since this frequent reference to the cap that the wish in life to have some
covering for his head, which was very bald and which suffered from the cold,
might here crop up as an automatism. This possible interpretation is borne
out here by the very pertinent allusion to his separation from me for some
time in the West. This is correct, and I think my correspondence with my
stepmother shows me sufficiently ignorant of many of his things and habits.
This reference to Nannie is interesting, especially as he does not say " aunt "
in it. It is not pertinent to her at all, but if the name were correct it would
make the incident very evidential, as can be seen from the contents of the
XLI.] 407
Appendix II.
letter just quoted. The use of "aunt" in several references containing the
name Nannie and the omission of it in the two or three cases where my step
mother is concerned suggests that Rector did not catch the name l ightly. The
right name may come out later, and if so it will explain this inadvertence. (Cf.
pp. 47, 69 -74). In the meantime the correctness of the allusion to the separ
ation between us in connection with the recognition that I do not remember the
cap is an interesting fact when I am told to ask one about it whose name might
be mistaken in this complex process for that of my stepmother.—J. H. H.]
[Further inquiry shows that the cap was a black one, as said in the com
munication (p. 387). (January 10th, 1900.)—J. H. H.]
We UD from him that there was a lapse [laps] of a few years between
[betweene] the meeting of himself and his son. We will learn all from him
in time. R.
(Yes. I think it will not be wise at present to ask any special questions).
[Strong dissent.] .
Not, friend, we desire not. When we are sure of his state of mind we
will allow thee to ask anything.
(Yes, and about the medicines, I will not ask any more about that. If you,
Rector, know, and can tell me, well and good, but otherwise, of course,
leave it until he gets clearer. He does not even yet seem to me to be nearly
as clear as I thought he was going to be, and I see that it will probably be
some time yet.)
Ah, yes, we do not realise fully thy time, but we know one thing, and
that is that he will be as [sheet turned] as clear as Mr. W. in a little while.
(Well, Mr. W. has done well.) He will repeat all as well as he, but he was
a very ill mail, and rather advanced in thy life. (Elderly ?) [Correct.]
Yes, and has many things going through his mind here, which we are
unable at present to clear for him, yet time alone with our help will do this
can do this.
Friend, it takes more light than anything else, and we are at times pray
ing ourselves for help.
Friend, we are in a short time going to meet thee for at least four succes
sive days for Hyslop, and until then we will only meet thee occasionally, and
do what we can for him . . for him. (Very good.)
*****
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
II.
There's Mr. Hyslop and Mr. Hodgson. They've just met. Tell him I've
just found him. * * * [Inarticulate, borderline between II and I.]
I.
Be better now.
I see you are.
That's Mrs. Hodgson and the children.
I want to .... I want to fly.
There's Imperator. Friend.
They took—they closed the opening right up.
All the veil is taken off and all the light is gone.
I feel stiff enough.
You hear my head snap, don't you !
408 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Latest Notes to Appendix II. ; Sittings from Febrvarv 7th
to 22nd, 1890.
Short Beach, August 9th, 1899.
Note 2ii. —Some time ago a suggestion occurred to me in the use of the
word "camp" in the above statements that permits a conjecture here that
illustrates what is possible in this rase, and it is not so violent a hypothesis
as the absurd one which I rejected in my first note because I was not willing
either to entertain or to state it. I do not hold that the one I am going to
state now is at all probable, but that, in consideration of the nature of these
communications, as already remarked in some interesting cases of confusion,
the supposition is either possible, or serves to show how near the actual truth
the statements are. The conjecture did not occur to me until I became more
or less aware of the fact that in these communications there was often an
associative connection between one message and the following. Having
remarked this, and noting how nearly the word "camp" was to being a
part of the name of a place. Champaign, which my father, mother, sister
Anna, an aunt, and myself visited on the trip out West alluded to just
below, I determined to ask the only person living who could know, whether
we had taken our trip to Chicago and the lake, which I remembered we took
as a fact at that time, after leaving this town. Her reply, that of the aunt
who accompanied us on that trip, received this morning, is that we went to
Chicago and the lake after leaving this town. My stepmother writes me
that father often talked to her of this very trip, mentioning the name of the
town whenever he alluded to the trip. The facts then in favor of interpreting
the reference as I conjecture it are as follows. (1) That it was in 1861. The
phrase "some years ago" may be taken as distinguishing between recent
and remoter events. (2) That the trip can properly be described as "a
change " or pleasure trip, though incidentally business connected with some
land was associated with the trip. This, however, concerned only some
fencing and minor mutters. (3) That we visited Lake Michigan and Chicago
at the time, making a special journey down to the lake shore while in the
city. (4) That the trip was made after we left Champaign, supposing that
there was some confusion here in getting the word Champaign, so that it
becomes "camp." (5) That father very often talked to my stepmother
about this trip. (fi) That the message about the trip is closely connected
with the direct mention of a " trip out West." (7) That the use of the word
" one " in this very next message about a trip out West ap]Kirently to distin
guish between more trips than one, several having been made previously on
business, is evidence of an associative nexus between the two messages. (8)
That the doubt expressed in the phrase "we or I" in the second message
and connected with the accident involves the same distinction as I have just
mentioned between the two communications. (9) That the very frequent
confusions in these messages which have an undoubted half significance at
least render the reconstruction possible, whatever we may think of its
probability.
But the facts against the interpretation are : (1) That we did not go to
the mountains in this or any other trip, but to the prairies in Illinois. (2)
That it was not after leaving any camp. It was after leaving Champaign.
xu.] 409
Appendix II.
In order that the reader may see how nearly the passage is to being
absolutely correct I may be allowed to reconstruct it somewhat with the
imaginary confusion that ends in " mountains " and " camp." If we assume
anything like the trouble that was manifest in the guitar incident (Cf.
p. 461) the following is conceivable. "I am thinking of the time some
years ago when I went into [Father says 'Illinois.' Rector does not under
stand this, and asks if he means 'hilly.' Father says, 'no ! prairies.'
Rector does not understand. Father says, 'no mountains.' Rector
understands this as 'No! Mountains.' and continues.] the mountains
for a change with him, and the trip we had to the lake after we left
[Father says, 'Champaign.' Rector understands 'camp,' and continues.]
the camp." The name of the town is usually pronounced Sluimpaue, and
according to my stepmother my father so pronounced it when living, though
my own recollection is that he often pronounced it Campane. But of course,
we do not know the various tendencies to error which occur in the trans
mission of such messages. Com1wre with this the mistakes of "New" for
"Ewen" (p. 631), "regicide" for " reconciler (p. 631), "idle" for "Italian"
(p. 631), "motion" for "emotions" (p. 629). " murder " for " weather "
(p. 631), "turnips" for "guantlets" (p. 627). I do not present the above
reconstruction, however, as probable, but only as an indication of what
is possible, and wish to be very cautious even in suggesting such speculative
possibility.
But the right to reconstruct such messages is at least illustrated, if not
justified, by such incidents as occurred in connection with Question 7. p. Bi0,
in my experiments on the Identification of Personality. (Cf. also pp. 608-
614.)—J. H. H.
New York, July 10th, 1899.
Note 27. —On June 27th I read these sittings over to my stepmother, my
sister, and my brother Frank, and found that several things which were
either not remembered before or were denied are true after all. This fact
came out in each case in an interesting way and without suggestion from me.
I assumed that the case was closed against the incidents, but the spontaneous
remarks of one or the other of the persons to whom I was reading the account
furnished information that I had neither expected nor asked for. In one or
two cases I asked a question, having forgotten what had been told me, and
got an answer which showed that the record was true. Of course my
questions by correspondence did not show the context and connection, and it
was natural that the incident whose confirmation or denial I sought should
be misunderstood. But when the whole narrative was seen the case became
quite different. Hence some of the statements now contradict those formerly
made. On cross-questioning my relatives and reminding them of their
former statements to the contrary, they still adhered to the last statements
and remarked that they had misunderstood the questions put to them before.
Moreover the incidents recalled were so minutely described that I could not
refuse the preference to the later narrative and confirmation. I had, of
course, to be very cautious about this as such a change of conviction is liable
to suspicion, but as the confirmation was against the natural prejudices and
disposition of my mother and sister I had only the danger of suggestion on
410 [hart
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
my own part to overcome, and in most cases at least this danger was avoided
by an indirect question and in some cases by receiving spontaneous state
ments that were not answers to my inquiries, but unexpected verifications of
the record, or confirmation of facts not clearly put in the record.
The first of these incidents was the one that was mentioned in the sitting
of February 8th to Dr. Hodgson, and this was immediately followed by
another of very considerable interest. I had asked my stepmother whether
father had any trouble with one of his eyes and received a negative reply,
but when I read the passage referring to the trouble in the left eye and
remarked that she had denied it before she said : " Well, I do not remember
this, but it was true that he had some trouble with it. He used often to
take off his spectacles and complain that there was something the matter with
the left eye. He would rub it and complain that he could not see with it.
But he never doctored for it." The fact is a priori probable, as I had noticed
the last few years of his life that the disease with which he suffered was
gradually making inroads upon various parts of his system.
When I read the passage about the " peculiar mark which you will recall,
etc." my stepmother made the same reply that she gave to my letter some
months before, but went on to say spontaneously and without suggestion or
further question from me, that father did have a mole on the left temple
near the ear and in front of it. I do not myself recall this, or that I ever
knew it. My father wore a beard, and this mark, which was a very slight
one, was not likely to be easily noticed, especially as I had seen him very
little since 187'J. The corroboration would be complete in this instance if it
had not been for the mistake of referring the mark to a place behind the ear.
But it is remarkably interesting to see two incidents, one strictly correct and
the other nearly so, in the same breath, as it were, and with the associative
unity that would be natural to one trying to prove his identity.—J. H. H.
Short Beach, Conn., July 25ffc, 18!M.
Note 28. —I have ascertained an interesting fact that shows the allusion
to morphine more nearly correct than my first note implies. On reading
father's letters over I find in that for April 27th, 1896, that father states to
me that he was taking strychnine and arsenic at the same time that he was
taking Hyomei. Now this arsenic is not morphine, but it is a poison that
was very closely associated in father's mind when living with the common
class of poisons, and it might be a natural mistake to make here in mention
ing it instead of arsenic. Of course, the evidential feature of the case is lost
in any event, but as a mistake it is more easily accounted for by the fact that
1 have mentioned than it would be on the supposition that it was more false
than it is. That is to say, it is more like a mistake of memory than a mistake
of fabrication.—J. H. H.
Note 29.—The second incident which unexpectedly turned out to have
considerable interest and importance related to the name Cooper. I had
referred to the name because I thought that, if Dr. Hodgson would get
the answer that I wanted (see sitting of .June 1st) the incident would try
telepathy very severely. But, as my notes show, I was not only ignorant of
XLI.] 411
Appendix II.
any relevance in the statements made by the communicator, but I did not
even remark that the communicator actually distinguished between the
Cooper that I had in mind and another whose name 1 either never knew or
had wholly forgotten. I merely read the passage to my stepmother and
remarked the absurdity of its pertinence to this Samuel Cooper, with which
she agreed, but, all unconscious of the light she was throwing on the record,
she said that father was a warm friend of Dr. Joseph Cooper, of Alleghany,
that he often spoke of him and that he probably had some correspondence
with him at one time. She distinctly recalls the last occasion on which my
father referred to him. It was one of the meetings of the United Presby
terian Assemblies, which father would attend when it met in his home city.
He pointed him out to her, but as they had grown widely apart in then-
religious views, which were always different, he did not speak to him at this
time. Unfortunately all my father's correspondence was destroyed about two
years ago, except such as pertained to his business affairs, and it is impossible
to corroborate the statement that he had corresponded with this Cooper on
religious matters. My two aunts do not remember either father's friendship
or his correspondence with the man. This is not surprising, because what
ever relations my father may have had with this Dr. Cooper occurred about
the time of the Union of 1858 when the United Presbyterian Church was
formed, and it was at that time my two aunts separated from father on
religious matters. This Dr. Cooper, I am told by one who knew him well and
who is a theologian of some rank in that church, was very conservative,
though more liberal than father. This would attract him to father on ques
tions connected with the union of the two churches, and I can conjecture
that the fact would give rise to father's desire to know how so conservative a
mind could go into the Union at that time. Father had intelligence enough
to worry any theologian very much if he was not strictly logical or sincere,
as many a one could testify. I have no doubt that if I could recover this
alleged correspondence, I would find that it related to questions connected
with that Union which father could not accept and whose acceptance he
could not understand in men professing the beliefs of Dr. Cooper. This Dr.
Cooper remained conservative in everything but the question of instrumental
music, and astonished and offended his old friends a short time before he died
by accepting the new tendency toward its introduction into church worship.
In the absence of testimony and correspondence, therefore, these facts may
indicate the possibility of correctness in the statements of the communicator,
especially when we discover, in a later sitting (p. 420) the pertinent refer
ence to a school which had been built as a memorial to this Dr. Cooper.
The allusion to " tokens" on February 22nd (p. 397) in connection with
the name Cooper has considerable interest. My father belonged to a small
denomination, the Associate Presbyterian, which practised what is called
" close communion" and hence used these tokens, little oblong metal pieces
of a coin-like character, to indicate the person's right to participate in the
dispensation of the bread and wine in the communion service. The
improbability that they should be mentioned by chance is clear from the
following facts :—
The denomination consists of about ten or twelve ministers and perhaps
not more than a thousand communicants. There are perhaps fifteen or
412 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
more separate congregations. There is not one of these east of the
Alleghany mountains. They are all in the Mississipi valley. One of the
best informed ministers in it wrote me that this denomination, the Associate
Presbyterian Church, was the only one in this country that used these
tokens in communion services, others that were conservative using only
certificates or cards. " Open communion " is the general practice and hence
certificates even are limited to one or two denominations.
The tokens are placed in the hands of an elder or member of the
" Session " for safe-keeping in the interval between communion services,
and there are not more than fifteen or twenty persons in the United States
of whom it can be said that they have had these tokens. My father was an
elder in this church and was always entrusted with the keeping of them.
When the little congregation to which he belonged in Xenia, Ohio, of
perhaps not more than twenty or twenty-five members, was disintegrated by
the death or emigration of its members, father kept these tokens in a little
chamois skin bag, and I obtained them as mementos after his death.
The most interesting part of the reference to them, however, consists in
their connection with the name Cooper. The use of tokens was never
considered as essential to religious belief or practice. l?ut those who still
clung to their use did so on the specific ground that the abandonment of
them would relax allegiance to the more important features of religious
ceremony. A good many questions of this sort were warmly discussed in
the settlement of the terms of union between the Associate Presbyterian and
the Associate Reformed Churches to form the United Presbyterian Church
in 1858, which my father declined to enter, owing to his conservative beliefs.
If father ever had any correspondence with this Dr. Joseph Cooper, it was at
this time and most probably concerned such questions as are implied in the
use of tokens. Father and Dr. Cooper differed on these matters, as is
indicated by the different directions which they took in their action at the
time. It is therefore very pertinent here to see the mention of these tokens
in connection with a name that was very prominently associated with the
controversies that were terminated by the formation of the United Presby
terian Church.—J. H. H.
Note 30.—Since ascertaining the relevance of the statements with refer
ence to this Cooper, from the standpoint of the communicator, I may alter
the judgment previously expressed of some of the statements (p. 386).
The reference to the "accident" as soon as the name was given him is
pertinent enough, though it is not remembered by the only person who can
testify on the matter, my stepmother, whether any accident interrupted
their journey on the occasion when they visited the West together. But it
must be recalled that an accident had been mentioned in connection with
some trip out West, so that any name that would suggest the West to the
mind of the communicator might very well recall the incident of the
accident, whether it ever took place or not.
It will be apparent also that the allusion to "the old friend of mine in
the West " takes on a new possibility in the light of the general relevance of
the message. It cannot be said that this Dr. Cooper lived in the West from
the standpoint of my father in his lifetime, because it was east of him that
XLI.] 413
Appendix II.
Dr. Cooper lived. It could be true as stated only from the standpoint of the
place of the communications, and this is hardly allowable except by straining
the interpretation. But if the communication is incomplete, the statement
might be connected with an attempt to speak of the Cooper School, an
attempt, however, which did not succeed until a later sitting (p. 420). This
was " in the West," but whether an imperfect message or not, the association
of the name West with Cooper, in the light of the facts explained, is natural
enough, even if confused and dreamy, so that I can recall the remark that it
might be a mediumistic trick.—J. H. H.
Note 31.—The next incident pertains to the hymn, " Nearer, my God, to
Thee," on which I commented as opposed to the supposition that I was deal
ing with my father. I was explaining the absurdity of the incident and
pointing out that it, with some others, was flatly against the spiritistic
theory, as I read the record to my stepmother, when she emphatically
agreed, and spontaneously remarked to confirm my judgment, all uncon
scious that she was overthrowing it, that this hymn was especially disliked
by father and that he very often expressed this dislike, remarking that he
could not understand how orthodox people could use a Unitarian hymn. I
was absolutely ignorant of this fact, and though I knew we had sung Moody
and Sankey hymns for secular diversion to which father was not opposed,
thinking, in spite of his objections to hymns, that they were better for
secular enjoyment than the usually vulgar songs of the neighbourhood, yet
I do not recall singing this specific hymn and certainly have not the slightest
recollection of his prejudice against it. My stepmother's statement is abso
lutely news to me. But it gives decided pertinence to the incident and
overthrows my objection to it, and gives unity to the ideas connected with
the mention of Wesleyan Methodists a few moments before. Of course
mediumistic associations could account for this association, but it would
hardly account for the extraordinary pertinence of the allusion to this par
ticular hymn.—J. H. H.
Note 32. —Having observed some traces in the record of statements
which were probably mere thoughts or intentions in the life of the com
municator, and having ascertained from my stepmother that father had
never used any of Munyon's Catarrh Remedies, it occurred to me to ask her
on this visit whether father had ever talked about Munyon's catarrh
medicine, and the answer was that he had often mentioned his intention
to get it, having seen it advertised in one of the Philadephia papers. But
he never bought it nor used it. It will be apparent, then, that there is at
least a half pertinence in the incident, at least sufficient to prevent it from
having a direct negative value.
To verify this statement that possibly father had seen an advertisement of
Munyon's Catarrh Remedy in the Philadelphia paper which I knew he took
I examined the columns of this paper for the years 1895 and 189(i, the
period covering the serious nature of his illness, but I did not find a single
advertisement of this medicine. I found, however, three advertisements of
well-known catarrh remedies, Aerated Medication, Johnston's Liniment, and
414 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Hyomei. These were advertised iu a very conspicuous manner, and it is
more than probable that they were seen and talked over between my father
and stepmother. In fact it is possible that the impulse to try the Hyomei
may have been awakened by the advertisements in this paper, and it is also
possible that my mother's memory errs only in regard to the particular
advertisement about which they talked, since my brother is very positive
that father did see an advertisement of Munyon's Catarrh Remedy in a
circular, and not in this paper. Munyon's Catarrh Remedy has been widely
advertised in various ways. If my brother's memory can be trusted, and my
stepmother thinks him correct about it, the conjecture regarding the possi
bility that we have an automatism here somewhat like the expression, "Give
me my hat and let me go," has its conceivability.—J. H. H.
New York, Novetnber 8th, 1899.
Note 33. —In order to ascertain all the probabilities in this matter and
test the accuracy of my brother's memory as against the proved mistake of
my stepmother, I wrote to the Munyon Company asking whether they had
ever distributed circular advertisements of their Catarrh Remedy over the
West, and in particular the .State of Indiana. I was careful to explain that
I had no wish to pry into private business matters, but only to test the
memory of a person who said that they had done so. The reply is as
follows :—
Philadelphia, November Uh, 1899.
Prof. J. H. Hvsi.op, Columbia University, N.Y. City.
Dear Sin, —We are in receipt of your favour, and beg to reply that we do
not care to answer your questions, as we never furnish information in regard
to our business methods outside our office. We regret that we are unable to
afford you this courtesy, and remain, very sincerely yours,
Diet, by H. H. C. Munvon's H. H. R. Co.
W.
The only facts of weight in the case are that my stepmother remembers
distinctly enough that father had talked of getting this medicine, and that
my brother confirms this fact, while the memories of the two are at variance
about the source of the suggestion to father, with a preference for my
brother's memory in my judgment, especially as the advertisements in the
paper mentioned by my stepmother pertained to his disease and could easily
be confused in her memory with the one she here alludes to. The ease is
therefore at least sufficiently indeterminate to prevent the use of it for the
theory of fabrication. —J. H. H.
Note 34.—I found also in the sitting of February 20th that the allusion to
a round and a square bottle was less false than my original note indicates.
My stepmother still insisted that he kept no such bottle as a square one on
his desk. My sister did not remember anything of the kind, but my brother
Frank, who was at home at that time, says emphatically and without positive
contradiction by either of the other two that father kept beside his round
nk bottle also a square mucilage bottle on his writing desk. But none of
XLI.] *15
Appendix II.
them remember whether he put his spectacle case on this desk beside the
bottles. They do emphatically say that he did not keep the tin spectacle
case there, and that it was not his custom to use the other leather case very
frequently. He may have put it on this desk at times. —J. H. H.
[Further inquiries while reading the proofs also show that my father had,
and quite constantly used, a writing pad, my first inquiry having been mis
understood from the way I put it. Also, there were a number of little
"rests," not exactly pigeon holes but shelves, so to speak, in the desk, and
on one of these the writing pad was kept when not in use. There also were
placed the various odds and ends, among them the usual implements and
material of a desk (i./. p. 379). No one seems to remember whether father
ever placed the paper cutter or knife on these "rests," but only that he
carried it in his vest pocket. But as it was given him solely for opening
letters, and as he indisputably left everything else, hardly excepting the
leather spectacle case, on these "rests," it is possible that he often left the
paper knife there with his letters and pen. (June 11th, 1900.) J. H. H.]
Note 35.—The incident about the cane or "stick" mentioned in the
sitting of February 22nd, especially when compared with that in the sitting
of June 8th, appears to have considerable interest. Without asking any
questions at all about it, I happened to see standing in the corner of the
room an old walking stick which had been broken and then mended with a
tin "ring" about it. I asked if this had been father's cane, and received
an affirmative reply. I asked how it had been broken, and was told by my
brother Frank that the break was caused by prying with it. The tin sheath
about the stick to about four inches long. The cane was a curved handled
one that had been given father by his brother-in-law, who had lost the
straight ebony cane with the initials on it that had been given him by us
children. But unless we allow for confusion in the effort to indicate what
walking stick was meant in this case and for omissions in the communication,
there is some discrepancy between this incident and the statement made on
June 8th. If we can suppose father to have made the attempt to distinguish
between the ebony cane and the curved one I gave him, on the one hand, and
between the two curved canes on the other, the incidents obtain a most
extraordinary interest and importance. This broken cane I had, no doubt,
known at one time before it was broken, and also I must have known that it
was broken, because my aunt gave me the money to buy the one I gave him,
telling me that the one he was using was broken. But I had not seen it in
this broken condition, and had absolutely forgotten what I had been told
about it.
A little reconstruction will show how nearly right the sentence is in which
the statement is made about carving his initials on the curved cane. This
cane was given him by his brother-in-law for the straight one with his initials
on it given to him by us children and lost by this brother-in-law. If then
the sentence had read : " Do you remember the stick I used to carry with
the turn in the end, which was given me for the one on which my initials
were carved in the end ? " it would have expressed the exact truth very clearly,
as my story shows, and there would have been no confusion about it .—J.H. H.
416 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Note 36.- I was for a long time very much puzzled by the description
of various movements attributed to my father in connection with the cane.
From one expression I supposed that there might be a reference to the act
of breaking it. But as this would not apply to all the incidents I had to
abandon the supposition. I therefore instituted more careful inquiries into
father's habits in the use of the cane and ascertain that the various state
ments may have immediate applicability to incidents well calculated to
establish identity. The " thumping down," indicated by Rector's manner,
may apply to father's actual use of this cane to call my stepmother by
pounding it on the floor. He could not speak above a whisper, and if she
were in the kitchen he could not make her hear in any other way, and as he
could scarcely walk, owing to locomotor ataxy, it was the easiest way to
attract her attention. There is, perhaps, some possibility that the allusion
to a movement, described by Dr. Hodgson as like the motion of the hand
in wiping out a basin, may refer to a playful trick of my father when he
was in the mood for it. He would hook the handle of the cane about my
stepmother's arm or neck and watch her try to extricate herself. The cane
would naturally drop on the floor when she succeeded. His cane was con
stantly in his hands and he used to roll or draw it across his knees. He was
also in the habit of keeping time with it to music, and when in meditation
on some subject. There is thus much in his habits to suggest some pertinence
in these apparent allusions to them. They were habits entirely unknown to
me.—J. H.H.
XLI.] 417
Appendix III.
APPENDIX III.
This Appendix contains the records of my eight sittings on
May 29th, 30th, 31st, June 1st, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th, 1899, together
with contemporary notes. The sittings were arranged for as indicated
in the following :—
[Rector writing. Sitter, R. H.]
May \%th, 1899.
* * * (Then Hyslop is coming to this vicinity in the body, and he is
very anxious to have as many times as possible. He can be present con
veniently the four after the second Sabbath, and there are earthly reasons
which would make those times desirable for him if possible, and . . .)
[Hand turns to talk with Sp.] (Shall . . .) [Cross in air.] (And he
would like to resume with you again on the week after that, so that he might
have perhaps as many as ten times altogether. Then . . . ) [Hand again
talks with Sp.]
(Further, there is one lady whom you mentioned . . . ) [Hand
points to previous sheets to indicate their reference to this.] (and laid aside
. . . ) [Hand assents.] (and she, Mrs. , informs me that she expects
to be here next week. I suppose that she could be present on the fifth or
sixth after Sabbath if necessary as she goes away again after.) [Hand assents
strongly.]
He will arrange to meet Hyslop on the first four after second Sabbath.
No other must interfere between our meetings with him. (Good.)
He will arrange for him on the first four after third also +. (Good.)
He hath especially given mention to ... of [attempt to write of
above to.] his desire to meet him through me to Mrs. D. Hast thou not yet
received this desire ! (Yes, Mrs. D., or rather perhaps G., mentioned that
at his mother's sitting you stated your expectation of meeting him shortly.)
+ Well. We now arrange this for him as previously stated. * * *
Expi.anation of Notes.
The Notes marked Introduction and placed just before the detailed
record of each sitting and representing also a record of facts previous
to the trance and the beginning of the writing, were written, as
indicated by the dates, immediately on my return from the sittings,
and usually from notes taken at the time.—J. H. H.
June 1th, 1899.
2 K
418 [PAKT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Introduction.
I noticed the usual physical indications of the on-coming trance
which it is not necessary to detail here, further than to say that the
change in the expression of the face compared with the normal condi
tion seemed very marked. There was what might be called a very
slightly bloated appearance to the face, the face looking less muscular,
as if having less tonicity, though not in any way swollen. The lips
and mouth were slightly drawn as the trance approached. The cough
which at first seemed to trouble Mrs. P. lost its tendency to manifest
itself, as if the trance condition relieved her throat of irritation, and it
wholly disappeared when the trance was completed. There were
several occasions in the on-coming trance when the eyes assumed a
fixed and upward gaze until the lids began to droop. There was a
slight twitching in the muscles of the cheek and hand, in the latter, as
usual, before the writing began.—J. H. H.
These and the incorporated notes were made during the evening
after the sitting, so that they are contemporaneous.—J. H. H.
May 29th, 1899.
Record of Sitting, May 1899.
Prof. J. H. H. and R. H.
[Rector writes.]
HAIL. (R. H. : Hail, Imperator.) Peace to thee, and all will be br
we would have it. Blessings on thee. +. We meet thee this day with
peace and joy. All hail. Welcome, friend. Good news to thee we bring
and . . . quiet with one and all. [Hand bows as in prayer.]
I am here and glad I am to see your face once more. If I fail in my
memory think not for me, but let me think my thoughts, and they willcome
to me in time, past memories one and all.
Friend, we will have a word with thee after he hath gone.
[While R. H. is writing, the hand listens to S., who touches R. H. to
draw his attention to it.] (R. H. to S. : Say something.)
(Good morning, father, is this you T) [Excitement in hand.]
Yes. I. Yes, James, it is I your father. Was it malt [malt not deciphered
immediately] you wished me to think about . . . how are you once
more and is all well with .
[R. H. asks about word after " was it."]
Was it malt you . . . M a 1 1 1 N E you . . .
[This allusion to Maltine here is very singular, whether any explanation
or significance be given it or not. The allusion to it seems to imply that it
was one of the medicines which I had asked for at an earlier sitting. But
while it is a medicine with which I am familiar, and which I have often used
myself, it was not what I asked for, nor was it among the medicines which
my father used for his disease. But the singular fact is that I had sent the
spectacle case and contents to Dr. Hodgson in an old Maltine box, and this
XLl.] 419
Appendix III.
box was on the floor out of which the spectacle case was taken a moment
afterward.—J. H. II.] [See Note 37, p. 497.]
I am still with you and I have much to say. Go on. I am more free
now . . free now. Give me something.
[R. H. opens parcel and puts spectacle case on table and opens it so as to
expose contents.]
I long to reach you clearer, nearer. Did you hear me speaking to you ?
(Yes, I hear you speaking.) Do not go more to that place. I am not there.
I am not there and you cannot find me if you go.
(To R. H. : Shall I ask what place that is !) (R. H. to S. : Yes.)
(What place is that, father ?) With the younger men trying to find me.
They are not light and I cannot reach you there.
What was it Nani [!] said about the paper . . [See Note 138, p. 499.]
I am sorry if I mistake any thing but they tell me if I am patient I will
remember all.
(R. H. : Mr. Hyslop, your son James was trying experiments with some
other persons, but he did not expect to find you, so you need not bother
about that.)
Thank you, I U D, and I am glad indeed. James, if you will wait you
shall know all. Believe me I will in time recover fully.
[I saw in this allusion to my going to a certain place evident indications,
or at least a coincidence capable of interpretation of such indications, that I
was with some "younger men" in connection with this subject. I recalled
at once an occasion in New York some weeks ago when I addressed the
young men of the Graduate Club on psychical research and recounted in full
the facts of my former sittings. I felt the occasion very strongly and the
men showed much interest in the account. But it did not occur to me that
the allusion might be to a system of experiments which I instituted immedi
ately after my sittings and on my return to New York to imitate the Piper
phenomenon. I had frequently to explain them, their purpose, meaning,
etc., to the young men with whom I conducted them. I also frequently
mentioned my experiments with Mrs. Piper to these men, and so quite con
stantly had my father on my mind. It is strictly true that the "young
men" are not "light," that is, mediumistic, though it is interesting to see
the real or apparent supposition that I was in some way endeavouring to get
into communication with my father, and the correct statement that I could
not expect to do it in this way, if the Piper experiments are a test of its
possibility.—J. H. H.]
Why do you not hear me ? (R. H. to S. : Say something.) (I hear you
all right.)
Well, what I want you to know most at the moment is that I am speaking
to some other man who is speaking for me and I will soon be here myself.
U D.
Mother, Annie and all the rest. [Name Annie correct.—J. H. H.]
Speak to me now. (Well, father, I shall be glad to hear from all of you.
Give your names if you can.) And yourself, how are you ? I feel that you
are much better and less worried. (Yes, father, I am much better and less
worried.)
I will speak again presently, have patience with me.
2 b 2
420 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
There is time for all things, and God is merciful to all.
[Characteristic.—J. H. H.]
He will return in a moment . . merciful to all.
We would like to have our earthly friend U D us if possible, and when
so we can be of great service to him in more ways than one. R. (R. H. ;
Yes.)
Yes, I am here, and I am thinking over the things I said when I was con
fused. Do you remember of my telling you I thought it possible that we
might live elsewhere !
(Yes, father. I remember it well.)
But to speak was doubtful, very . . Ah yes [?]
we do speak, although vaguely at times. (R. H. : After very ?)
Ah, but we . ah . ("vaguely at times") . . at best
we do .
[The allusion in this passage seems to be the same as in former sittings,
both to our conversation on this subject and my doubts. —J. H. H.]
What is on my mind at present is the conditions which help me to return,
U D. I have found a just and all-wise Protector who will not overlook me.
I am coming nearer and nearer.
Yes . . yes . . [in reply to questions by R. H. if word above was
protector.]
Do you remember when . . Do you remember when you asked me
what I said to you on your departure for school '. (Yes, I remember that
well. Do you know what school I went to !) I remember asking you to
improve the opportunity. I am thinking about it now and I will speak it
very soon. Do you remember my last words to you ? [Same thought as in
last sitting Dr. Hodgson had for me (Cf. pp. 401-405).—J. H. H.] (Yes.)
I shall look forward to seeing you again soon when I hope to be better
able to speak.
[Hand talks with Sp.]
Friend, wilt thou move for a while and return presently ? . . for
(R. H. : Do you mean me, Rector ?)
Yes, thou, as we have some work to do for Mr. Hyslop here, and thy
father also is coming. Kindly go. Go not for long.
[R. H. goes out.]
nor far away.
Art thou here, friend ?
I want to see you clearly, James, if possible.
(Yes, free your mind, tell what you are thinking about.)
I am here again. I am trying to think of the Cooper School and his
interest there. [See Note 39, p. 499.]
Do you remember how my throat troubled me ? . . throat. [Another
allusion to his fatal illness.—J. H. H.] (Yes.) I am not troubled about it,
only thinking. (I am glad to hear that.)
I remember my old friend Cooper very well and his interest . . inte
rests (Yes) and he is with me now.
(Yes, I am glad to hear it. Tell about him.)
He is with me now. He maintained the same ideas thorought. (What is
the last word ?) throughout [throuought] (Yes, I understand.)
XLl] 421
Appendix III.
And perhaps you will recall a journey . . journey U D we took together.
Do you hear me. [We did take a journey together, but this allusion is too
indefinite for any special pertinence. If the "we" refers to Cooper and
himself it is not true.—J. H. H.] (Yes, I hear.} And do you remember
John ' (John. Yes, I remember him.) He has just come to greet you for
a moment. [See Note 39, p. 499 and p. 480.]
And do you remember anything about Lucy . . . Lucy . Lucy
. . I say Lucy. [Lucy not deciphered.] She was Nannie's [?] cousin.
[Cousin not deciphered.] You may not hear me.
[I can make nothing of this passage referring to Lucy and calling her
Nannie's cousin. I know no one of that name that could be called my aunt
Nannie's cousin, nor a cousin of my stepmother who evidently passed in
some of the sittings under the name Nannie, though this is not correct.
Neither can I make anything out of the allusion just afterward to my brother
and the visit to him. Apparently there was some wandering and confusion
in both cases, as communications from father were superseded by those from
my sister who avows it her mission to help father to remember and to
become clear.—J. H. H.] [See Note 40, p. 501.]
(Yes, I hear.) And yet I am thinking of F * * [rest of word undue.]
and my visit to him. I mean your brother . . Brother . . Hear it 1
(Yes, I hear it.)
Where is he now . . is your . . I . . my son. I do . . . [This is
too vague for any use. Father never visited my brother Frank. But then
this may not be meant. Nov. 3rd, 1899.—J. H. H.] [See Note 40, p. 501.]
Annie ... I want to help father to remember everything because I
came here first and long ago. [This relation of time is correct in both
instances. —J. H. H.] Do you hear me, James ! Do you remember the large
sled . . the large Sled ? (I am not sure ) Sled Sled (Yes, I understand.)
Do you know the one I mean ! I remember you and the Allen [? inter
preted by S. as older] boys had it when I was in the body. Do you remember
it ! [Cf. p. 422.] (No, I do not remember.)
[1 have no recollection of this sled incident, but it is extremely probable.
My sister died in the winter. "Allen" is probably Rector's mistake for
MeClellan.-J. H. H.]
Here is father and he is alone
[R. H. returns.]
again now and I will go for a moment. [See Note 41, p. 502.]
Now, James, here I am, I am thinking about the church and the
little . . . [Cf. p. 435.]
[I should have been glad to have seen this developed.—J. H. H.]
(R. H. : Shall I stay ?)
Yes. All right now. Remain, friend, and all will be well.
Speak to me occasionally, James, that I may hear you.
(Yes, father, tell about the little church, tell about the church.)
It . . reach you . . Be just always. [These words probably part
of conversation between Rector and communicator.]
And perhaps you will recall an old friend of mine who was a doctor and
who was a little peculiar in regard to the subject of religion, and with whom
1 had many long talks. fWho . . . ) A man small of stature and .
422 [l*ART
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
and more or less of mind. It has gone from me, i.e., his name, but it will
come back to me.
[It appeared hardly safe to identify this reference to a doctor friend too
definitely. When I saw the word "doctor" written I thought of father's
old family physician who died long ago. But the reference to his peculiar
views about religion turned me off upon another physician who had the
reputation of being an arch sceptic. But then again as soon as the mention
was made of the long talks, the passage taking time enough for the writing to
enable my thoughts to change, I saw clearly that this was not the man
meant, as I knew my father never talked to this physician on religion,
while his old family physician was of the same religious conviction as my
father. The long talks and peculiar views of religion, however, at once
suggested the name of another physician (Dr. Harvey McClellan, whose
name was apparently attempted towards the end of the sitting) with whom
1 know my father did talk on this subject, and I remember that my father
and aunt used to condemn his more liberal views very heartily. —J. H. H.]
[Further study of this incident leads me to think that possibly my father
had his dentist in mind here, and this in spite of my thought at the time
and the immediate attempt to give the name McClellan which was plainly
indicated to refer to my cousin. The reference to the church and the talks
on religion, especially when characterising them as peculiar, confirm or
suggest this interpretation more strongly than the first one. This dentist
was a Unitarian. My father admitted his intelligence, but could not agree
with him on religion, and had many talks with him. (Cf. Note 74, p. 523)
(April 24th, 1901.)—J. H. H.]
Do you remember McCollum ['J (S. : McAllum !) (R. H. : McCollum?)
(S. to R. H. : No. I know what it is.)
(Spell it again.) McAllum. (How was he related to you?) He was
McAllan [?] (Yes, that's it.) Don't you I* D who I mean? He came
over some time ago. [Correct, if it refers to my cousin.—J. H. H.] (Yes.
1 remember. Tell.)
What about your uncle ? (Which uncle do you mean ?) I mean .
let me hear once more . . I mean Charles.
(S. to R. H. : That's not quite right. Shall I make him spell it out?)
(R. H. to S. : Yes.)
You must remember him. (Yes. I remember him, but please spell out
the name in full.) In full. (The name Charles is not right.) In full did
you say ? (Yes.)
ClaRl . . [hand signifies dissent.] speak it more loudly.
C 1 or 0 R . . C. [pause.] (That's Clark) ClaRAkE Clark
(that's right) e. (Not quite.) son [?] . . there are some more which I
will ... I say. He is here himself speaking it for me.
C 1 a r ke. CI arance.
Speak it louder, friend. Well he is Uncle Clauc [i] C 1 a r a ke.
I will wait for it.
It sounds very like it. Clarke. Charles [!]
[This allusion to my " uncle Charles " and the long effort to get it right is
one of the most interesting incidents of the sitting. It will be remembered
that in one of my earlier sittings, that of December 24th last, he was called
XLI.] +23
Appendix III.
" uncle Charles," and on my demand for more explicit information, he was
said "not, to be a real uncle." I here asked for the name to be given
correctly and in full. "Clarke" is not correct, nor will any but psychic
researchers familiar with the phenomena we are here dealing with recognise
any similarity between this and the real name which I hope still to get in the
future. There is some suggestion of it in " Clarke." But the most interest
ing part of the incident is the consciousness of Rector that he is not getting
it right, and his very earnest effort to get it.—J. H. H.] i
Well, never mind. Don't try. Wait a moment and do not hurry
. . . . yes and McAllan. Well, you must know him. I had a cousin by
that name. Don't you remember it : [Cousin first interpreted as brain.]
COUSIN. Cousin. [He was my cousin, not father's.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, I remember my cousin. What was his first name ? Tell him to
give his first name.)
He will, but do not worry about it.
Yes. I haven't seen so many here around the light in a long time. R.
Where is George ? I often think of him but I do not worry any more
about him. [Name correct and suggestion pertinent.—J. H. H.] (George is
at home and all right. Do you remember where that is ?) Oh yes, I often
go out there to see him. (Do you . . do you ever see him i) Oh yes, I
think, if I U D your question, I do.
Yes, and do you remember Thom . . . Tom . . and what has he
done with him ? I feel quite . . . yes . . . yes, all right .
I mean the horse. (S. : That's it. My conscience !)
[This reference to "Tom, the horse," is profoundly interesting. As soon
as I saw Torn written I thought of an old negro whom father often employed
in the harvest field and with whom he used to have much fun. But I was
completely surprised when the statement came, " I mean the horse,"
possibly as information to Rector, who perhaps was puzzled at first to know
what the passage meant. The question should have ended with "what he
did with him." "Tom" was the off horse of a favourite pair of father's,
who had served him so well that he would never part with them but resolved
to keep them until they died. " Tom " was excitable, though not dangerous,
worked too hard and was wind broken. Just how and when he died I do not
know, as his death occurred after I had left home and neighbourhood for
teaching, but I merely recall that a letter from some one of the family told
me of the time and manner of his death. My impression is that my brother
i The failure to get the name Carruthers correctly, at least eventually, was pro
bably as much my fault as any one's, perhaps mine alone. When Rector gave the
name " Clark " instead of " Clarake " I said, " That's right," meaning that " Clark "
was the correct form for the apparent attempt in Clarake, and not that I recognised
the name as the correct one for my uncle. But my statement was calculated, unin
tentionally, to make Rector believe that he had caught the name, and that it was
right. It is interesting, therefore to note that in most instances during the later
sittings the name of this uncle appears as "Clarke," and only occasionally as
" Charles," which had been used for the name of this uncle until I called for the
correct form here. Had I not used the expression "That's right" I might have
gotten the name correctly, but the mischief was done, and I did not wish to preci
pitate such a time as occurred later when I asked for the correct name of my step
mother. January 16th, 1900.—J. H. H.
J. H. Hyalop, Ph.D. [PAKT
George was connected with the disposal of the horse after his death. [See
Note 42, p. 602.]—J. H. H.]
I am thinking about it now, and everything I ever knew I believe,
because my mind travels so fast and I try to get away from the rest as much
as possible. [Interesting suggestion as to place of Attention and Inhibition
in this phenomenon.—J. H. H.]
Arthur after 1 go out I shall feel better.
[Arthur was probably Rector's misinterpretation of After.—R. H.]
I feel better than I did a while ago. I wonder what Annie meant about
the Sled . . Sled. She has it on her mind.
James, are you waiting for me ? I used to read the paper in my chair,
but strange they none of them remember it. [Not all deciphered immedi
ately.] [See Note 43, p. 502.]
Did you write to Nannie about it, James t papers .
[R. H. had misinterpreted paper and strange and iK»ie in sentence above, and
re-reads it with some other interpretation of strange and none.]
No, no, do not speak so, friend . . strange they do (" none of them
remember it ") write [right ?]
You must know what I am thinking about.
[I remember that father had a tall rocking chair in my younger days in
which he always sat, and in which he was accustomed, daytime or evening,
to read the papers. I imagine that he had the same habit in the latter part
of his life.—J. H. H.]
And the little tool I used for my feet ("and the little tool"). He says
no. Stool. (S. : Is that word Slool ?) Yes. I had for my feet. Cannot
you remember (When was this !) Just l)efore I came here.
(I do not remember it, but I think some one else will.)
[As I read this over, I think that this reference to a stool is pertinent,
and that father used one during his last illness. Nannie is not the correct
name here, though, if we interpret it as a mistake of Rector for the right
name (Maggie, my stepmother), the intended reference would he pertinent.
(Cf. p. 69, and Note 25, p. 365.) If she confirms this statement about the
stool, it will support my interpretation of the name in this and in some
earlier sittings.—J. H. H.] [See Note 44, p. 502.]
Strange I think, but when I go out I will think it all over and see what I
have told you.
Do you feel about the bible as you did i There are many errors in it. I
have found that out and ....
[This is a great change of mind for father, and would be against personal
identity, and could be made consistent with it only on the supposition of the
spirit hypothesis involving a view of things quite different from the ordinary
orthodoxy.—J. H. H.] [Cf. hymn incident, p. 389.]
give me . . [articles placed under hand.]
James, where is that paper knife . . do you know !
(I have not found it, but I think mother knows about it.) [See earlier
sittings, pp. 378, 379 and Note 14, p. 359.—J. H. H.]
Well, that will be all right, but what I am anxious about is for you to
know I am not forgetting anything, only I am a little confused when I try to
tell you what I so long to do.
Appendix III. 425
I think of twenty things all at once. I am now thinking of those
pictures ; where are they ?
Do you remember a small cap I used to wear occasionally, and I left it I
think with Francis (R. H. : Francis) [Hand dissents] Fred-—F Re I
mean Fredrick [?] ("Fredrick"?) [S. shakes his head negatively.] no,
not that, but with F . . but F. (Cf. p. 387.)
[This allusion to the cap again is interesting, especially in connection with
the name Francis, and the attempt to correct or change it into another form.
My brother's name, the youngest, is Francis, but we invariably called him
Frank.—J. H. H.]
Do you know the one I mean ! I cannot think any more. Wait for me
to return. I will be better bye and bye. Yes, his name was Henry
McAllam [?] and he is . . .
[Here we have very nearly the name of the physician with peculiar
religious views mentioned earlier in this sitting. His name was Harvey
McClellan. This confirmed my earlier conjecture very clearly.—J. H. H.]
[See p. 422, and Note 74, p. 523.]
gone. [Pause.]
Our prayers have been with thee often, friend, and for thy health, and
we are thy friends, and when thou art cast down call upon us for help, and
help thou shalt receive.
We went to the boy immediately. We wen . .
We received thy message, and we went to the boy at once. + . . went.
(R. H. : I understand. Thank you.)
[At the sitting of May 26th, Miss E. gave a request sent by R. H. from
Mrs. C, asking Imperator to help a little boy who was ill.]
Ah, James, do not, my son, think I am degenerating because I am dis
turbed in thinking over my earthly .ife, but if you will wait for me I will
remember all, everything I used to know. I assure you 1 will, and you shall
know what we so long ago wished to know.
I often say to mother [?] Ann Ann e. (Yes, is this Annie ?) Yes, I
came with father just for a moment because he is weak. Do you remember
how I looked . . looked . . and the little pansie Mowers I pressed
in one of my books . . . [pansie flowers not deciphered at once.]
pansies I pressed in one . . . [read correctly] Yes. (I think so.)
[I said yes, here, less because of any clear recollection of the fact than
because the faint feeling that it was true justified an encouraging answer. I
do not know whether I can confirm this or not. —J. H. H.] [August 1st,
1899. Not capable of any confirmation.—J. H. H.]
On reading this reference to my mother, and the names "Ann" and
" Anne " while revising the proofs it flashed across my mind that my mother
kept some pansies pressed in an old Bible. This recollection is very clear.
I do not know who pressed them, and inquiry of my aunts and my living
sister does not confirm my memory of them. But this sister was only seven
years old when my sister Annie died, and only twelve years old when my
mother died, and is the only other member of the family that is in any way
likely to remember anything about the facts, as she alone has shown any
disposition to keep and protect my mother's relics and mementos of others.
But it was entirely characteristic of my mother to keep articles like pressed
426 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
pansies, especially if they were the product of her deceased children or
relatives. It was she that was instrumental in having the hair wreath made
from the locks of the family and dead relatives. Besides, she had preserved
with religious saeredness some little trinkets of a cousin who had been
a missionary in India. Hence, it is intrinsically probable that the incident
of the pansies is true, but the late occurrence of the recollection and the
circumstances under which the recall was made, might suggest an illusion of
memory on my part, and I cannot press the significance of the incident.
(May 25th, 1900.)—J. H. BL]
I am more fond of them here. But I am going away now.
Oh, will I see you again, or what will I tell father for you . . What
will I tell father . . I cannot see. I am going.
(Tell father I shall be glad to hear about Mr. McClellan and Mr. Cooper
the next time.)
I will, but they are here, dear, don't you U D.
(R. H. : I think she'd better stop. Rector, please.)
I will go. Good-bye.
I hear thy father say I will return.
Here . . here comes our leader, and we will obey Him. R.
Peace to thee, friends. Go thou forth and worry not.
We cease now and may the grace of God be and abide with thee ever
more. Farewell + I. S. D. {R} (R. H. : Amen.)
[Mrs. P.'s subliiu.]
I.
There's . . there's . . two . .
Ah [Shakes her head affirmatively several times.]
INTRODUCTION'.
The same physical phenomena as the day before accompanied the
approach of the trance. It was curious to note the gradual arrest of
the tendency to cough as anaesthesia supervened. I observed, soon after
Mrs. P. sat down in the chair to go into the trance, that she sighed
quite perceptibly several times. This was repeated later as the trance
deepened until it ran into short, quick, but heavy breathing, then all
at once stopped as the head fell down upon the pillow.—J. H. H.
May 30th, 1899.
Record of Hitting. May mth, 1899.
Professor J. H. H. and R. H.
[Mrs. P.'s sublim. I. "Sh—h—h."—apparently repeating an injunction
for quiet.]
[Rector writes.]
HAIL. (R. H. : Hail.) [Hand appears to wait for S. to speak.]
(R. H. : Say something.) (What shall I say ?) (R. H. : Answer the greet
ing.) (Welcome this morning.)
God's blessings on thee daily + .
XLI.] 427
Appendix III.
Behold the light of Heaven will shine forth and give thee greater know
ledge of this life. Imperator.
We meet thee this day with joy, and peace be to all.
[R. H. interpreted give above as guide, and told Rector he could not
read it.]
He saith and He will give thee (R. H. : "greater knowledge of this
life") Amen. R.
(R. H. : We meet thee this day "—what comes next !) With joy.
Come and listen to our teachings and all will be well.
Yes, here I am.
James. James. James. (Good morning. Good morning, rather. I
am glad to see you, and hope you will be able to express yourself clearly
to-day as you did yesterday.) '
I hear, and I am really glad to hear you, James. .How I have longed to
find you .
[S. starts to turn over page, although there was room for more writing.]
(R. H. : Don't . . . get as much on a page as we can.)
and now I am very much nearer this . . to-day.
I have talked it over with my old friend Cooper, and we both agree that
we will very clearly speak our minds here.
We are the same friends to-day that we always were, and James also.
[This does not appear to be addressing me as the following indicates.—
J. H. H.]
Let me speak. R.
There is a gentleman on our side named James also. (R. H. : Yes.)
Kindly do not get the one here confused with the one in the body.
[This is an interesting caution at this point, though I wonder why they
felt the necessity of giving it. I could name two Jameses to which it could
apply.—J. H. H.]
I am still here. I have been wondering if you remembered anything
about me. I am your cousin H., H. McAUen.
[The first initial to this name is not correct, but as the second "H"
repeats the first we may have only the second initial of the name intended.
I do not remember distinctly whether the second initial of this cousin, the
relationship being rightly named, is correct or not.—J. H. H.] [His name,
I find, was, as I supposed, R. H. McClellan, or Robert Harvey McClellan. —
August 1st, 1899.—J. H. H.]
Don't . . do you not hear me?. (Yes, I hear you. I shall be glad
for you to go on. ) I am with you still you see. Do you remember Wallace
. . . and Williams, the Williams boys I mean. [I do not recognise at
present any pertinence in these names.—J. H. H.] [See Note 45, p. 503.]
I am at the moment trying to think what became of Robert.
Speak to me, for God's sake, and help me to reach .
(Yes. I remember Robert, but which Robert is it ?) [Repeated.]
I think you say, which Rob is it ! Well, Hyslop. (That's right.) I
mean Rob Hyslop, of course ; which other . . other . . could I mean ?
[This is the name of my brother, whom we always Killed Rob. instead
of Robert. The explanation of it and the curious imputation that I should
not think of any other is very interesting. The evidence a little later seems
428 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
to be that the communicator was not my father, but the cousin mentioned
in the previous note.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, I remember him. He is in Cincinnati.)
Give him my greetings. I am a little dazed for the moment, but have
patience and I will be clear presently. This is * * [undec.] it . . .
Are you still here ? Which one whs it . . was it not Robert who got his
foot injured 1
(I do not remember that Robert got his foot injured, but there was one
Robert, my father, who got his leg hurt.)
We know this but we want you to know it too, and it was on the railroad
. . . [R. H. stops the writing by turning over the page.]
Do not interrupt me when I am listening.
(Oh I know.)
[There is evidently much confusion in this passage. Robert is the
name of my brother, but it does not fit the incident which I have been
curious to see from the time 1 began the sittings last December. The injury
of the foot on the railway which cost the life of my uncle last fall was a
sudden one, and his death was clearly alluded to in my second sitting,
December 24th, 1898. This, too, is the uncle whose name cost so much
effort in yesterday's sitting and failed. The linking of the name Robert with
the incident is a mistake, but I am not sure that it is a message from my
cousin. It might be a question of Rector's to the party trying to communi
cate. The answer to my statement referring to father's leg, he having
suffered for many years from locomotor ataxy, shows that my language was
not understood, but the allusion to the hurt foot and railroad is specific and
pertinent, if only it had been accompanied by the right name.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, I know that, but it was not Robert, it was another name that has
already been mentioned.)
(R. H. : Oh Lord !) [R. H. made this ejaculation as S. spoke rapidly,
and R. H. feared that he might not note every word.]
Yes. Well your father is with me here and he is helping me, and George
Pelham, to tell you these things.
I. so was Will Will William . . listen friend.
[I do not know the pertinence of this reference to William if it has any.—
.1. H. H.] [William is the name of one of my brothers. (See Note 45,
p. 503.; August 1st, 1899.—J. H. H.]
He got injured while on his way west ... [1 do not know whether
the " way west " is true or not.—J. H. H.]
Lookout, H., I am here. G. P. (R. H.: Good, George.) + sent me
some moments ago.
I mean I am thinking of one of the boys who got his foot injured on
. the railroad, and he is there with you. Hear. [The use of " one of
the boys" is wrong, supposing that my uncle is in mind, and so also the
statement that he is on this side so far as I know.—J.H.H.] [See Note
46, p. 503.]
(That means on this side !) (R. H. : Hm.)
James, was it George ! [Wrong so far as I know.—J. H. H.] I have been
trying to think . . think where is . . . and do you remember Peter
who was . . or belonged to Nanie ? [I can attach no meaning to the
Appendix III. 429
names of "Peter" and " Nanie " in this connection.—J. H. H.] [See Note
63, p. 515.—J. H. H.]
(I do not recall Peter now, but I remember some one by that first name.)
here.
(I do not know whether he is there or not. Is he on your side ?) Yes,
we say yes.
I am W. H. McAllen [?] (R. H. : Is that W. H. McAllen?)
The name does not sound right to us, friend. It is, he says, Mc .
sounds like McLELLEN . . . . G. P. . . .
Yes, I am he.
[This is interesting for the spontaneous recognition on the part of the
writer that the name was not correctly given, and for the equally spontaneous
trial to give it right. At this point apparently it is G. P. who interrupts
and gives the name. [Cf. " Hettie G. P.," p. 434.] The last syllable should
be "AN."—J. H. H.] [Only just now my attention was called to the fact
that the " C " is also omitted before the " I." (June 1st, 1900).—J. H. H.]
(Yes. I am very glad to hear from you. What relation are you to me ?)
[I asked the question to be assured of the communicator.—J. H. H.] Your
cousin. (That's right.) [This answer is correct.—J. H. H.]
Have you forgotten that, James ? [An interesting question.—J. H. H.]
I am a good soldier, don't you see I do not forget a comrade. [No special
meaning that I know in this language. —J. H. H.]
(Yes. I remembered you well, but I wanted to be sure that I got the
name just right.)
Oh I see. Well, that accounts for your not speaking to me when I came
before with Uncle Hyslop. [See p. 422.]
(Yes, that is right. Do you remember what I was doing when you saw
me last ?)
Yes, you were writing, teaching, I believe. [Correct.—J. H. H.]
(Don't you remember a meeting in which I spoke ?)
[Much excitement.] Oh yes. Oh yes. Oh yes. Oh yes. (R. H. : Calm.)
but I could not exactly remember just what it was.
[This lapse of memory, if such it could be called, is natural enough, to say
nothing of the general nature of the question I put. It would be most
natural for my cousin to think of me as teaching, and as he had been ill some
months before his death and after I saw him at the meeting which he
arranged for me, my question might not suggest what was in my mind. On
the hypothesis of telepathy it ought to have been gotten. The recognition
and excitement after my second question are very interesting, though it
cannot be treated as evidential since we can suppose my question as implying
its own answer.—J. H. H.]
(S. to R. H. : Want another pencil ?)
And have you any knowledge of Merritt—
[I did not understand at the time the meaning of this name nor have I
since been able to ascertain any relevance in it (June 1st, 1900).—J. H. H.]
The machine is not right, H. [From G. P.]
[R. H. substitutes a fresh pencil.]
of Merritt—
Wait a moment. His father is coming.
430 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Yes, James, I tun here now. You must know what I mean when I say I
do not think it did me any good. The fact is it was time for me to come and
nothing could do me any good. Do you U D. [A very pertinent remark
if interpreted in reference to his disease.—J. H. H.] (Yes. I understand.)
I am glad it is as it is. (I am very glad you feel so about it.) And I want you
to feel as I do. You are tired, James.
[This is a correct statement and is interesting for the dogmatic character
of it. I was very tired from hard work at the college in the work referred
to below.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, father, I have had some hard work with these communications and
investigations. )
but do not make it hard, make it as you can easy.
You know how I used to talk to you about overdoing anything, and you
will remember your tireless energy. It is I, your father, who is speaking
now ; and how absorbed you used to get in your work, no matter what the
nature of it was. Take my advice and don't do it, but be patient and work
faithfully ; the activities will go on after you are done there, do you hear
me ? I . . . faithfully . . . activities.
[The advice and comments here made by my father are very characteristic.
The most suggestive coincidental feature of it is the reference to the way he
used to talk to me about my hard working. The word "overdoing" was
especially the term he used to employ. The same could be said of the word
"absorbed," and "patient." He always advised me about being patient
and more slow and deliberate in my work. He was so himself. Some of
the other remarks in this passage are suggestive either of what is going on
with him on the other side or of my work going on here. They have no eviden
tial value, but they are curiously consistent with this whole phenomenon.—
J. H. H.] [See Note 47, p. 503, and p. 313.]
(Yes. I hear. I expect to rest this summer.)
Going home ! (Yes, I am going home.) [I had resolved about a week or
more ago to make this trip West on business matters. —J. H. H.]
God bless and keep you while there. Give my love to them and all.
(R. H. : It means one and alt.)
And do not forget that I shall not be far off. Do you remember when I
got hurt, James? (Yes, father, I remember when you got hurt.)
[Father was injured by some overwork in the harvest field, and the effect
of it in a few years was to disable him entirely and to render him unfit for
any labour whatsoever on the farm. It resulted in locomotor ataxy and the
life of an invalid for over thirty years. The injury took place when I was
very young and I do not remember being a personal witness of it. I was
told of it by father himself, and hence my language here is not meant to
imply that I was a witness of the injury (Cy. p. 428).—J. H. H.]
And do you recall the fire I spoke to you about. [Cf. pp. 324, 503.]
(I remember a fire but I am not certain which fire you refer to.) (I
remember a tire but I am not certain which fire you mean.)
We lived near, and, although it did not interfere, it gave me a fright. My
thoughts are quite clear on this point. I think there can be no mistaking it.
[There is a curious persistence about this tire. I know of no such instance
within my memory except the railroad collision and tire in connection with
XLI.] 431
Appendix III.
it. But this neither fit* in with the statement about its being near and
about the fright nor accords with anything I can recall. My aunt was on the
same train, and had a narrow escape, but father did not know this until
afterward. There was a fire in the near neighbourhood of father's old
home connected with a mill, but this was before my time.—J. H. II.] [See
Note 48, p. 503.]
There are some things which I have said whilst speaking to here .
you . . [Hand indicates that yon is to be inserted in its place.] (R. H. :
"to you here") [Assent] which may seem muddled. Forgive it, my son,
and if you wish to straighten it ask me and I will.
Charles. (Is this brother Charles ?) Yes and John.
I just called them . . I just called them.
(What John is this !) Brother John. [Father had no brother.— J. H. H.]
(Is this brother Charles speaking ?) Yes, and father. We are both
speaking.
Chester [?] Clarke [?] and Charles [!] Yes.
Oh, speak, James. Help me to keep my thoughts clear.
(Yes. I think you are uncle, are you not ?)
No, it is I, your father, who is speaking, and I am telling you about
Charles and John.
(What John is that ? I remember Charles, but not John, unless it is
John some one else.)
Mc John. There are two of the McLellen over here. (Yes.) [This I
knew to be correct.—J. H. H.]
And this one is John. (Yes.) (Do you remember where he lived on earth ?)
I do. What . . . (Do you remember where he lived on earth ?)
(R. H. to S. : You're getting away beyond the record.) [S. was talking
faster than R. H. could record.]
(I remember John McClellan.)
I don't believe I U D just what you said, James.
(Do you remember where he lived on earth ?)
Ohio O H [S. asks R. H. to read.] (R. H. : Ohio.)
Was it that you meant ? (That is right.) I told it I thought before.
O H I O .
[This long passage beginning with Charles is a very interesting one though
only two things in it are clear. The confusion begins with the answer to my
question about "brother Charles." But when the "Chester," "Clarke"
and "Charles" appear in this connection, the reference is undoubtedly
to the one whose name appeared as uncle Charles. This uncle "Charles"
was his brother-in-Jaiy.] [See Note 49, p. 504.]
[In my original note I explained that I thought the John McClellan here
indicated was the one I knew at college, and it was not until the sitting of
June 6th (Cf. p. 471) that I understood my mistake, though a letter received
before the sittings were over told me that the John McClellan I had in mind
was still living. (June 1st, 1900.)—J. H. H.]
(That is good. Father, that is very good.)
I am good, am I ? Well, why shouldn't I be good '! What else could I be,
James, and set an example for my sons ? (Yes.) But you were the best I
ever had. (Well . . .) I feel this deeply, James.
432 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Well, father, I am glad of that, but when I referred to your being good,
I meant the message that came through was correct and fine.)
Oh, I see, I misunderstood it.
(S. to R. H. : He corrects that.)
[This language is characteristic of father, as I remarked in my earlier
sittings (see sitting for December 24th, 1898). It was especially charac
teristic of him to see that his example to us should be all that it should ever
be in a father. But the misunderstanding of my question was a curious one.
It illustrates the imperfection of the communications, as well as the liability
to misunderstanding, perhaps on both sides, on any theory. —J. H. H.]
Oh yes, to be sure. Well, speak a little slower, James, and I am I
feel . . hear . ,
slower. [In the writing above the I was omitted and the word was inter
preted as sooner.] I shall be able to hear it better.
There was another one here whom you must have forgotten.
Do you remember Mary Ann Anne. (Well, the rest of it ?) Do you
remember Mary Anne Hyslop. (Yes, I do. What relation was she to me ?)
Have you forgotten your mother ? (No, no, father. I have not forgotten,
but I wanted to see it written out here.)
[This is almost the correct name of my mother. The following shows
how much of it is correct Mar—Ann Hyslop. Her name was not Mary.—
J. H. H.]
Well, speak to her, my boy.
(Mother, I am glad to hear from you. What have you to say ?)
I can only say that God has has been good to us all, and after all our
struggles in body we are again together reunited and happy . . and
happy, and I am glad to see you my dear and I want to tell you that I have
watched over you many a day when you little knew I was near.
I am tired speaking, but I will speak again soon. Father will help you
now. Good-bye (Good-bye, mother.) and God bless you always. [All
very characteristic. —.1. H. H.] I want to speak of the rest, but I am too
weak.—M. A. H.
[These are correct initials of her name.—J. II. H.]
(S. to R. H. : Look at the hand.) [Hand becomes somewhat limp and
sways slightly on table.]
Yes, James, my son, I am still here. I have come to keep my promise to
you. I want to go back to the old home and recall my life there, but if I
can see you from time to time I will tell you all.
James, do you remember my preaching
(I remember you used to talk and read to us about the sermons.)
and . . . Sunday . . . mornings . . at home.
(Yes. I remember that well.)
Do you remember the dining-room and prayers.
[This passage beginning with the question about father's preaching is
exceedingly interesting. Only he was not a preacher, and would never say
"Sunday." "Sabbath " is the word he always used, but the word Sunday
may have been due to G. P., who was apparently assisting (see below p. 434).
I may also explain here more fully than I did in a previous note (p. 413)
what significance may be attached to the term " preaching." Corroborative
XLt.] Appendix III. 433
also of my interpretation of the use of the word "Sunday " is the fact that
there was some delay both before and after the word. The church to which
my father belonged was a small one and could not afford to pay for regular
preaching. The consequence was that we were often without it, perhaps
nearly half the time, until it had, in his later days, to be wholly abandoned.
But very often—if 1 remember rightly, always—when there was no sermon,
father would gather his family about him on Sabbath mornings and say that
as we could not go to church, he would read and comment upon a chapter
of the Bible. He always expressly indicated that it was to take the place
of a sermon. Morning prayers were often held in what we then called the
kitchen, where we always ate our meals except when we had company. They
were often held in what we called the sitting-room, but what is usually
called the dining-room by most people, and in which we often dined ourselves.
Evening prayers were held nearly always in the sitting-room. But it is
interesting to remark that "prayers" is not the word that would be most
natural to him. He always spoke of the service as " worship," or " having
worship.".—J. H. H.]
(Yes. I remember them well.)
Think there is one of the boys I have not yet mentioned, isn't there ?
(Yes. I think so. Yes. I think you have not mentioned him very clearly.)
^Vell, I was not sure, but I would like to reach to brother Robert myself
. . . Robert cousin. [R. H. asks what the word is after " reach to "]
Do not speak so fast, friend. If they spoke so fast here I could never tell
thee anything.
I would like to refer to brother Robert myself . .
B R O (R. H. : "brother")
Reach . . Reach he said first, then refer . . refer.
Do you know who I mean, James ?
(Yes, father, I know very well.)
[This pissage with reference to my brother Robert is a very remarkable
one. It turns upon the incoherence indicated by the words "reach brother
R)bert myself . . . Robert cousin." The name of my brother Robert
was given on December 27th, 1898, at my third sitting, but the name
Hyslop was not mentioned. In the earlier part of this present sitting
both names were given in full by my cousin R. H. McClellan, and it is
interesting to remark this because father at no time gave the last name of
my brothers and sisters. But here there is the recognition of the person
who had mentioned him before, his relation to me, his first name, the dis
tinction between him as a person and my brother R,bert, and the desire to
"reach him myself" in distinction from the previous message. Evidently
there was the usual difficulty in getting the name (McClellan) which had
been given previously, and "cousin" was thrown in to identify him and
distinguish him from my brother. The mention of my brother in connec
tion with the prayers is especially interesting, as father would often pray
for this brother as if his heart would break.— J. H. H.]
I am glad you hear me so clearly. There is more than a million things
I would like to speak about, but I do not seem to be able to think of them
all, especially when I am here. It was not so long ago that I came here.
[Correct : a little over two years ago. —J. H. H.]
2 F
434. [hart
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Do you remember my library . . LIBRA . . my books, and what
has become of them ? I think you had some. [Cf. pp. 335, 377, 490.]
(Yes. I have some and mother has the others.)
I am sure it . . they are all right. I . they . . yes
[R. H. not sure that the previous they was correctly read.] wherever they
are, but there are some things on my mind which I must get off. I think
if I could help you to recall my sitting in that chair reading my paper I
would be glad. Could you not ask about this for me i [Cf. pp. 387, 41!!.]
[I do not know why these persistent references to his books and reading in
"that chair " should be made, unless we treat them as automatisms. The
chair was a special one always reserved for him, and I think had some
historical interest in connection with the family. If so, I can understand
the attempt to say something about it. He has frequently referred to his
"library " in earlier sittings, and on one occasion in those sittings it seemed
to imply a room. I said in my note, and it can be repeated here, that he
never called any room his library. But he evidently means the books them
selves in this instance when using the word. —J. H. H.]
(Yes, father, I have sent word to mother and asked about it.)
I am glad because I cannot feel satisfied to say anything that is not in the
body connected with some of us. If I do you will not [know] me, will you ?
(R. H. : "not know ! ") me. .
Now I have not spoken of Abbie yet . . (Abbie is not quite right.)
Addie, no, did you say no? (That is not quite right.) [repeated]
A . . . Nabbie. (R. H. : Is that Nabbu ?)
A b sounds like Abbie, is it Addie
(What relation is that to me ?) She is his sister.
(Do you mean Annie?) No.
(Oh, well I know. I know who you mean now. Yes. I know who you
mean now. But it is not spelled quite right.)
He seems to say . . .
let me hear it for you Rector. [Apparently by G. P.]
H Abbie. (The letter H is right.)
Y'es, but let me hear it and I will get it. —G. P.
Hattie. (That is very nearly right.) Harriet.
(Pretty nearly. Try it one letter at a time.)
H E T T I E. G. P. (That is right. Yes. That is right and fine.)
Ett [?] Hettie.—G. P. [Gf. " McLellen G. P." p. 429.]
Yes, do you hear it, James ? (Yes. I hear it.)
[This attempt to get the name of my sister is very interesting. When
"Abbie" was given I thought the intention was to give the name of my
stepmother Maggie, but as soon as "Hattie" came I saw that it was my
sister who had not yet been mentioned. The nickname Hettie is correct for
her, though we never called her that, at least I never did so, and I know-
some of the others and her friends called her Etta. This seems to have
been written partly, "Ett . ."at the end. But it was near enough for
me to recognise it clearly for Henrietta and I did not press for this last,
which was probably not the natural form of using her name.—J. H. H.]
[I learn that father always called her Henrietta. Some of the friends
of the family called her Etta. (July, 1899).—J. H. H.]
XLI.] 435
Appendix III.
Well, do you wish me to tell you about her i
[About her written on top of page already written upon, before R. H.
could turn over. R. H. said rather sharply the usual words "One moment,
please," used by him to Rector to stop the writing while the page is
turned.]
What is it, H., did you speak t [Apparently from G. P.]
(R. H. : Only, Rector, I wished to turn over the page, as you were
writing on the same sheet.)
Oh yes, all right, friend. But thy friend George is helping me to .
in speaking with this elderly gentleman. He had a marvellously good
memory when in his body until the very last, and he is extremely anxious to
remember everything, but will assist his children or child. [R. H. interprets
rhihl, as died.]
now ■
I mean child, child, friend, not die.
James, do you remember a little bridge we used to cross in going up
the church? (R, H. :" Church.") [Cf. p. 421.]
(S. to R. H. : No. May be.)
to the church.
(Yes. I remember the bridge and the creek.)
Yes, I do very well. I do also. Mother just called my mind to it.
[This reference to "a little bridge" is pertinent and interesting if it refers
to the one which the communication suggested. But it is too indefinite for
me to attach any evidential weight to it. The interesting part of it, however,
is the statement that he was reminded of it by (my) mother. This would
characterise her rather than father, because he had not gone to church in
that direction for twenty years before his death, and mother died (186S))
about the time when we ceased going to church that way.—J. H. H.] [There
may be a doubt about the reference being to my mother (November 3rd,
1899).—J. H. H.]
Hettie. Tell me about her. Tell me about her.
(Hettie is at school now getting ready to teach.)
I know she must be a good girl. Do you know how fond I was of her !
(Yes, I know that very well.)
Does she ever speak of me ! I don't suppose you can tell because you
are not with her often . . often.
(S. to R. H. : That's Hen, isn't it ?) (R. H. : No.)
[I thought the word "often" was an attempt to give the name Henrietta,
and thought it might go on. But I saw in a moment that Dr. Hodgson was
correct in his interpretation. The statement is true. My sister was born
the first or second year I was at college, and I was at home very little after
that.—J. H. H.]
James, I am * * [undec.] I am glad he [f] is . . he is . .
here comes John again, we will be obliged to let him go for the present.
(R. H. : Yes.)
And if you will speak to me, James, I will tell you that cousin Annie is
very anxious to send her love to H . . h . . H. Hettie.
(I will. I will give her love to her. I will give cousin Annie's love to
Hettie.)
2 f 2
436 [i'ART
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
And do vou reinember anything of Ruth ! I often hear her speak of her,
and . . she is only a friend I think. [See Note 50, p. 505.]
I am . . in fact the light is going out.
I wish thee to speak, friend, ere we depart.
[Hand listens to R. H.]
(Mrs. B. wrote me late the night of the fifth day after last Sabbath,
saying she had a painful toothache and could not attend here. I sent word
to the light that there would be no meeting, and she went away on some
work of her own. Then Mrs. B. found next morning that she could come,
and she came, but the light was away from home. It was of course entirely
Mrs. B's. misunderstanding of her own illness that caused her to miss.)
We thank thee for this explanation, and we will answer by saying all who
fail to meet us it is their loss not ours U D.
James, my boy, 1 will meet you again . sincerely [?]
Your affectionate father. [This is the exact form of closing his letters to
me. It is of course common and not evidential.—J. H. H.] [Cf. p. 456.]
(Yes, father. I am glad. So good-bye to-day. I shall see you to
morrow.)
We cease now, and may the blessings of Heaven be with thee. Fare
well + Imperator. { R }
[Mrs. P.'s subliin.]
Hyslop. Hyslop.
All right. Good-bye.
There's Imperator.
Saying a prayer.
Farewell. [In a loud voice.]
I didn't want to go. [In crying voice.]
Introduction-.
There were the same general physical indications of the oncoming
trance, but also interesting variations. I have noticed that hardly any
two of the trances are exactlv alike. There is no appearance of the
artificial in them, such as is so easily remarked in the simulated trance
of a fraud.
The first sign of the trance in this case was a few stares into space,
and a slight elevation of the open eyes. Then several cases of gaping
which showed some weariness, of which Mrs. P. had complained when
she sat down. She placed her hand on her head a little above the
forehead, and appeared to press it heavily. Presently the stare became
quite fixed, and the mouth noticeably drawn. Then her face twitched
slightly, and the mouth opened a little, and the tongue pushed forward
a little. Then she suddenly said : "See a light," and in a moment her
eyes closed, and a slight choking noise in the throat occurred, and her
head fell suddenly on the pillow. After the lapse of a few minutes
XLI.] 437
Appendix III.
heavy breathing commenced, and, with the mouth quite open, and the
tongue protruding somewhat, the choking noise in the throat occurred
again. In a moment the breathing became easier, but was still pro
longed and heavier than the normal.—J. H. H.
May 31n<, 1899.
Record of Sitting, May 31nf, 1899.
Prof. J. H. H. and R. H.
Mrs. P.'s sublim. I. " See a light." (R. H. : See a light ?)
[Rector writes.]
[Cross in air.] HAIL (R. H. : Hail.) We hail thee this day with
peace, friends of earth. (R. H. : Amen.)
Goest thou not far off but remain to hear us out + .
(R. H. : Do you desire me to leave the room and be ready to return
when called upon ?)
No, friend, but return to us daily until we cease. U D.
(R. H. : Yes, I understand.)
Sleep thou well. Eat thy food not in haste
(S. : Whew ! ) [Hand points to R. H.]
but listen to our warning, do it not so more + .
(R. H. : Yes, I will remember.)
[This was a very singular incident to me on the part of the trance per
sonality. Dr. Hodgson thought that this probably referred to the fact that
we hurried through our lunch after the sitting in order to get to work as
soon as possible on the records.—J. H. H.]
Keep thyself quite calm, rest and come to us daily.
Fail not, and all else we leave with (rod +. (R. H. : Amen.) Farewell.
Friend, we hail thee once more, and all is well.
(R. H. to S. : That's to you.)
Hearest thou me ? (Yes. I hear, and hail thee welcome.)
[Hand seems to listen to R. H.] (R. H. : Do you wish me to speak or
ask any question, Rector ?)
He felt it necessary for thee to take a message for a friend, (R. H. :
Yes, very good. I am ready.) which will avoid confusion U D. (R. H. :
Yes.)
Say to Mrs. M. that he received the roses and is grateful. (R. H. : Yes.)
More later. F. R. H. M. [Mrs. M. (See Proceedings S.P.M., Vol. XIII.,
pp. 1341-349, and also this Report, p. 458) had placed some flowers for her
husband, the communicator here, about three days previously, but, as I
ascertained later, they were not roses. —R. H. ]
James, James, rest your body and soul and fear no man.
[The admonition to rest is pertinent when we recall the previous reference
to my weariness. The expression "fear no man" has a possible meaning
which it is impossible to explain without speaking of myself.—J. H. H.]
I am with you to-day. God bless and keep you, my son. [Perfectly
characteristic.—J. H. H.] I hear you faintly, so speak slowly [read at time
as yourself].
4.38 [part
J. H. Hyslol), Ph.D.
(R. H. to S. : You murmur these words over.) [This meant for S.
instead of R. H. to read the words as they were written.]
and . . slowly and 1 will hear it all.
(Yes, father, good morning, I am glad to hear you again.;
I heard every word and I am coming nearer and nearer to you. There is
no dream here. (Yes.) And shut out the thought theory and do not let it
trouble you. I went on theorising all my earthly life and what did I .
did I gain by it ! My thoughts only became more subtle [suttle] and
, . . . SUTTLE . . and unsatisfactory. There is a God, an
allwise and omnipotent God who is our guide, and if we follow the best
within ourselves we will know more of Him.
Now speaking of Swedenborg. What does it matter whether his teach
ings were right or wrong so long as we are individually . . . and .
our . . ourselves here .
lost two or three words
are our selves here
lost one or (R. H. : "lost one or two words," yes.)
Never mind, I am clearing, James, and all will be well.
[This is a very singular passage beginning with the reference to " the
thought theory" and ending with "all will be well." My father had no
confidence in philosophical speculation, or "theorising " as he used to call it
at times, but he always drew an unconscious distinction between philosophy
and his own attempts to give intelligent meaning to his conception of
religion and its doctrines. He was always explaining and "theorising"
about these to himself and us, though within the limits of Biblical conception
and doctrine. The reference to God in the ]Missage is very characteristic,
because when he found himself at a loss to explain any difficult matter he
always fell back upon his faith in an all wise and omnipotent God who would
some day make things clear. But the most striking features of the passage
are the references to the "thought theory " and to Swedenborg. It will be
remembered that he twice before referred to Swedenborg, the first time in
connection with his reminder of our conversation (in 1804) [Correct date,
1895.] about the scientific evidence for immortality. I had explained to him
how thought-transference stood in the way of proving it, though it might be
necessary for communication. The reference here to this theory of telepathy,
its connection with Swedenborg, about whom we talked at the time, and to
personal survival are facts of extraordinary unity and interest. —J. H. H.]
Here comes John and Hathaway, and he is with him here.
(R. H. : It looks like HcMany.) HATH. (R. H. : Hathaway?)
H . . HATHAWAY
[I know nothing whatsoever about anyone by the name of Hathaway.
I have only seen the name in print. —J. H. H.]
Yes, is James here ! Ask him what can I do for you, my boy. I am taick,
and I feel much freer than I have before. I just waited to clear the way,
and there is a young man here who is very kind to me. [Doubtless G. P. is
meant. ]
Do you remember yet about Williams ?
(S. to R. H. : Shall I answer ?) (R. H. : Yes.)
(What Williams is it ?) He is F R A N K . John is anxious to know.
XLI.] 439
Appendix III.
Speak, James. [Name Frank Williams suggests nothing. —J. H. H.].
(I do not remember Frank Williams, but tell more about him, and I may
recall him.)
He had either two or three boys, sons ; they were Arthur, Fred and
Irvin . . Irvin . I R V I N . . . [These names suggest nothing.
—J. H. H.]
You must remember, it seems. I am not ipjite sure that you hear all I
say, but take out as much as you hear . . hear. (R. H. to S. : Why
don't you say something !) (Yes. I hear it all clearly.)
You may have to find out about them if you do not remember them.
(Yes. I shall try if you tell me where they lived on earth.) They lived not
far from me in Ohio, and I remember Frank very well. [Name of State
correct for alleged communicator.—J. H. H.]
(R. H. to S. : Ask if Nannie knew them.) (Did Nannie know them ?)
She must have heard about them. (What kind of work did they do ?) Frank
was at the library . . Library, and sent the books over to me just
before I left. [See Note 51, p. 506.] Do you know where F Ra nk Hyslop
is.
(Yes, I know where he is. Where did you know him ! Where did you
know Frank Hyslop !)
What did I know of Frank Hyslop. Well, of course I know him very
well, and all . . all of my cousins. Why shouldn't I, James i
(Yes. What John is this talking to me ?) Mc. (Right.) L E L L A N.
(Yes, I thought so, but do you remember where you saw Frank Hyslop i)
I do not exactly, as I do not remember just how long I have been here. 1
think he was at Uncle Robert's. I am not sure about this, James.
(Well, don't worry, but did you ever have anything to do with a college !)
[Excitement in hand.] Yes, of course, I am not forgetting that, but
sure enough it was there I saw Frank, and I have a faint recollection
of his going to be a doctor. D o c t o R. [I know nothing of this what
ever. On the contrary, my brother expected to teach. —J. H. H.] (Cf. Note
57, p. 511.)
[R. H. asks about the undec. words above.] Wait a moment and he will
return and clear it up.
Which I have a faint recollection
(R. H. : Rector, I can read that part, but I cannot read the two words
after " I am not forgetting that but ")
It . . yes . . and I have a faint .
(R. H. : No. I understand that, but I cannot read the two words after
" I am not forgetting that but ")
Wait.
(R. H. : If he does not remember his exact words, never mind.)
Ah, but U D, friend, it is I, Rector, who has to hear him and take it to
thee.
But I remember something about one of the boys who wanted to be a
doctor. Do you, James ? (What boy wanted to be a doctor ?) One of the
Hyslop boys.
(Well, I do not remember it myself, but do you remember your son
where I went to college ?)
440 [part
./. H. Hynlop, Ph.D.
Well, of course, but you see I am not quite clear yet, but it will surely
come back to me, be patient with me, James, and I will help you.
(Yes, don't . . . yes, don't worry about it. Is your wife on your
side or on this side ! Is your wife on your side or is she on this side ?)
She is here not . . . wait . . she is there and not on this side
our life. He must know this. I am sure.
(No, I did not know it because I do not often write to your son.) But
Frank (Yes, Frank will know.) will know, and if you ask him he will
tell you. [Sudden jerk in hand.] (Note 52, p. 506.]
James, I am your brother Charles, and I am well and happy. Give my
love to the new sister Ilettie, and tell her I will know her some time. Father
is . often speaks of her.
(S. " Father often speaks of her ") Yes. Do you hear ? (Yes, I hear.)
[This reference to "the new sister Hettie " is a most curious incident.
This sister was born some ten or eleven years after the death of my brother
Charles, and hence it is pertinent for him to call her a "new sister,"
as if indicating that he never knew her, which of course was true.—
J. H. H.]
Well, it was Frank who had the [who hthe] pictures and father would
like you to have them if you are still in the body, James. Speak to me.
[It. H. asks about the words after Frank above] Cannot hear.
[R. H. repeats] who had the pictures.
(Yes. I shall have the pictures, Charles.)
He asked me to say this for him. His voice troubles him a little when
trying to speak.
[This statement about my father's voice troubling him is a curious one.
If troubles incurred when embodied can prolong their influence on the soul
after death, or are revived in the act of communicating, the allusion here
would have considerable evidential weight, as previous notes show that father
suffered, and died, from both paralysis and cancer of the larynx.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, I understand. Yes, I understand.)
But if you could only see his delight when he hears you, I am sure, my
dear brother, you would never doubt that he still clings to you. It is his
one desire to comfort and help you, but he wants you to go home and rest
there.
James, one fixing more . . more. Do you know that I was a life-long
friend to you all ! (Yes, I know it.)
[Evident change to father in the next sentence. —J. H. H.]
And do you remember the visit I paid to you . . you ! [Cf. p. 474.]
(When was it !)
I cannot tell the date, but it was just before I came here.
[If this had been "the visit you paid me," it would have been nearer
right and pertinent,— J. H. H.] [See Note 53, p. 507.]
(Who is speaking now ?)
It is father who is speaking now. (Yes.)
But he seems a little dazed.
I am coming, H., to help out. (R. H. : Thanks, George, we shall be
glad.) How are you ! (R. H. : First rate. We shall be glad to have your
help.) All well. John Hart sends love and best wishes. Now . . .
Appendix III. 441
(R. H. : Give him my dearest remembrances.) I had ... I will [See
Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 353-7.]
I had a friend who . . used to call . . do you remember
Dr. Merdith . . Mek . . . Merdith . . Do you remember
D erdith . . .
(R. H. : I remember that Meredith, Harry Meredith.) Yes.
(R. H : Was a friend of yours.) Yes, what has become of him ?
(R. H. : I don't think I knew him personally myself. I saw his name a
month or two ago in some paper, but I forget the circumstances.) Give him
my love if you ever chance to meet him . . chance. [See Proceedings,
Vol. XIII., p. 2i)8.]
[This interruption by G. P. during a few moments' respite for my father
is an interesting feature of the case. I comment upon it elsewhere (pp.
211-214).-J. H. H.]
Mr. Hyslop and his wife is here, are here [S. points at the is and are]
and ... if I fail grammatically, H., it is owing to the machine. Hear.
Cannot always make it work just right.
(R. H. : Yes, I understand, George.)
[This consciousness of a grammatical mistake and the correction of it are
no less astounding when you are able to watch the conditions under which
they occur, than the readiness with which the change of personality takes
place. Besides, they fit in so nicely with what we know of G. P.'s intellec
tual tastes and habits.—J. H. H.] [See Proceedings, Vol. XIII., p. 363.]
I . . I wish you would hear me out, James, my son. I am going to
try and keep my thoughts straight. Yes. I will do my best for you.
How is Franks . . (Frank is much better.)
I thought he might come to us for a while, but we have not seen him yet.
[This query about my brother Frank and the expressed fear that he would
not live are very pertinent facts indeed. Father knew before his death of
his condition, and often wrote me that he did not think my brother would
get well. In fact my brother was so ill that it was impossible for him to be
at father's funeral. It is interesting also to remark in the statement about
his expected death that it means to assert that the expectation had been
harboured since his own death, and there is a ]Kithetic implication, uncon
scious of course, of a strange universe in the statement, " 1 have not seen
him yet. '—J. H.H.]
Have I overlooked any one, James, I will not . . .
(Yes, you have overlooked one, and then the name of another, my pre
sent mother, was not given rightly. Yes, you overlooked one of your
children.)
Have I, have I, well I will think about it, and see whether I have for
gotten them. I know I never forget anything, but when I can tell it all to
you is a different matter. Did you say anything about mother, James ! (Yes,
you did not give rightly the name of my mother on earth now.) but the one
with me. (Yes.)
I was speaking about .... I thought. I intended to bring her
and keep her clear.
(Yes, that was right. I remember my mother on] your side, but there is
one on this side you know.)
442 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
[There is an interesting misunderstanding here, which was perhaps
caused by my failure to say "stepmother' instead of "mother." Father
had mentioned to Dr. Hodgson in one of the five sittings held for me some
facts that pointed clearly to my stepmother but gave the wrong name, as
I have already remarked (p. 406). Hence having offered me a chance to
ask for corrections I here asked to have her name given correctly. The
difficulty came in using the word "mother "at all in this connection, but
having a view to scientific purposes I would not give any definite hints
regarding the name.—J. H. H.]
[Perturbation in hand.] [Pause.]
E. E. El . . [This has two possibilities, but has no reference to my
stepmother.—J. H. H.]
I wanted to speak about all of my dear Rec [?] R e b [!] [This has a
very interesting possibility connected with my cousin R. H. McClellan.—
J. H. H.]
[When I wrote the previous note I had in mind the possibility that my
cousin was trying to give the name of his aunt Rebecca, as the word began
with a capital and suggested in the other incidents of the writing that it was
intended for a proper name. It might, however, have been intended for the
word relatives. (June 2nd, 1900).—J. H. H.]
I cannot hear it, speak slower.
Well, go out then and come in again with it.
All right.
Yes, but I did not get what he said last. He said something about Lucy
[?] LUCY, but it was not for thee, friend, [meaning not for R. H.]
(S. to R. H. : I know. I know.)
And he said it over and over the last time here.
(Yes, is this my cousin speaking ?)
It is in father's place, and he will not return for a few moments.
The Lucy is not Jessie's sister, friend, [indicating R. H.] (R. H. : Yes,
I understand.) [My assistant Miss Lucy Edmunds, has had communications
from her deceased sister Jessie.—R. H.]
but for the other friend, here.
(Yes, I know. But what relation was Lucy to you ?)
Mother said it only a moment ago, and she is on father's side, and he
comes and speaks of her often. We .
[See Note 54, p. 508.]
(R. H. : Yes, Rector, kindly get George to state explicitly if possible who
this Lucy is. Last time I think you wrote it several times, but when I was
out of the room, perhaps the time before, and our friend here I think did
not read it at the time.)
did not hear it. All right. We will see about it as both Annie and her
father have brought her here several times, and Aunt Nannie will know well.
(I shall ask Aunt Nannie about it.) She is a cousin of thine, friend. Dost
thou not hear? (Yes. I hear clearly.) But do not remember. (I remember
one cousin Nannie and one Aunt Nannie.)
Yes, she is. Aunt Nannie is in the body and cousin Nannie is in the
spirit. (Yes, your . . . what relation is this cousin Nannie to you ?)
She is my sister. (R. H. : Whose sister ?) LUCYS.
XLI.] 443
Appendix 111.
[See Note 55, p. 508, and Note 95, p. 536.]
(Well. Well I shall inquire about that.)
It is as they say it, and it must he so.
James, don't you remember any . . . don't (R. H. : " dost thou *' ?)
you remember her ?
[The original notes on this complex passage, beginning with my cousin's
reference to his relatives, have been expunged, owing to the fact that in this
case the retention of my perplexities about it has no value for the critic. I
may therefore substitute the explanation that later study gives it. I discuss
certain aspects of it in Chapter III. (pp. 231-235). The reference to Lucy
explains itself as the name of my cousin's wife, still living. But Rector's
intimation to me that this Lucy was not Miss Lucy Edmunds is an interesting
piece of intermission. The next message is not so clear. But I suppose it
means that my cousin's mother had tried to give the name Lucy, and that the
allusion to "father's side " means to explain to me that it was father's sister,
whom I never knew, rather than my cousin's stepmother, whom I had known
and who was my mother's sister. My father had been the first to attempt to
give the name Lucy (p. 421). The reference to "aunt Nannie" coupled
with the statement that she was my cousin was perplexing to me, as the
reader can well imagine, until I learned from my cousin's sister Nannie that
during his last illness, in which she had nursed him, he always called her
aunt in deference to the habits of his children. She is still living, as the
statement following indicates. The reference thus becomes clear. Also if
we suppose that the allusion to " cousin Nannie " in saying that she was "in
the spirit" is a mistake for "cousin Annie," my sister, but the communi
cator's cousin, the rest of the passage becomes clear. But the later answer
to my question as to who this "cousin Nannie" was will have to be
interpreted from my point of view, in which the " aunt Nannie " above, the
communicator's sister, is my cousin. Lucy is her sister-in-law, not her sister.
(June 2nd, 1900).—J. H. H.]
I am your father who is speaking now.
I do not seem to be able to express all I want, but I hope to do so
. . . Yes I do. I was thinking about S a . . Sarah .
not right Maria . . No . . . There is another named . . named
Mary [S. taps word Mary on sheet with his forefinger.] of whom he speaks
also.
I think * * [undec.] is John's wife.
(S. to R. H. : "James' wife") (R. H. to S. : No. "John's wife.")
(S. to R, H. : "James wife.") (R. H. to S. : No. "John's.")
[R. H. can't read word after think.]
Do not hasten, friend.
The name is not distinct to me, yet the lady is still in the body, and that
is .
[The possible significance of this group of names is best indicated in the
following facts. Maria is the name of the wife of the John McClellan that
I know. She was a Mitchell, and a Sarah Preston, who was brought up in
the Mitchell family and treated as a member of it, died in 1895 in the town
in which this John McClellan lived, and it might be supposed that she was
present and interested in the reference to this John McClellan. Mary Ann
444 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
was the name of the sister of this John McClellan and was referred to below
(p. 446). His wife, apparently referred to here, is still living, as the passage
seems to indicate. The confusion in the reference appears in the un-
deciphered word which may be a mixture of Sarah and Maria. (J une 2nd,
1900).—J. H. H.] [See Note 56, p. 510.]
Give . . give me something, friend . . . better leave it here.
[S. puts spectacle box with contents on table.]
(R. H. to S. : Give those other things. [Putting knife on table.] That's
a favourite thing of his.)
I often hear Hettie playing .
[My sister used to play on the organ, but whether she has kept it up
since father's death I do not know. It is probable that the thought is an
automatism of his memory. But he gave the organ expressly to her.—
J. H. H.]
yes, better now.
Speak to him friend, and just let him know that thou art listening. (Yes,
I am listening carefully.)
I would like to tell you of . . . I want to . . all I wish to. I do
not believe it possible for me to hear him more distinctly. I was anxious
to speak of the foot which got injured . . injured in the accident, and it
has been on my mind for a long time. I think it is much better now.
(S. to R. H. : Now here's a chance to clear that question up.) (R. H. to
S. : Yes, do so.)
(Whose foot was it ? Whose foot was hurt on the railroad ! Whose foot
was hurt ?) F .lames it was Will's, I think Will's.
[I cannot understand this incident of the injured foot. I never knew of
any such injury to my brother Will. What I have been curious to have
made clear is the relation of the incident to the person to whom I supposed
it referred. As I have already said, my uncle "Charles " (not correct name)
died recently from just such an accident on the railway, and noticing what I
took to be the confusion about it in the previous reference to it, I asked that
it be cleared up here. But I am more in the dark than ever, because I have
no memory of such an accident to my brother.—J. H. H.]
(Well, I shall ask about it.) He got it injured, and so did I. (Yes, I
I shall ask Will about it. I did not know it.) Did you know he was on it ?
(No, I did not know it.) [See Note 57, p. 511.]
The boys were so unlike you. I do not think you often asked anything
of them, you never used to do so. (That's right.)
[This reference to my not asking about my brother is perfectly true. I
corresponded with them directly, and I very seldom, I might almost say
never, asked about them in my letters to father. It is especially interesting
to see this explanation given of my ignorance about the alleged accident to
brother Will.—J. H. H.]
You remember (Yes.) what she used to say. [This is true if the "she "
refers to my stepmother.—J. H. H.]
if the were like James . . . like . . they were like James I
would not have anything to think about but [See Note 58, p. 512] . .
how is Helen. [" Helen " is possibly Rector's partial hearing of Henrietta.
Otherwise it is meaningless. Note remark that follows.—J. H. H.]
XLI.] 445
Ap2icndLc III.
I am really too weak to think more for you, James, and they seem not to
hear me so well. Are you tired, James ? (No, say all you wish to say.) But
do you think they hear me 1 I always told you to be just, and I want you to
be so with me.
[The fact was that I was tired enough, and I feared confession would stop
the sitting, and hence not being too tired to wait for more results, I said no
to the question, and the answer to my statement is a suspicion of my truth
fulness. The answer is characteristic of him, as he knew I would endure
much without complaint when he was living.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, father, I shall, but please free your mind. I shall be patient.
Yes, father, free your mind, and I shall be patient.)
I want to tell you all . . Samuel Cooper. You remember you asked me
what I knew of him. Did you think I was no longer friend of his ? I had
several letters (S. : " little ") (R. H. : "letters") (That's right.) which
he wrote to me concerning our difference of opinion, and I think they were
with you. Have you got them !
(I shall look them up. Do you remember any other differences with
him ?) [I have commented on this in report of earlier sittings. See p. 397
and Notes 29, p. 410, and 39, p. 491).—J. H. H.]
I think I do on the subject of this very question, this . . religious
views . . his religious views.
(S. to R. H. : That's all out of the way.)
and the . . strange . . children . . and the children, I will
think it over and tell you more about them.
I am confused, James, and I cannot tell you what I wish, and I will try
again. I am going now. What is the use to try and tell you what . . .
cannot speak . . .
Friend, we will be obliged [obgiled] to let him . . him go for a while
and think over the memories.
(R. H. : Yes, there is little time left also.) (Yes, that is right.)
And when he returns he will remember better than he does now.
Clarke is here again. [This seems to be the old attempt at my uncle
again.—J. H. H.]
(Yes. I shall be glad to hear from you. Yes. I shall be glad to hear
from you.) Do you know me. (Yes. I know you and would be glad to
have you say what you can.)
Do you remember James ! [This is correct for my uncle's first name.—
J. H. H.]
(Yes. I remember James and would be glad to have the rest.) And it is
Clarke. (S. to R. H. : That's not right, you see. Not right.) [tapping
word with forefinger.]
both are here . . . are speaking to you . . (And is it James that speaks
to me ?) [R. H. did not hear all this, and said " Say that again." Repeated.]
Yes, and . . Yes there were two James and do you remember an
uncle? (Yes I remember, and Uncle James, —what . . ) Well it is he.
(Which uncle James !)
H James Mc. [Correct. —J. H. H.] (Yes, that is right.) and
a cousin John. (R. H. : Rector, how's the light !) Don't you remember us
both ? (I am not sure of cousin John.) [p. 471.]
446 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Well, I will tell you more about myself later, and we will perhaps U D
each other . . my sister Anne is here with . . yes [?] Anne .
going.
[There are some things in this passage that are ipiite correct and pertinent.
The statement that there were two Jameses is perfectly correct. One is the
James that is referred to here as Clarke, and the other the uncle named
James McClellan. But the cousin John I cannot make out. This "sister
Ann" also puzzles me very much : that is, it has no meaning whatsoever.
But my uncle James McClellan died in 187(i while I was at college.—
J. H. H.] [See Note 59, p. 513.]
All are going, as it is failing us.
[Sudden jerk of hand. Then quiet.]
It is failing us.
There are many, ami much to do.
Friend, go forth and make no haste. (R. H. : No.) Keep in the highest
and God bless thee evermore. We rest the light and return U, thee. Amen.
+ {R} Farewell.
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
I.
[Almost inarticulate whispers at first.]
Tell Hyslop I had to take him away. [Apparently much repetition of
above sentence before it was distinct.]
That's my prayer. Had to bike him away. ] want to stay. I want to
take the bonnet oft'. I want to go out. (R. H. : And stay out !)
[Looking amazedly at R. H.] Well, I thought you turned into an ape.
(R. H. : You did ?)
0 Mr. Hodgson, my fingers got all numb.
Did you hear my head when it snapped !
Introduction.
The first indications of the approaching trance which I noticed to
day were a whispering movement of the lips and then a marked stare.
Presently I noticed the tendency to arrest in her cough, which seemed
to-day to come on at first onlv as an incident of the coming trance, as
Mrs. P. showed no traces of a cough in the normal state. In a few
moments I remarked the open mouth, which soon began to appear
drawn, and then to mutter something quite inaudibly. This was soon
followed by short quick breathing which lasted for only a minute or so
when the head fell on the pillow as usual. There were then various
changes in the breathing which represented interruptions between short
quick and more prolonged breathing until it lapsed into the breathing
of deep sleep which resembled a snore just enough to suggest it but not
to produce it. This became a little calmer as the writing began, though
I noted afterwards that with change of control there was some
resumption of the heavier breathing for a moment.—J. H. H.
June 1st, 1S99.
Appendix III. 447
Comments.
There was an interesting feature in this sitting which apparently
shows a knowledge of the confusion that I have been unable to dis
entangle in my notes of the previous sitting. The McClellan family
seems to have been shut out from personal communications, and I was
left with my father who was superseded by my brother Charles and
sister Annie when he left the machine. The sitting as a whole on this
occasion is much clearer and less confused than the others. But the
most interesting feature of it is the manifest attempt to avoid the
confusion of the day before, the trance personalities actually stating
their own knowledge of it and determination to prevent it. The
whole modus operandi of the sitting showed the effect of this resolu
tion.—J. H. H.
Record of Sitting. June Ut, 1899.
Prof. J. H. H. and R. H.
[Rector writes.]
HAIL (R. H. : Hail. I . . .)
Welcome friend, all hail thee.
(R. H. : I have some . . 1 have some inquiries to make about future
sittings that it might be well to settle now.)
The light is clearer this day, and whilst it doth burn brightest . .
brightest speak thy thoughts to Him.
(R. H. : Next time Mr. D. is coming. Next week the first four days
after the Sabbath are for our friend Hyslop here.) [Assent.]
(R. H. : I have just received an earnest request from Mrs. Z. to have a
sitting for her. She sends her influences and 's, and wishes me to bring
other matters of her and her family to you. If you think it wise, I thought
perhaps the day before the Sabbath might be given to this.)
We will meet thee on that day for her, and we will not fail her. + .
(R. H. : Amen.)
(Then Mrs. A. wishes the light to go to her for the sixth after coming,
[hand moves as if to hear better] for the sixth after coming Sabbath, and
spend the night with her and return here on the Sabbath to be ready for the
next day not yet settled. Mrs. A. has changed her home, and it is further
away.)
Is it where we took the light when thou wert absent, friend 1
(R. H. : Probably it was, but I am not sure.)
W . . .
(R. H. : It is, I believe, near other friends of the light named Y .)
We will take the light on the sixth, but not on the Sabbath, and to no
one will we return on that day, as we have heretofore stated. Stated. U D.
(R. H. : Yes. I understand.)
We have our work as thou hast thine. (R. H. : Yes, I understand. The
light can sit on the sixth, but not on the Sabbath, and can return home on
the Sabbath.) [Cross in air.] Yes, and this only. To no one will we return
on the Sabbath. (R. H. : Good.)
448 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(R. H. : Then . . . ) [Hand talks much with Sp.]
(R. H. : Then Mrs. C. is apparently much anxious to know when she can
see you next. There would be the fifth after next Sabbath not yet filled.)
We feel that we have given so much help to Mrs. D. that it will not be
necessary for us to meet either Mrs. or Mr. D. after the next time. Con
sequently if any inquiries are made from there kindly say it will not be
necessary for a time. U D.
(R. H. : Yes. I understand.)
And we will meet her on the fifth after coming Sabbath.
But, dear friend, we do not wish any mortal to interfere with [Hand
pointed to Sp.] the spirit named Hyslop . . named . . (R. H. : No,
indeed.)
[This is a curious allusion perfectly consistent with the original plan of
the sittings arranged by the trance personalities. —J. H. H.]
and until he is quite clear and conscious it would be better to exclude all
inquiries + .
(R. H. : Yes. Amen. Any further arrangements can be left till the day
before the coming Sabbath.)
Yes, and better so.
[Hand moves towards S. as if to ask whether he had anything to say.]
(R. H. to S. : Say something.) (I am glad to be here this day.)
HAIL. And to thee we return this day and no further arrangements
will be necessary at present, but rest thy body well until we return to thee
after coming Sabbath.
And we wish to say that we were somewhat confused as [at ?] the closing
of the last meeting owing to the light failing us. [This is a very interesting
and true statement to be volunteered.—J. H. H.]
We have also various friends of thine who are present, and at times more
or less confuse us. Thy dear father is a very active and arduous [endless ?]
[S. touches R. H., and indicates by pointing that he could not decipher
arduous.] worker . . indefatigable worker [This describes father
perfectly. He always worked hard at anything he attempted.—J. H. H.]
and since . . . ever since he has become conscious of thy desires he hath
returned almost daily with more or less friends here. U D.
(Yes, I U D. Yes, I U D.)
Well, James, it is time for me to return. Do you hear Him . . . (R. H.
to S. : That's Imperator.) whispering to me and telling me how to reach
you clearly 1 I long to remember more of my earthly experiences, and if I
can I will leave nothing unspoken. More or less sad was my coming here, a
condition from which [written " condition whi," then from inserted above
between condition and tohi, then eh added to whi.] (S. to R. H. : Mark the
completion of that which.) I am slowly recovering.
[This stopping in the middle of the word "which " to insert the " from "
above the line, and then coming back to the right place and completing the
" which " without trying to rewrite it, considering that Mrs. P. was not only
unconscious, but had her head turned away, was a wonderfully interesting
performance. —J. H. H.]
I meant . . intended [the t of mennt not completed, then intended
superposed on meant] I intended to refer to uncle John . . U . .
XLI.] 449
Appendix III.
but I was somewhat dazed, James. Do you U D me. (Yes. Yes, I U D.)
I heard that very well. I wanted to refer to this for the purpose of clearing
matters up.
(Yes, I am glad to have uncle John mentioned.)
and there is another thing to which I would refer, and that is the
university.
(Yes, I U D, but go on.)
It was there, James, that I had you go, and the others I will refer to
soon.
[I had supposed at the time of the sitting, as the note then made and now
deleted indicated, that this " uncle John" was a confused reference to the
John McClellan whom I had known, and who was the treasurer of the
university to which father had sent me for my education. But it is not
certain that this John McClellan was intended by the reference, especially
as it is apparent that the communicator is governed by association in
referring to the incident of sending me to the university as " another thing."
(June 2nd, 1900.)—J. H. H.] [Cf. Footnote, p. 472.]
I am all right while + is near me, and my memory comes back to me
clearer. I have given mention as you doubtless understand, to several
persons, places, etc., which are not quite clear, and before I go on, if you
will refer to those which perplex you most I will do my best to correct them
and perhaps I can recall some of them myself. I intended to refer to the
McLellen family one by one and keep all of their names quite [page turned
with the words of R. H. "One moment please." Hand listens to R. H.]
(R. H. : All right.) (S. : All right.) clear, but at times my head bothers
me, and I have to return to regain myself. Do you remember our old home
in the little town of C. ? [ ?]
(R. H. : C, is that?)
Yes, and where I with Aunt Nannie lived after your mother [your inserted
above, between after and mother, after mother was written.] left us and we
brought you up.
[This is an interesting passage beginning with the reference to " our old
home." This very expression is consistent with the fact of his removal to
another State, alluded to as "out West " in earlier sittings. The letter C is
not correct for the name of the town possibly meant. The name of the
town was Xenia, pronounced "Ze-nia,"and we may suppose that Rector
interpreted the sound Z as the pronunciation of C (see), assuming, as there
is evidence to believe, that phonetic analogies are admissible in this
problem. Father did not actually live " in " this town. My aunt Nannie
did. Our house was a few miles from it, but Xenia was our regular post-
office and was always referred to as our birth-place, etc. The statement
that my aunt Nannie lived with us, at this " old home " after my mother's
death, is every word of it true, and the time relations are perfectly accurate.
(June 2nd, 1900.)—J. H. H.]
I am in no way confused, but my mind is clear and I am very close [not
read at once] to you and an . . close ... I do not think I have ever
been so clear before.
He [Imperator] is assisting me in every way, keeping . . assisting
. . all quiet, and the names of your mother's family are all . . •
2 G
450 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
mother's [the previous mother's had been read as brother't] . . known
to me.
I intended to clear up about James and John McLellen before I left.
Speak, James, if you . . (R. H. to S. : Now's your chance.) (Yes,
father, I hear clearly and remember the old home and Aunt Nannie bringing
us up.)
And the special . . special . . care I had with one of the boys.
It is all right in my mind now. I only refer to it that you may know it is I
your father, and no one else who is speaking, and . . . (Yes.)
[This is a very pertinent allusion, especially the italicising of the word
''care." It is of course indefinite, but every member of the family would
recognise the reference very quickly. The facts are too personal to be
narrated here, because of their unpleasantness. --J. H. H.]
I also wanted Clarke for a mere recollection, not because I had any
special interest otherwise. [Name not right. Cf. pp. 422, 431.—J. H. H.]
(Yes. Yes, I know, and . . did he have anything to do with your
sister ?)
Oh yes, only by marriage. [Correct relation.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, that, that is right, and is he on this side or not !)
Yes, he is and has been for some time. (R. H. to S. : That's not clear.)
I often see him. [The implication is correct.—J. H. H.]
(Yes. Do you mean that he is on your side ?) He is here. [Correct—
J. H. H.]
(Yes. What brought him there t What brought him to your side ?)
Why do you not remember of his coming here suddenly, James ?
(Yes.) [Correct about his sudden death.—J. H. H.]
It was pneumonia. [Not correct. But it would be true of the uncle
James McClellan just previously mentioned.—J. H. H.]
(Yes. I remember his sudden coming, but I wanted to see if something
said about him before was what you meant.)
What it was, due to it, and if I mistake not you remember it very well.
(Yes. I remember it, but do not worry about it now. It will come
again. You can go on.)
I only was disturbed because of the accident that I could not make clear,
and Charles interrupted me somewhat because he had afever, and yet we are
not suffering with anything, don't think that, James, will you ?
(No, I shall not, it is all right.)
[The incidents in this reference confirm my interpretation of the real
meaning of the name Clarke so frequently mentioned before. The mistake
of pneumonia is very singular, and it is interesting to see that there seems to
be some consciousness of the confusion involved in it. Also there seems to be
a half reproach administered to me for wanting him to tell me what I could
be supposed to know already, as if it were only the purpose of my experi
ments to deal with his own memories ; if not reproach there is evident
wonder. If the word accident could be taken for all that it suggests in con
nection with both my uncle's sudden death and the statements made about it
in previous sittings, it would have special significance.
The statement that brother Charles had a fever is correct, as the notes to
my first and third sittings, December 23rd and 25th, 1898, quite clearly
xu.] 45 1
Appendix III.
show. The reference to his interruption is curious. It appears as if they
thought I was asking for the illness with which my brother Charles died, as
mentioned in previous notes. —J. H. H.J [See Note 60, p. 513.]
and .... Nanie will feel better to know this. She was one of
the best of sisters. [Cf. p. 343.]
[I see no pertinence or meaning to this allusion to " sister Nannie.'' In
this connection the reference should have been to another sister, namely,
Eliza, mentioned at earlier sittings (pp. 343, 449). The description of
"Nanie" as the best of sisters is exactly father's opinion of both of them.
—J. H. H.]
(Yes. Yes. I shall tell her. You re . . . have you seen any one
that Aunt Nannie is interested in !)
Yes, I intend telling you about him before I get through, James. (Yes,
all right. Go on and free your mind and I shall not interrupt you.)
but I like to hear you speak. I see the .
Excuse me a moment ... I will return in a moment.
+ takes him away for a moment. Will return again soon. I see you
James, I am your sister Annie .
[The appearance of my sister Annie was accompanied by a marked
change in the handwriting and much more rapid execution. There was no
hesitation and it seemed as if she had no difficulty in thinking coherently.
When my father returned, the writing changed back to the more deliberate
style and less distinct character in respect of the letters.—J. H. H.]
(I . . . ) and I am very glad to meet you here. Pa is better now.
[" Pa " was always the way that we children addressed or spoke of father,
until a late date when I began to call him " father." I have not called him
" Pa " for twenty-two years. I stopped it about the time I left college, but
the others still continued it for a long time. But my sister Annie in life
never used any other expression but " Pa."—J. H. H.]
(Yes. I am very glad to see you.)
Do you remember when 1 came to this life, James ? (Yes, I remember
very well.) And did you know I did not see you ? (Yes. I think so.)
[This last statement about not seeing me, and my answer, are not strictly
true, but the former is near enough to the truth for me to give this answer in
order not to introduce any confusion into the writing, as I thought a
negative answer might do. Some idea of how near the truth it is will he
observed when I say that I have but one distinct recollection of her. I
remember on the evening of my brother Charles' funeral, he having died
twelve days before her, that as we sat down at the table to supper, Anna was
standing between the table and the door, and mother said something to her,
I think, about coming to supper. She was perfectly well apparently at the
time, none of us having yet shown any symptoms of the scarlet fever. But
she replied to mother in a clear innocent tone, " I am going to get sick and
die." The impression that the statement made on mother, with the
awe and indefinable feelings which the death of my brother had excited in
me, stamped the incident indelibly on my memory. I was eleven years old
at the time. My sister was only four, I think, or thereabouts. I have
refused to look up the fact in order not to expose any more than is possible
to the telepathic theory. But if I cannot now recall anything more than the
2 a 2
452 [I'.VKT
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
above incident about her, though I was eleven years old when she died, it
ought not to be wondered that she, being only four when she died, should
say that she did not see me.—J. H. H.] [If we could take the liberty to con
jecture that my sister did not see me when she was dying, since her death as
a fact was very gradual, we might obtain a meaning that would satisfy another
possibility. But I am very doubtful about the rights of such an interpreta
tion (June 2nd, 1900).—J. H. H.]
But I thought of you a great deal and I am thinking now of Corrn [?] Ca
lora [?] what father calls [calles] her . . not quite right . . . C 1 a
. . C or o [?]. [This is apparently an attempt to give the name of my
aunt Cornelia (June 2nd, 1900.—J. H. H.]
[See Note 61, p. 514.]
You cannot help me, can you, I mean mother.
[Apparently the words, "You cannot help me, can you," were addressed to
her mother.]
Jennie and L U C y . [See Note 62, p. 514.]
(I remember Lucy, but not Jennie. I think there is a Jennie, but what
Lucy is this !)
She is on my mind at this moment, and I want to send a message to her.
(Very well, send.)
Do you remember grandmother ? (Yes, I remember her well.)
L U Cy is there and I am just thinking of tier, father knows about her
better than I do.
Yes, I have waited all these years to find you, and I helped father when
he came here. I feel it because I do not remember more for you, James, but
you have changed also. [Interesting statement like one made before (p. IS31).
—J. H. H.] I had a sister-in-law, so I am trying to think of her. What is it
you call her, James, tell ; no you better not, I will tell you pretty soon .
very soon. I am sorry I cannot say more, but I hope to some day. [See Note
62, p. 514.]
What is meant by Peter ? [No meaning.—J. H. H.]
Was it the dog George had ? (I do not remember. I do not remember
this.) Can't you ask him 1 (Yes, I shall ask him about it.) [See Note
63, ]). 515.]
[Hand indicates fresh arrival.]
Yes, I am back again now, I heard you say it was strange I could not
tell you more about Cooper. What did you mean by that 1
(I wanted to knowif you remembered anything about the dogs killing sheep.)
[Excitement in hand.]
[This excitement so evident in the hand was very interesting, especially
when taken in connection with the sudden recollection of what I referred to,
the wonder at my question and the statement that the communicator had
forgotten it.—J. H. H.]
Oh, I should think I did, yes I do very well, but I have forgotten all about
it, this was what we had the discussion about [Correct.—J. H. H.] and I made
it unpleas . for him . . [Perfectly correct, except that the blame
was not on father's part. —J. H. H.] yes, very well, James, but just what
you asked me this for I could not quite make out, as he was no relation of
mine.—[Correct.—J. H. H.]
XLI.] 453
Appendix III.
I remember it all very well, and if I could have recalled what you were
getting at I would have tried to tell you, but I see him seldom, and I referred
to him only because you asked me of him . . . about him.
(Yes. All right, father, I wanted it for my scientific purpose.)
Oh, yes. Why did you not just remind me of it ? Well I will work for
you, and to remind you of other things quite as good. But don't hurry me,
and in time I can talk to you just as I used to.
[This whole passage regarding the incident I had recalled and the mental
status indicated by the reply, though not containing evidential matter that
must impress the reader without elaborate explanation, is perhaps as impor
tant as anything in my sittings. Let me first narrate the facts and then come
to my purpose in suggesting it, with the comments that are necessary.
I remember that one winter night some dog or dogs killed a number of
our sheep, and the next morning we tried to track the dogs through the
snow to their homes. I took one track in one direction, and father followed
another in a different direction. But it happened that I was thrown off the
fresh trail by an older one in the snow, I being too young and ignorant to
distinguish carefully, and failed to remark that the dog I had been set to
trace had turned off to his home at a certain point, the dog being Samuel
Cooper's. I followed the old trail to another neighbour's. But when father
made the search after me, he found my mistake, and as Mr. Cooper had seen
me following the trail to another neighbour the fact prevented father from
throwing the blame unmistakably on the dog evidently at fault. Hence
nothing could be done, I receiving some reproach for my carelessness. But
later in the spring the dogs attacked the sheep a second time. What
followed this event I shall not describe at present, but add to the account if
anything further is said about the matter. It will suffice to say at present
that the events that immediately followed were caused by the dissension be
tween the two, they being immediate neighbours. (These incidents which
I omit for personal reasons, and which were of a nature to impress my
memory indelibly were far more interesting than those that I have mentioned,
to say nothing of the clearness with which they stand out in my memory.)
Knowing how innocent my father was in the case, and how much he felt any
disagreement with his neighbours, it occurred to me that I might test his
personal identity by simply asking a question about Samuel Cooper, which I
sent to Dr. Hodgson for one of his sittings. The confused and confusing
result has already been remarked. This was made "worse confounded"
by the mention of John in connection with his name at the first of the
present series of sittings, May 29th, when I came later to suspect that this
was not the John Cooper for whom I thought it intended at the time.
Later, however, I came to suspect that this John possibly referred to another
person, and all the allusions made to Mr. Cooper took on an entirely new
possibility and import. I suspected this at the sitting previous to the present
one, and the statement that he, Samuel Cooper, " was no relation of mine "
supports this suspicion. It seems to imply that father expected me to ask
about my relatives only. But it is an interesting fact to see that he correctly
states that Samuel Cooper is not a relative of his, and the statement occurs
in an interesting connection, though it is equally true of the Cooper
that he evidently had in mind all along. The whole passage is a fine
454- [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
vrnisemblance of reality in conversation and thinking. The recognition, the
correction, the wonder indicated regarding my question, and the final
appreciation of my object are incidents in a unity of consciousness that is
beyond all simple explanation short of charity for the spiritistic theory,
to say nothing of the two correct incidents in it, that about the discussion
and the denial of relationship with the person named. The reader may reflect
on this incident when applying telepathy.—J. H. H.]
Do you remember where George used to go, and it did not please me very
well !
(Yes, I remember. I remember it, and shall be glad to have you say all
you wish about it.)
You see the hours I spent over him and with him, the advice I gave him,
and very little good at times.
[This pissage is too indefinite for evidential purposes, but it expresses
exactly my father's thought and actions in regard to a certain event, which,
though not reflecting on my brother unfavourably, was connected with his
welfare in a way that my brother may not have appreciated at the time. —
J. H.~H.]
I remember F R ank, and I also recall the time he caught the fish. Do you
remember that Sunday ? [I know nothing of this. —J. H. H.] (No, I do not
remember it. But I think Frank will remember it.) Yes I refer to him as
he knew about it and the trouble it gave me. (Yes, I shall write to Frank
about it.) Can't you see him i Oh I see . . you will be going soon.
[See Note 64, p. 51(i.]
(Yes, that is right, that is right.)
Yes. Well, wait and ask him if . . as it will be better to ask .
as, as, it will be better to ask him . . and the .
(R. H. : Rather than write ?) [Assent.]
Mr. Hyslop says so.
(Yes, I will talk to him about it.)
And there was a place where he used to go and spend evenings, and both
his aunt and myself did our best to keep him out of temptation.
(Yes. I am glad to hear that. You mean Frank I think !)
[I know nothing of this incident. I left home before Frank was old
enough to make social calls.—J. H. H.]
Yes, I do mean Frank, but do you remember anything about War (Yes.
I do. Go on.) and the mental anxiety I passed through at that time (Yes.
I remember it very well indeed. ) and . . and my leg ! I am getting tired
James, will rest a moment and return.
[This reference to the " war," to the mental anxiety at that time, and to
his leg is profoundly interesting. Father was very strongly opposed to
slavery and passed through a period of intense mental anxiety and fears for
his country at the time. He would probably have volunteered for the
service had not the injury to his leg which I have described in a previous
note rendered him unfit for a soldier. But near the close of the war, when
he could perforin a slight service as a soldier without risk to his health, he
went to aid in the prevention of Morgan's raid in Ohio. This service did not
require any long marching, but only some militia duties.—J. H. H.]
This is a very heavy atmosphere to be in.
Appendix III. 455
What about Aunt LUCY ? (Aunt Lucy who 1)
Charles is speaking this, and he came here quite young . . young.
She was related to the other mother, wasn't she ?
(Do you mean the mother on this side ?) Yes, I do. (Well, can
you tell what her other name is ?) John can as he knows her very
well. Ask him when he gets here, if that is you, James. (Very well. That
is all right.)
And what happened to the chimney after I left.
Do you not remember ? (Yes. I remember it.) And wasn't it taken
down ? (Yes, I think so.)
I heard father talking about it to mother some time ago ... I mean
the chimney, James. (Yes. Yes. I remember it very well.)
Well, all right, I am not worrying about it, only I remember how cold it
was before I left.
Going out now.
[We had no aunt Lucy, though at the time of the sitting I thought we had
a second cousin by this name. I can only suppose that my brother Charles
mistook the relationship when trying to give the name of Lucy McClellan, in
reality his cousin by marriage. The reference to her being related to
" the other mother," if it applies to my stepmother, is false, but it may be a
conjecture of Rector's, as he apparently makes the previous statement. The
statement that John knows her very well is unverifiable, and indeed extremely
dubious, though I admit it possible. (June 2nd, 1900.).—J. H. H.]
[The reference to the chimney is interesting, though I could hardly treat
it as evidential if it came from my brother Charles alone, because he died
many years before the incident occurred. But it is peculiarly pertinent to
have it come thus indirectly from father and to have my mother connected
with it in this way, as it appears to be a story told her for information. Now
the facts are these. When we built our house in 18fi0 or 1861, the chimney
on the kitchen was not high enough to prevent the interference of the winds,
coming against the main part of the house or over it, with the draught in it
necessary to support the fire in the cooking stove. The consequence was
that, after trial, it had to be built up to reach above the second storey of
the house, and was a solitary chimney, perhaps twenty or twenty-five feet
above the roof of the kitchen. It did not give a very artistic appearance to
the house, but had to be endured. About 1884 a cyclone overthrew it, and
it was rebuilt. The reader can determine the pertinence of the refer
ence, and more especially the form which it takes as having been told
mother by father. She died long before the accident to the chimney. Are
we to suppose a consultation between them for something peculiar and
specially evidential to tell me ?
The allusion to the cold weather before he left is pertinent, as a note in
my first sitting shows. (C/. p. 310.) My brother died in the winter when
the snow was on the ground.—J. H. H.] [See Note 65, p. 517.]
Yes my son, all the medicine in the material world could not have kept
me in it, as it was time for me to come. Go home, James, and see them all,
and do not miss me, but try and feel if you can that I am somewhere near
you.
(Yes, father, I shall feel that you are near.)
45C [part
J. H. Hyrtop, Ph.D.
And God keep you, as He always has, one of the best of sons. I can
now speak what I could not often say when I was with you there, but you
never gave me much anxiety.
[Father did feel much concern for me during the " Sturm und Drang "
period of my religious doubts, but it is probably true in every other respect
that he had little anxiety about me.—J. H. H.]
I seem to go kick to the old days more than anything else. Don't say
you wonder at this, that, and the other, but wait, be ]Kitient—all sill will be
clear to you some day. If I fail in my memory, do not say well if that is
father he must have forgotten a great deal. I really forget nothing, but I
find it not easy to tell it all to you. I feel as though I should choke at times
and I fail to express my thoughts, but if fragmentary try and think the best
of them, will you !
(Yes. I shall try and think the best of them.)
From day to day I will grow stronger while speaking, and then you will
know me as I am. (Yes, father, I think so. You have done very well
indeed to-day.)
I must leave you soon they say, so accept my little helps and
remember me as your * * [undec.] father R. H. Hyslop [?] [The
last few words much cramped and letters somewhat written over one another.
—R. H.]
Gone. Adieu [ !]
[Father had no middle initial. His name was simply R. Hyslop, or
Robert Hyslop, when written in full. His name had already been given in
full at the sitting of December 27th. I suppose the intention here was to
give only the initials R. H., and that finally the H. was expanded into
Hyslop. —J. H. H.] [He used to sign his letters to me, "your affectionate
Pa," not "father." I do not know whether the undeciphered words are an
attempt to write the first two words of this phrase or not. (May 4th, 1901.)
—J. H. H.]
Speak, friend, and I will take any message to him.
(Yes, tell father he has done so well to-day, and I shall be glad to hear
from him again. I was very glad to see his name written here.) Amen.
Friend, come to us and fear not. (R. H. : Amen.)
Now, may the grace of God rest on thee. (R. H. : Amen.)
Farewell. + Imperator {R}
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
I.
[Almost inarticulate, as yesterday. Mrs. P.'s tongue seemed almost
immobile.]
Hodgson [ ? ] . . . . Hyslop to remain [!] . . . Yes, I . .
I'm not dead . . . Tell James [ !] I'm not dead.
I don't know that * * [ ?]
There's Imperator and Rector, and a man that's got a scar on his face.
I don't want to go. Oh oo-—oo ? Awful dark after I left. Who's that little
short man ? Who's that little old gentleman that whispers !
[The last sentence describes the condition of father's voice during the last
three years of his life. Paralysis of the larynx made it impossible for him to
speak above a whisper. (December 10th, 1899).—J. H. H.]
XLI.] 457
Appendix III.
[Extract from sitting of June 3rd, 1899.]
[Rector writing. Sitter, R. H.]
June 3rd, 1899.
* * * We will meet Hyslop on the first four days after coming
Sabbath, and Mrs. C. on the fifth, take the light to Mrs. on the sixth.
Sabbath we return not. First after Sabbath we have to give to some worthy
mortal. Speak.
(You wish to cease with Hyslop after the next four !)
We would like to continue until his friends on our side are quite clear,
but we would prefer to discontinue until after we have restored the light
somewhat, as we prefer the best conditions for his friends, who are worthy
and intelligent spirits, but who cannot do their best under the present
conditions. Yet we are helping them greatly, and will see that they do the
best that is possible at this time. The reason of his father's being so clear
at first was due in chief to the clearness of the light. U D. (Yes.)
Consequently we will cease after four meetings, and return for greater
work later. * * *
[Mrs. Piper had averaged about twenty sittings a month for the previous
seven months.—R. H.]
[Among the utterances of Mrs. Piper's " subliminal " as she was coming
out of trance were: "Say to Hyslop all is well." * * * " Stainton
Moses helping Hyslop."] [Cf. p. 340.]
Introduction.
The interesting feature of the approaching trance to-day which
came with the usual symptoms that I have previously described, was
the fact that it came on while Mrs. Piper was talking to Dr. Hodgson
about a request from a certain person to have a sitting. She talked
about it for some time and gradually ceased this as Dr. Hodgson was
talking, and began to show the movements of the hand and eyes which
indicate the trance. As she was becoming entranced, and while staring
into space she nodded her head several times as if assenting to some
thing, and soon her head fell on the pillow.i—J. H. H.
June 5th, 1899.
Record of Sitting, June oth, 1899.
Prof. J. H. Hyslop and R. H.
[Rector writes.]
HAIL (R, H. : Hail.)
Friends of earth, we are pleased to meet thee on this day as it is God's
will, and may peace be with thee throughout and His blessings on thee -I- R.
All is as we would have it and we will watcli over aU.
(We welcome thee this day.) Amen.
i As there were no special reasons for taking notes on the symptoms of the trance
at the time, the present introductory note and those of the three following sittings
were written out from memory after returning to the office on the same day, as the
dates show.—J. H. H.
458 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
One word to thee and we will go on. (R. H. : Yes.)
(R. H. to S. : I think they mean a word to me.)
The time to which we have given mention for Mrs. M. must be kept by
her and . . as it is . . as it is most imperative.
[Special days had been previously appointed for sittings for Mrs. M.
(See Proceedings S. P. R., Vol. XIII., pp. 341-349, and also this Report,
p. 299), and I was not aware that she desired any change, but a special
delivery letter reached me immediately after the sitting, requesting an
alteration of the time. Her request was apparently answered here by
anticipation. Professor Hyslop was present when the letter came, and I
showed it to him, and we intended to preserve it carefully, but it was pre
sumably mislaid, and has not yet been found. (May 8th, 1901.) R.H.]
[I saw and read the above mentioned letter at the time. (May 9th, 1901 .)
-J. H. H.]
(R. H : Very good. I understand.)
Say this and fail not. + R. (R. H. : Yes. I will notify her at once.)
The mother is in our charge and will be most judiciously caredfor. Good
day.
(R. H. : Good day.) F I H M. [Fragmentary incomplete attempt at
initials of Mr. M.]
Well, James [agitation in hand.] J [and scrawl] (R. H. to S. : Say
something.) (Yes, mother, good morning. Be calm and go on.) [Hand
rests on S.'s hand for two or three moments.]
I am very pleased to meet you here, my dear little son, after all the
years that have passed since I left you a little boy. [Correct allusion.—
J. H. H.] I remember it so well and I have watched over you many a day
since then.
My thoughts are clearing daily and as I look back it helps me greatly
. . . do you remember when Annie came to me . to nw, an .
and told me you were here. If you can recall this you will know the first of
my returning here to find you . . [not all read.] . . know the .
you will know it was the first . . . first.
and as she recalled you to my mind I have unceasingly sought to find you.
(R. H. to S. : How did you interpret that ?)
It was your sister Annie and not your father who first saw you.
[The only interest that can attach to this statement is that it seems to
coincide with the fact that my sister Annie's name was the first relevant one
given at my first sitting (December 23rd, 1898). I cannot use it as evidence,
nor can I insist that the interpretation is even a probable one, but only that
there is a coincidence at least. —J. H. H.]
I am going to tell you something you have forgotten after I become
. I become clear when . M. A. H. . when (R. H. :
" When I become clear.") (Yes, mother, I shall be glad to hear it.)
Are you feeling well, James ? (Yes. I feel very well indeed.) No
headache ? (No. I have no headache.)
[My mother died when I was fifteen. When I was between ten and four
teen years old, I very often had severe headaches, and my mother always
gave me soda for them. The incident is precisely such as my mother would
recall.^J. H. H.]
XLI.] 459
Appendix III.
Glad I am to hear this because the good saints here have been praying for
you of late. R.
It is I your father who is speaking. Cannot you hear me, James i
(Yes, father, I hear. I am glad to see you this morning.)
I am very glad also. Now let me tell you one thing more and that is
about the little errors which I may make when speaking with you. I think
many things all at once and when I try to give mention to them I fail some
what. Do you remember the school teacher I referred to a few days ago ?
(Yes, I remember and shall be glad to have you go on.)
He has been more anxious to tell you what I had on my mind concerning
him.
[This possibly refers to the incident told to Dr. Hodgson (sitting of
February 22nd). It is strange to see the statement that it was only a few
days ago. But the distinction in time coincides with what appears to be the
habit of alleged communicators in the Piper case. The statement here im
plying that this teacher is not living is equivocal. I cannot tell whether it
comes from Rector or father. The sudden disappearance of father and
appearance of my uncle makes it probable, perhaps, that it is Rector's state
ment regarding father's intention to free his mind regarding this teacher. I
do not remember the teacher's name, and do not know whether he is living
or not.—J. H. H.]
Here is Clarke. (Good morning, uncle, I shall be glad to hear from you.)
Give my love to N.
[Hand tightens in excitement, and pencil is nearly forced out from
fingers. R. H. lays his hand gently over it.]
Give . . . [Sp.—probably Imperator—enjoins apparently, and hand
becomes quiet and bows.]
Give my love to Nan.
[The hesitation after "Nan " was written was an interesting fact. It would
appear to have been more natural for my uncle to mention his widow Eliza.
There appeared to be in this hesitation a consciousness of a mistake, if the
pause can be so interpreted. But as he had mentioned his wife Eliza before
more than once it may seem a reasonable deviation here to refer to his sister-
in-law, whose name is Nannie, the aunt Nannie of this record.—J. H. H.]
[Note 95, p. 536.]
And let me think a moment. I am a little anxious first to tell you about
yourself.
I left so suddenly I had no time for anything. [Correct.—J. H. H.]
[Read incorrectly by S. R. H. reads correctly.] (S. to R. H. : I see.)
I am all right now, only my head troubles me when speaking. Wh .
Wait for ine . . for me.
And do you remember Rice (R. H. : Rice?) [Assent.] [Then hand
dissents violently.] (R. H. : No.)
Yes . P i e ce [?] Pierce. I say Pierce . . D.
(S. to R. II. : I don't remember him.) (R. H. to S. : Say so.)
(No, I do not remember him, but you may say something about him and I
shall enquire.)
D R. Pierce. L i d i a L i d a . . LI . . L i d a.
(Yes, I remember L i d a. What relation is she to me ?)
460 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Annie and she are cousins, Lida Aunt. (Yes, which Annie is cousin of
her ?) There is a sister Annie and a cousin Annie and aunt Lida.
She was an aunt to James Hyslop if I remember rightly and there is a
sister in the body by that name. (Yes. Yes.)
[I do not know this Dr. Pierce. I know a physician by a different name
who may have been my uncle's doctor. The name Rice came nearer what it
is than Pierce. The physician in mind was also my father's doctor both on
his deathbed and when he lived in Ohio. (See Note 66, p. 517.)
The truth and confusion in this passage are most interesting incidents. I
shall first state the facte, and we can then examine the difficulties. I have a
sister whom we call Lida. My aunt, after whom my sister was named, and
who was the wife of the communicator and still living, was called Eliza.
My uncle in speaking of her and to her always abbreviated the name to Liza.
My sister, proper name Eliza, was called Lida for the very purpose of dis
tinguishing her from this very aunt. From my uncle's habit, therefore, of
abbreviating his wife's name to Liza, and from the proximity of the two
names in the message, we can understand the form that my aunt's name
takes in the writing. If a similar mistake occurred in the reference to
"cousin Annie" I can interpret it as intended for "cousin Nannie," the
same Nannie that appears in the communications of my cousin R. H. McClellan,
she being the latter's sister and also a frequent visitor and intimate friend
of my uncle and aunt. Otherwise I must consider it as without significance,
as I have no cousin Annie. The relation between this "aunt Lida " and
myself as here stated is correct, and so is the statement that the other Lida
is my sister. (June 2nd, 1900.)—J. H. H.] [Note 95, p. 536.]
Which is the one If., failed to mention. . . [Correct.—J. H. H.]
And I had to come to straighten out uncle Clark's mind, James.
1 am your father. I had to come and help Uncle Clarke straighten out
his thoughts.
[This sudden appearance of my father, with the wonderfully abbreviated
reference to my sister Lida as the one he had Jailed to mention, is very
striking. Not less so is the reference to Uncle Clarke (name not correct,
though evident to me) with the statement that he had come to "straighten
out his thoughts."—J. H. H.]
I am still here, and I will remain as long as 1 possibly can.
(Yes, I am glad to hear that. Please go on.) I wanted to speak of
her myself, James. (Yes, that is right.) And I wanted to hear her sing.
Do you hear me clearly ! (Yes.)
I know he ... I know you will remember the organ.
(Yes. I remember it.) And I was just thinking of our Sunday evenings
at home. (Yes.)
Yes, although time has changed those days they are still lingering in my
memory. (Yes. I remember them. Please go on.)
And I remember our little family circle very well. You see I go back
some time ago for the purpose of recalling incidents which took place when
you were one of them. I am not dreaming, my son, but I am quite clear and
near. I had no idea at first what you really wished of me, then it all came
to me when you said [hand indicates R. H.] well how would you have James
know it was you. [Hand moves towards R. H.]
XLI.] 461
Appendix III.
(R. H. : Yes, I said that.) Yes, you said that.
[This recollection and reference to Dr. Hodgson is a most interesting
one, though perhaps not so remarkable on the spirit theory. On February
7th at a sitting at which I was not present Dr. Hodgson explained the
meaning of this work to my father, and asked him what he would expect of
me in like circumstances (See p. 374).—J. H. H.]
I remember the organ and our singing, the ... oh what was that
hymn, James, we used to sing so often ?
(Keep calm. It will come all right.)
N [?] . . . well I will think of it presently, and . . is it all clear
to you, or are you confused '?
(No, I am not confused, but we would like to see it written out here
when you can think of it.)
[The mark put down as a capital letter N might be an attempt to make
another character altogether. The evidence is that it differs in some features
from the usual capital N. But I cannot entertain any safe conjectures as to
what was intended. (June 3rd, 1900.)—J. H. H.]
Oh, yes, I think I U D. [Interesting as probably indicating an apprecia
tion of my scientific object.—J. H. H.]
My dear [S. makes some ejaculatory sound which I did not
catch.—R. H.]
[Pause. Hand talks with Sp.] Yes I do . . . Very well . .
I will not try until I am released, and then I will know it and come and say
it for him. (Yes.)
[The reference to the organ and our singing is correct, if we could separate
it from the reference to the hymn. The reference to "that hymn," when
taken in connection with the mention of the organ, would present inter
esting possibilities to most persons. But father would neither use the word
" hymn " in this connection, nor imply that he either sang hymns or used
the organ for any purpose of instrumental worship. He was always opposed
to instrumental music in worship of any kind. But it is perfectly pertinent
to mention a certain "hymn" which "we used to sing so often." I could
name what would fit the case, but I shall wait to see what is done in the
future. (What I had in my mind here was the 23rd Psalm. June 3rd,
1900.)—J. H. H.] [Cf. pp. 476-477.]
Yes. Oh . . what has Will done with the flute (R. H. : " Flute."
"What has Will done with the flute?") [S. shakes his head negatively.]
flu . . flute . . not flute, I . . oh, dear, I know so well what I
mean . . fid . . fiddle . . fiddle.
(I do not know, but I think you are thinking of another brother and
another musical instrument.)
Yes, I think I am thinking of George. (That is right.) and his C.
. . . Vial . .
it is my fault . . . [R. H. puts brown knife on table.]
I am thinking of George and his . . the instrument he used to
play . . but the name has gone. [Hand sways in air and moves
fingers suggesting playing concertina.] [The previous note was made at
the moment during the sitting by me, but when S. reminded me, just
after the sitting, of the incident, and said it was the guitar, I recognised
462 [PAKT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
that the movement of the hand fitted the guitar and not the cuncert'out.
—R. H.]
(S. to R. H. : Look at that hand.) (Do not bother about the name now.
I know exactly what you meant.)
Yes, all right. After I go out I will return and recall it. I feel I must
go for a moment.
[This passage beginning with the reference to a "flute " was remarkable
for its dramatic feature and for the apparent testimony which it affords in
regard to the difficulties of communicating. When the word " fiddle " came
out, I at once suspected what was meant, but was not sure that it might not
apply to brother Will, though I had no memory of such a thing, as it was
highly improbable. But it at once flashed on my mind what was intended
and I made the reference to another brother without suggesting the name.
The immediate mention of George shows both the correct name and the
correct conception of the relation involved in the thought of the musical
instrument. As soon as the letter C was written, I saw that the sound indi
cated an approximation to the first letter of the name of the instrument in
mind, and when "Vial" was written I was satisfied and was going to
suggest that this was enough, when Rector spontaneously recognised
that violin was wrong and assumed the fault himself. Then there began
the most remarkable attempt on the part of Mrs. P.'s hand to imitate
the movements of a player when playing on a guitar that one could
imagine possible under the circumstances. It swayed slightly and moved
the fingers as if picking the strings, and so clearly imitated the playing
of that instrument that any one thinking of it at the time could not escape
detecting it.
I did not know what a concertina was when I wrote the above portion of
this note, but supposed that it was an instrument played somewhat after the
manner of a guitar. But having ascertained from Miss Edmunds that it is a
wind instrument like the accordion I am at a great loss to understand how
Dr. Hodgson could so mistake the movement of Mrs. P.'s hand and fingers.
This mistake has to be mentioned because, 'having in mind what was intended,
I am liable to the accusation that the resemblance recognised by me was an
illusion of apperception, and Dr. Hodgson's reference to the concertina
powerfully sustains that suspicion. But I am confident beyond all doubt
that there is less reason for this suspicion than the sceptic imagines,
though he is entitled to the caution which such phenomena impose upon the
observer.—J. H. H.]
What is it . . My stepsister .
I am Charles. + sent me to take father's place. Hettie I did not
remember. (That is right.)
[My brother Charles died in 18(io [Correct date, 1864] and my sister
Henrietta was born in 1874.—J. H. H.]
as she was my stepsister half sister [Correct. —J. H. H.] I mean but I
could not think of it at first. Do you realise, James, how much our leader
is helping me .
(I shall be glad to hear you go on.)
he said, I mean father said . . said . . 1 mean father said .
you go Charles and do the best you can until I can breathe more freely
XLI.] 463
Appendix III.
until I can breathe more freely . . . [The above repetitions due
to non-reading by S.]
Do you remember Uncle James McLellan . . . and Frank . .
speak . . Hyslop. (Yes. I remember Frank Hyslop well.)
He is not here yet, he is over there somewhere, father spoke to me of
him a few moments ago. (That is right.)
[The name of my uncle James McClellan is practically correct and also
that of my brother Frank Hyslop. Charles could remember little or nothing
about him. I am not certain at this writing whether Frank was born at
the time of Charles' death. But it is interesting to observe the allusion to
his having heard father speak of him. The statement that he is still living is
correct.—J. H. H.]
[I find on examining the birth register that my brother Frank was born
three years after brother Charles' death. (August 1st, 1899). —J. H. H.]
You see father forgets nothing but he cannot say all that he thinks .
all he thinks yet.
Who is Dr. Pierce. He was a friend of Uncle Clarke's, and he is still
over there . . there. (Right.) [!] [Assuming that Dr. J. P. Dice
(Cf. p. 459) is meant by this it is correct, he being a friend of my uncle
and my father's physician (November 3rd, 1899). —J. H. H.] [I said
"right " at this point in recognition of Dr. Hodgson's correct leading of
the word ''Clarke's" instead of "Charles" as it first appeared to me.
—J. H. H.] and perhaps you will take the trouble to find him at the
. . . * * [undec.] . . oh I am getting mixed too. [R. H. puts
knife into hand.] (My brother Charles.)
I was ill wasn't I, very ill, and when they thought I was getting better I
was really coming out. You do not know this but Aunt Nannie will, I know.
[I do not know anything about this.—J. H. H.] [Cannot be verified, but
aunt Nannie is the only person living besides her sister, aunt Eliza, who
could possibly know, and aunt Nannie is the one father would mention to
my brother for the purpose because of her excellent memory in most cases
like this (December 30th, 1899).—J. H. H.] [I have learned since also that
my aunt Nannie was teaching near by, and that she came to see my brother
Charles during the illness, but she was not present at his death (June 3rd,
190O.)-J. H. H.]
I am thinking about father's war stories. Do you remember them ? (Yes,
I do.) [My brother Charles died just before the close of the Civil War when
he was only four and a half years old, and hence can hardly be supposed to
remember father's war stories. But I conjecture that this incident like most
of the others in his communications here, is the result of information on the
"other side." It has an interesting connection with father's earlier refer
ence to the war (p. 454), and in the coincidence of Charles's death with the
date of that war of which he could remember little or nothing (June 3rd,
1900).—J. H. H.] [Cf. reference to chimney, p. 455.]
And any thing about his leg. (Yes, yes, yes I do.) [This is like the
previous incident (p. 454).—J. H. H.]
and the little . . . James what became of the little ship . . [I
know nothing of this.—J. H. H.]
(I do not remember. I do not remember.)
464 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
think . . think . . think about the boat . . boat.
The other boys must know what I mean. (Yes. I shall ask them about
it.) [Cannot be verified (November 3rd, 1899).—J. H. H.]
And . . we [?] we . . and ask about the time after I left that they
got turned over. I can not ask them because I know. [I know nothing about
this.—J. H. H.] (I shall ask them myself this summer.) [Unverifiable,
(November 3rd, 1899).—J. H. H.]
And what has become of Robert ? (Robert who 1) Robert Hyslop.
(Your brother Robert.) Yes. [Correct.—J. H. H.] (He is in Ohio.)
Well . . well . . is he well. (Yes, he is well.) Are those his
children ? (I do not understand.) No . No, it was only interruption
. . I am thinking of my brother. [Possibly there is a special pertinence
in asking about my brother Robert, in addition to father's interest in
him. Charles' full name was Charles Robert, and as father had no name
sake after Charles' death he called his next son simply Robert (November
3rd, 1899).—J. H. H.] [See Note 68, p. 518.]
(That is right.)
And he has some . . some trouble with his eye . . one . .
eyes. Yes, eyes. (Yes, I think that is right.) Yes, it surely is right, and
I am going to see what I can do to help him. [See Note fi7, p. 517.]
I will do better for you bye and bye, James, do not get impatient with me.
I was all right, and I tried to do right always. Don't you think so ? (Yes, I do
think so.) I want very much to help you to find us all. I could not stay away.
We had one other sister . . . [other interpreted at the time as sister ;
it looks like a mixture of the letters of other and sister.] more . . one
more sister, didn't we, or you did. (Yes. Yes.) I mean you did. (Yes,
that is right. Can you tell her name !) Yes, Lida . . [Correct.—
J. H. H.] (Yes.) was her name. (Yes, that is right.)
and father knows more about her than I do, but often tells me about
. about them, and of another one named like her. Li . . L i z z
. . Lizzie . . . Li . . . no not exactly, but Eliza
. . beth . . Eliza . .
I am not quite sure of this, James.
[It is true that father would know more about sister Lida than Charles, as
this sister was only eight [six] years old when Charles died at six [four
and a half]. It appears also that he is attempting to name my aunt Eliza
after whom my sister Lida (real name Eliza) is named. " Named like her "
seems to indicate this with reasonable clearness.—J. H. H.]
[Examination of the family records shows that my sister was only six
years old when my brother Charles died at four and a-half, (December 31st,
1899).—J. H. H.]
(Well, don't worry about it.)
but he often speaks of L U Cy. (Yes, can you finish that name Lucy ?
Can you come . . )
LUCIN . . . . LUCy . . who » * [undec.] Mother.
Mother . . L It is L U C y I am speaking about. Lan * * [undec.]
LUCy. No, I cannot, James. (I know what it is.) [Said to Dr. Hodg-
son.—J. H. H.]
I will try again to make him hear.
XLI.] 465
Appendix III.
L L U C y . A . . Annie . . . will help me for a moment.
I do not think it is wise, will return again when I can speak louder. I
am not confused, am I ? (I think not, but what relation was she to me !
What relation was she to me ? What relation was this person you are speak
ing about to me ?)
Well, I got it all but the Hyslop.
[Rector apparently thought here that my brother was trying to give Lucy
as the name of a sister or relative. There never was such a person, and it is
curious to remark that in the attempt to trust his inferences Rector goes
astray. But it is not less interesting to observe that, at the end of the
sitting, as Mrs. Piper comes out of the trance, there is apparently a special
effort made to get the name Lucy McClellan, and this time they succeeded
(June 3rd, 1900;.—J. H. H.]
(Was she very close to me !) [Hand shakes slightly to indicate not under
standing.] Say that again.
(Was she very close to me when she was living !)
Yes, very, and would have remained so, but not a sister nor a cousin nor
an aunt, James, but it is on my mind, and I would like to tell you all I can
about her, but I am a little weaker just now.
[Brother Charles had tried to give this Lucy in a previous sitting (p.
455), and the communications seemed very much confused. But as my
uncle James McClellan was named a few minutes before in the present
sitting, I here inferred that the attempt was to give the name of his
daughter-in-law, who, I thought, was meant the first time the name was
given, but I gave up this idea because the relationship mentioned seemed
false. But as soon as I saw the hesitation the first time I saw the name Lucy
written, I thought it possible that the reference might be to my twin sister
Sarah Luella who had died before Charles was born, as the first two letters
of her name Luella are the same as that of Lucy. Hence I remarked to Dr.
Hodgson that I knew wrhat it meant. I ought to have seen that : " It is
Lucy I am speaking about. Lin . . . " was not intended for my sister,
but I did not. However, I resolved to test the case by asking [for the
relationship to me of the person indicated. I put the question in the form
mentioned, almost the identical language referring to her possibly in an earlier
sitting (p. 309), in order to satisfy a special purpose. The answer is somewhat
puzzling. It seems to answer me both affirmatively and negatively. But by
separating the statements they can both of them be interpreted as true. This
Lucy, still living, is neither sister, nor aunt, nor cousin, except we consider
the last by marriage, she being the wife of the Robert McClellan who commu
nicated before. But the statement that "she " was very close to me and "would
have remained so," seems to imply that the lady was not living, while in fact
she is. But this implication and the closeness of the relation asserted, if
applied to the sister that I had in mind, would be perfectly relevant. —J.H.H.]
(R. H. : I think he'd better stop, Rector.)
Yes, he is going, don't .
He is going far off canst thou not see him yet.
(R. H. : Rector, the writing is getting worse and worse. Perhaps the
light is failing.)
Yes, it is, but speak slowly, friend.
2 H
466 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
He [Imporator] was trying to assist him to recall his memories as he was
clear on arrival (S. :" service ") arrival . . clearer on arrival here. U D
(R. H. : " Clearer on arrival here.") U D. (R. H. : Yes.)
Oh God, thou allwise Father, give us more light on the returning of the
light and ere we return to earth * * [undec.] we may be able to hear distinctly
and clearly the voices of Thy Messengers and all returning friends. We
beseech thee, Oh Father, to render (S. : "render") (R. H. : " remember."
To S. : Don't you say anything.) [S.'s interpretation was correct. I saw
that the writing was becoming fainter, and thought that it would avoid
confusion if S. did not try to interpret, but left it entirely to me at this
stage.—R. H.] us Thy aid and [not read at once] . . render us thy
help in all our undertakings. We . . faileth [failtheth ?] Thy help we are
indeed bereft. Merciful Father, Oh thou Allwise God Merciful God give ua
help and light [not all read at once] . . Allwise and Merciful .
We cannot bring thy father back this day. Yet we will not fail thee.
(R. H. : " Yet we will fail thee.")
Yet we will not fail thee after we depart and return again. (R.H. : Amen.)
The light is failing and we must soon cease. (R. H. : Yes the time is up
also.) We will return with light. (R. H. : Amen.)
May God watch over thee through this day. [through not read at once.]
throughout this day. (R. H. : Amen.)
Farewell + R. }
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
(R. H. : Kindly send the light back quickly.) [Repeated.]
Lucy . . (R. H. : Your tongue prevents the articulation.) [Repeated.]
Tell Hyslop. Lucy . Lucy . . McLellan.
[S. caught this sound before me and said "McLellan," which I then
recognised it to be before it was repeated.—R. H.]
McLellan—McLellan.
Good-bye [from Mrs. P. apparently to Sp.]
I wanted to say ... I want to say it well [?]
[This mention of the name Lucy McClellan as Mrs. P. came out of the
trance represents the right name to clear up both the difficulties of brother
Charles' statement and much of the confusion in the previous sittings. I
shall now be able to run down a good many intimations. The matter now
stands thus. This Lucy McClellan is the wife, still living, of the Robert
McClellan who communicated on several occasions. He is the son of the
James McClellan, my uncle, who died in 1876. All were very warm friends
of my father and myself.—J. H. H.]
Introduction.
The symptoms of the trance to-day were in many respects the same
as in previous cases, but in a few particulars quite different. I noticed
as before that the yawning and sighing which accompanied the approach
of the trance were incidents of this state and not of the normal Mrs. P.
The first peculiarity, not noticed before, was the interruption of a short
period of apparent unconsciousness, the eyes being closed, by a few
XLI.] 467
Appendix III.
moments of apparent lucidity. But when the trance became quite
profound there was the catching of the breath as of a person in the
throes of death, but this soon stopped, and the breathing became as it
usually is in the trance.—J. H. H.
June 6th, 1899.
Record of Sitting. Jane 6th, 1899.
Prof. J. H. H. and R. H.
[Mrs. P.'s Kublim.]
I'd like to go to sleep and sleep for ever, when it's . . when it's hot.
[Just beginning to lose ordinary consciousness.]
[Rector writes.]
HAIL. (R. H. : Hail.)
[Hand then seems distressed, cramped, and writes with much difficulty.]
we like not (R. H. : the position of the light ?)
thy arrangement. (R. H. : Wait one moment kindly.)
[As Mrs. P. lost consciousness, the upper part of the body tended to
sway on one side somewhat, out of equilibrium, and we had a little difficulty
in arranging her head properly upon the cushions. While doing so, Professor
Hyslop moved Mrs. P.'s chair somewhat forward and to the side, with the
object of placing her body in a better position as regards the cushioned table,
and we also changed the position of the table itself. On reading the above
writing and examining the position of Mrs. P.'s body I found that it had
sagged over slightly to the right, and it would not apparently remain in a
convenient position. On stooping down and looking at Mrs. P.'s feet,
slightly moving her dress for the purpose, I found that the feet were crossed
and one foot was partly turned over on the side. I uncrossed the feet and
planted them straight in front of her, and we then re-arranged the upper
part of the body.—R. H.]
[This was a very remarkable incident. As Mrs. P.'s head fell on the
pillow I saw that her body was in a crooked position, and feared that during
the writing she might topple over. Consequently I moved the chair upon
which Mrs. P. was sitting so as to straighten her up a little and prevent her
falling over. The table was then pulled up closer to her, and we proceeded
to wait for the writing. My surprise can be imagined when the allusion to
something being wrong with the machine was made, and turned out to be
what Dr. Hodgson has described. It is interesting to remark also that there
was a connection between this position and the indistinctness of the writing.
As soon as Mrs. P. was put into the proper position the writing appeared
natural as usual. I had supposed that the change was due to the transition
from Imperator to Rector, as the writing before the allusion to Mrs. P.'s
condition was made resembled, to me at least, that of Imperator. But the
resumption of the writing immediately by Rector without the symptoms that
usually accompany a change of personality rather indicates a connection
between the cramped position of Mrs. P. and the writing.—J. H. H.]
We meet thee with joy. HAIL thee once more. (R. H. : Amen.)
[R. H. motions to S. to speak.]
2 h 2
468 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(I hail thee this morning with joy.)
All peace to thee, dear friend, and may thy future life while in its mortal
covering be as peaceful as the Messengers of the Most High would have it,
and it will be so. + R.
Hearest thou me . . may the blessings of God rest on thee evermore.
We have much to say to thee ere we depart for some time. U D. (Yes.)
We have some advice for thee concerning thy . . -self . . self
and thy work. (I U D.) +
Time there will be for all things, and we ask thee to hurry not.
(R. H. : Yes. Rector, we received the name Lucy McClellan from the
light on her return the last time, and were very grateful. We should be
glad if you would kindly let us know when it would be desirable for our
friend here to ask his father one or two questions which he would like him to
answer during this visit either this time or on the next two times, any time
that you think desirable.)
I am interrupted. Kindly repeat last three words. [Towards end of my
remarks hand had turned away from me as if to talk to Sp.—R. H.]
(R. H. : If the spirit Hyslop will be ready to answer one or two ques
tions before our friend's next times are finished.)
Ask thy questions, friend, when thy father announces himself as being
present, and ask them quite slowly and distinctly that he may U D fully the
question, as it may take some time for him to grasp the meaning fully, and
if he faileth to answer this day it will give him time to think over and reply
at the first coming of the light. U D. (R. H. : Yes.)
All questions should be put slowly and distinctly to him.
H., how are you . . I have just been called upon to lend a helping
hand. You see I am not wholly isolated [isoliated ?] . . i . . [inter
preted at the time as dissociated] from you.
(R. H. : Good, George, were you here last time ?)
For a few moments. I helped a man named Charles, but I did not get a
chance to say, How de do, H. (R. H. : All right, George.)
I am going after the elderly gentleman, look out for me.
(R. H. : We will.) Got those theories all straightened out yet, H ?
. . theories. (R. H. : Pretty fairly.)
I am going. Auf wiedersehen. G. P.
I am coming, James. I am coming, James, my son.
(S. to R. H. : Shall I ask my question ?)
(R. H. to S. : Wait a minute, wait a minute, don't be in too great a hurry.)
I will be with you in a moment. Hear me. (Yes, I hear. Good
morning, father.) Good morning, James. I hope it is a good morning with
you. (Yes, it is. Yes, it is a good morning.)
(S. to R. H. : Perhaps you'd better tell them * * ask question) [ !]
[One or two words not heard by R. H. (January 1st, 1900).—J. H. H.]
I am glad to hear it, it is always fine here, but you cannot U D it.
(R. H. : Mr. Hyslop.)
Yes, what is it, friend ?
(R. H. : Your son wishes to know one or two things specially. Shall he
ask one thing now ? If you do not think of the answer do not trouble, but
when you go away think it over and come back afterwards with the reply.)
XLI.] 4G9
Appendix III.
Well, that is clear enough, I am sure.
(Can you tell me some things that took place before I was born, and
which Aunt Nannie and Aunt Eliza will know. All things of this kind will
shut out the thought theory, you understand.)
Well, I do in part, James, just let our friend repeat it for me, as I have
a friend helping me who U D his accent [acent] better than . . acen .
I can either of yours at present. I know yours perfectly, but as he [is] chief
helper he can hear better in so doing.
(R, H. : Yes. I . . )
What about my sisters ? I could not quite get that . . get . .
(R. H. : Yes . . .) . . (R. H. : I will explain. Hyslop here
wishes . . )
James. (R. H. : Yes, James wishes his father) [Hand points to Sp.]
(R. H. : Yes ... to tell him some incidents that Hyslop in the
body, his son James, does not know, and . . and that Aunt Nannie and
Aunt Eliza will know.) U D. (R. H. : Then . . people can't say that
they came out of the mind of James. )
[Hand rises, then bows, as if telling and then listening to Sp.]
Yes, very well, this is not so difficult a thing to do, I am sure.
(R. H. : One moment. There is another point. If possible, he should
recall things before James was born. In other words, get him to think of
incidents with his . . ) (R. H. to S. : Sisters?) (S. to R. H. : No, aunts.
Yes, sisters.) (R. H. : His sisters Nannie and Eliza before James was born . .
that they will remember.)
Yes, very well, I U D perfectly, and I will go back to my boyhood and
tell you what you cannot deny. U D. I feel better this day and I can see
you clearer than I ever have before. I am going out for a moment and
[shall] think it over, and I will return in a few moments. U D. (Yes.
I UD.)
I heard that perfectly and I should know that voice anywhere.
Don't hurry so, friend. Come away. [Between Sp. apparently.]
Is James Hyslop here, if so give him my love and say it is as I would
have it, and I shall always feel as I did before he went away. I want very
much to say something to him, but how can I !
[Pause.]
I want to return as soon as possible and free my mind, I have much to
talk over with him. My name I gave to Mr. Clarke . . gave . . and told
him to say I was here LUCY [?]
(S. to R. H. : What's that ?) L U C Y.
Where is the book of poems ? Ask him if he knows what I am thinking
about. [I cannot now imagine who this is nor what the book of poems
means. The Lucy given would suggest my cousin, Robert McClellan, but
the rest is unintelligible.—J. H. H.] [See Note 69, p. 518.]
[Stir in hand.]
Yes, I am here once more. 'Will you kindly ask aunt Eliza if she
remembers a young man named B a k er, and if she recall going to a prayer
meeting one evening with him, and if . . ask her [written above]
(R. H. : "ask her if") she remembers who teased her about him. (I U D.
Go on.)
470 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
and ask them both if they remember Jerry.
(R. H. : Jerry ?) Yes. (S. to R. H. : That's right.)
(R. H. : Jerry ?) Yes.
Perhaps you may know of this. If you do, say so, James, and I will
think of something else which you do not know.
(Yes, I have heard you talk about Jerry, but please give the rest of his
name for Aunt Nannie.)
Ah, but it is no use if you know it . . (All . . . ) [I remember
distinctly hearing father and mother mention this Jerry, and what became of
him, but I never saw him unless when so young that I could not remember
the fact,—J. H. H.]
but ask Iter (All right.) [I thought the "ask her" referred to this
Jerry and said " All right," but it goes with the following incident.—J. H. H.]
if she remembers who put the shoes in her bed. (R. H. : *Aoes ? shoes T)
Yes, I say SHOE S.
(R. H. : Good.) (All right. I shall ask her.)
and a sock (S. : "sack?") (R. H. : "sock?") SOCK (R. H. :
" sock " ?) Yes, on the post. No one on earth can know this, as mother is
here, and she and the Rogers girl only will testify to it.
[Excitement in hand.]
I have something better.
Ask her if she recalls the evening when we broke the wheel to our wagon
. . the . .
(I see. Go on.)
and who tried to cover it up, so it would not leak out so to speak. I
remember it as if it happened yesterday [Characteristic phrase of father's.—
J. H. H.] and she will remember it too.
I cannot tell you any more just now, but I will think over what is on my
mind about our school days an . . and of my trying to preach to the boy
in the born . . boys . . and more about it.
Be sure and ask about Baker, Jerry, and the broken wheel.
(Yes. I certainly shall do so.)
If any one's mind can know this who is present, I don't believe it. The
girls alone know what I mean, and you will find it just as I tell you, James.
(Yes, very well, father, I shall ask about it.)
Is this what you wanted ? Well I am a little weak just now and I will
step out.
(R. H. to S. : Thank him very much and tell him he can go away and
come again.) (Thank you very much, father. You can go away and come
again.) All right, James. Be patient with me . . (Yes, I shall. Yes,
I shall be patient.)
Gone. [See Note 70, p. 519.]
Rest thy body, friend. [A very singular injunction to me by Rector, the
fact being that I was quite tired.—J. H. H.]
[Hyslop sits down.]
[Hand bows as in prayer, after cross in air.]
I am here once more. I am James McLellan if you wish to know and
you are my namesake . . name. [Correct. —J. H. H.]
(Yes, I remember you and that you, . . that I am your namesake.)
XLI.] 471
Appendix III.
Yes, all right. We cannot quarrel about that, can we, James, but I
despised the name of Jim. [Pertinent. We always called him by another
name. But I never knew why we did so, nor that he despised the name
Jim.—J. H. H.J (Very well, I understand.)
What is it you want to know about Frank, or was it John who wanted to
know ? (There was some confusion when Frank was mentioned, and also
when John was mentioned. Who is this cousin John that was mentioned
before ?) [p. 445.] It was not cousin, that was a mistake. (Yes. Is he in
the body or is he in the spirit ?) He is here, and [Hand dissents violently]
I intend to straighten this out, but the light went out, and I could not remain
there. He is a brother . . [Correct.—J. H. H]
Yes all right . . [to Sp.]
and he will be here soon.i
But it is still not straight . . straight. [Perhaps from G. P. to Sp.]
Wait and I will explain.
You remember brother John very well, you must if you are James.
[Correct and interesting. —J. H. H.] (Yes. I remember him well.)
He was the one who went to war.
[I may have known this, but the only reason for supposing it is the fact
that I was acquainted with him while at college, he being its treasurer. I
have not the slightest recollection of ever knowing his connection with the
war, but if it be true I cannot say that I never knew the fact.—J. H. H.]
(Very well. Go on.)
Let me see. [This is evidently intended to correct the above.—J. H. H.]
Well, perhaps you remember father, don't . . do [superposed on don't]
you not ? (Do you mean your father ?) Yes. [I never knew him, and do
not recall ever hearing of hiin.—J. H. H.]
i June 10th, 1900. In May I wrote to this John McClellan a letter inquiring
about some of the facts connected with his father's life, and received from his son
a letter in reply, dated May l6th, and received by me the next day, saying that his
father had died on the 30th of March last. I wrote to Dr. Hodgson asking him to
inquire at his sitting of June 4th of my father, if he could reach him, whether he had
knowledge of anything recent to tell me. I kept Dr. Hodgson ignorant of the facts,
though he knew from my explanation to him that I wanted information of the recent
death of some one connected with the report. The following is what occurred at
the sitting.
"(I have first in importance an inquiry for Mr. Hyslop to answer if possible.
Has anything happened recently that you wish to tell James r!) [Cross in air.]
His father has been cheering up a friend who hath passed over to him of late, and
he will return here and speak to thee of him ere we depart. (Good.) [A little later
was written : ] Mr. McLellan also sent a word to say all is well and better than he
hoped. There was another message, but it was disconnected . . disconnected . .
and vague. Will get it before we depart. This will be better U D presently."
[A little later my father ap1ieared, and the following occurred :—]
" Did you call for me to answer some questions for James, R. H. [Robert
Hyslop.] (I . . . ) Well, I am glad to see you.
(I am pleased, Mr. Hyslop. James wants you to give him some particular
information, as detailed as you can, about something that has happened recently
which he thinks you ought to know about that will help as evidence.) evidence. (Yes.)
Well, Hettie has got through with her work splendidly, and Mr. Mclellan has
come over to me and . . splendidly . . he is delighted with the change,
472 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Is this my undo James McClellan !) Yes. (Yes—no I do not remember
your father.) Well, he was John. (Very well.)
John James McClellan [James written first. John written in front of
Janies, then McLellan written after.—J. H. H.]
(R. H. : "James John McLellan " ?) No. John James McLellan.
(Very well. I U D, and shall inquire alxmt it.)
Well, go ahead and inquire. I think I know.
(Well, all right. Please tell me anything you wish to tell.)
I wanted to tell you about his going to the war, and about one of his
fingers being gone before he came here.
(Very well. Go on please. I I'D.)
And he had a brother David, who had a SUN stroke.
(I U D. I U D. That is perfectly new to me. I never heard it before,
and it pleases me very much to learn this fact.)
Well, he never was well after he received it until he came here.
Then one more I wanted to speak of was N a n cy but I cannot tell you
any more now.
(R. H. to S. : Very good.) [Indicating to S. to make some such remark.]
(Very good. Thank you very much. Rest now.)
Be brave, upright, honourable, do the best you can and don't forget your
uncle James Mc. [Correct name. —J. H. H.]
Good-bye. (R. H. to S. : Say . . .) (Good-bye. Good-bye, uncle,
for the present.)
* * * [undec. James or yours ?] James McLellan.
per . . (Yes. Which McClellan?) John .... did .... perhaps you heard
me speak of him before. (Yes, I think so. What relation is he to Jnines ?) he is his
uncle or great uncle to him. (What is he to James McClellan?) He is a brother.
(Well, I am not clear about what you say when you say that . . . ) [Hand
motions slightly up and down quickly as if to stop my speaking. ]
Listen, will you kindly repeat your first question. He is James Mc father
McClellans u ? ( H ho is ?)
Now, wait I am a little confused myself. He is James McClellan's uncle and
great uncle to my son James, th [?]
(Rector. I think that Mr. Hyslop had better go away and think over just who
this person is that has passed over, as he says, and come back and tell me clearly. )
Yes, all right." [On his return he said :—]
"I am here, and if you remember my reference to James to James McClellan
. . . this is the same one to whom I referred before, and he is ... . the
elderly gentleman to whom I referred, and he is James Mclellan's uncle. (James
McClellan's uncld) Yes. (I believe that he is confused, Rector).
Well, friend, in any case it would be wise to repeat this to him later, and ask him
to explain after the light has been removed.
(Rector, I must say that, so far as I can see, the light is worse this time almost
than I have known it at all since you began to come. The energy seems more feeble,
the writing seems not so clear, and it suggests that there has been a retrogression in
the working of the mechanism.)
Friend, thou canst sec the necessity of our closing the light soon. Friend, the
light is not, neither hath it been for some time as clear as we desire."
[On June 12th, when Dr. Hodgson was again present, G. P., Rector writing, sent
the following message :]
XLI.] 473
Appendix III.
[Hand writes H over the name, about between James and McLellan.}
[James H. McLellan ?]
(S. to R. H. : There's an H. over it.)
[Between Sp.] Yes, all right. Don't feel badly about it. Come
again
[See Notes 71, p. 520, and 72, p. 521.]
Yes, I am back again, James, and I have or did have a box of minerals
minerals I had when I was a boy, and whatever became of them I
am unable to say. Will you try and look them up for me. [I know nothing
of this.—J. H. H.] (Yes, I shall try to do so.) [See Note 73, p. 522.]
What was the name of that Dr. ? I cannot think of his name. [See
Note 74, p. 523.]
(Well, don't worry. It will come. Be patient.)
They tell me in time I can return again after the light goes out for a long
time. I shall be glad of this, but will you kindly tell me what you have
done with all those books I gave you ? (I have them in my library.)
Oh yes library, I remember of course. Science and theology. I sent you
the year before I came here two, did I not ! (This . . is this father
speaking ?) Yes, I. (I forget about that, but will think it over.)
I think you will find that I sent you a box containing two or more
books before I became so ill. I have it on my mind now, and I think I am
right about it. Did you ask about the paper reading yet and about my
glasses troubling me (
Yes. [in reply to correct reading.]
" I saw Hyslop [hislop], and learned that it was McCle . . . McClellan's son
to whom he referred, but the light was so poor he could not talk intelligently. He
will see you later and explain all."
The first matter of interest to note here is the realisation of the prediction made
on June (ith, 1899, and the correctness of the general statement of John McClellan's
recent death. But it is apparent that there is some confusion in regard to the
relationship. Two correct statements were made regarding it. The first was that
he was a brother of James McClellan, and the second that he was a son of John
McClellan referred to before (p. 472). All the references to "uncle" and "great
"uncle," relating him to me in this way were false. The mistake, however, is
perhaps a natural one in the light of the following facts.
There are John McClellan, Sr., John McClellen, Jr., and James McClellan, the
last two sons of the first. There is also the other John McClellan who has no deter
minate relation to any of these, so far as I know (p. 111). Now James McClellan
was my uncle by marriage with my father's sister. If my uncle's father is a relation
ship in any way analogous to that of my father's uncle, we may well undeistand the
source of the confusion in the attempt to assign the relationship. The person whose
death was predicted, and who died on March 30th 1900, is John McClellan, Jr. The
confusion lay in the question of uncles, and it is therefore iuteresting to note that in
the statement on June 12th, 6. P. avoided this entirely, and specified that the
person concerned was John McClellan's son, thereby making it clear that it was
John McClellan, Jr.
The reference to my sister as having finished her work is in the main correct.
She had but one piece of work to do after this date in completion of her course. It
must be remembered, ttbwever, that I had intimated to my father at the sitting of
February 6th, 1900, that she would graduate in the spring.—J. H. H.
474 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Yes. I asked about that, and found it all light if I remember rightly.)
[See Note 74, p. 623.]
Well now I feel satisfied to feel that that you are at least pulling with my
push. [See Note, p. 340, on the phrase " pulling with my push."—J. H. H.]
<R. H. : "pushing") . . pulling . . and that is all I can ask of you.
I remember perfectly well what my own theories were concerning this life,
and my too often expressing doubts about it. . it . I do indeed [not read
at once] but I think I was moved with the thought that I should live
somewhere . . I do indeed . . . yes . . and not die as a Vegetable.
(I UD.) [Cf. p. 386.]
[I never knew that father had the slightest doubt about this. He never
expressed any doubt about it to me, not even in the conversation I had with
him on the subject, and I could not understand this confession of doubt if it
were not for the surprisingly receptive attitude which he took in that con
versation for the scientific evidence which I produced in favor of it on that
occasion. I had expected some reproach for my interest in it and a reminder
that this could come to us only by faith in a revelation. He was always
careful to keep his intellectual and moral perplexities from all of us, if he
had any ; so much so that it is inexplicable now to be told that he had them
on this subject. Of course it remains to prove that this is true, and I should
not tolerate it as even possible were it not thoroughly consonant with his
behaviour in our conversation and with his interest in Swedenborg.—J. H. H.]
[November 3rd, 1899. It is possible that the doubt refers to the
possibility of spirit communication.—J. H. H.]
Do you remember our conversations on this subject l (Yes I do. Can
you tell when it was Yes I do remember the . . . ) Yes, do you
remember of my last visit . . your last visit (Yes.) with me. [C/. p. 440.]
(Yes. I remember it well.)
It was more particularly on this occasion than before.
(Yes, that is right. Do you know what I was doing just before I made
the visit ?)
Yes, I believe you had been experimenting on the subject and I
remember of your telling me something about Hypnotism. [Correct.—
J. H. H.] (Yes, I remember that well.)
And what did you tell me about some kind of manifestation which you
were in doubt about 1 (It was about apparitions near the point of death.)
[Excitement in hand.]
Oh, yes, indeed, I recall it very well, and you told me a young woman
(S. : "young man ") no (S. : not man) . . a young woman who had had
some experiments and dreams. (Yes ; that is right. Yes, that is right.)
which interested me very much, but yet you were doubtful about life
after so-called death. Remember the long talks we had together on this,
James. (Yes. Yes, I remember them very well, and I am no more
doubtful.)
[This is a perfectly correct account of the visit I paid to him, my last as
here said, in 1895. It is interesting to remark the mistake, as if
referring to some visit of his own, and then the correction of it
to my last visit. Hut all the allusions here are correct, unless an
objection can be based upon the use of the word "experiments.'' I talked
XLI.] 475
Appendix III.
with father on this occasion about Mrs. D., an account of whose experiences
I gave him at the time. But my " experiments" with her on crystal vision
were not made until a few weeks after my visit and the report of them
not published until after his death. I might have mentioned the experiments
in a letter to him. The other experiences, narrated in the same report with
the crystal visions, I knew as early as 1893, and some in 1894, before I
visited father, which was during the mid-year examinations in 1895.
There is an interpretation of this, however, which consists with the use
of the word " experiments." I spoke of the above possible difficulty because
any reader of my paper on Mrs. D. would at once interpret the word
"experiments" as referring to those in crystal vision, which were made after
this conversation. But the fact is that one of the phenomena which I had
mentioned to my father in the conversation was the case of a dream coinci
dence and the experiment to see if Mrs. D. could identify by a photograph
the person appearing, whom she had never seen. (Proceedings S.P.R.,
Vol. XII., pp. 272-274.) Hence the case can have a clear reference to this
instance which had appeared so remarkable to my father.
The allusion to "some kind of manifestation," recognised as meaning
apparitions near the point of death, possibly refers to what I said about the
Census of Hallucinations (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. X.) published in August
of 1894, and to one which my stepmother mentioned where one of her parents
—I have forgotten which—appeared to the other when dying. I was
especially sceptical in my treatment of these hallucinations on this occasion.
I explained hypnotism quite fully, and tried several times during my visit to
hypnotise my brother Frank, who was then an invalid. I remember father
watched me with great interest and with some disappointment when I failed
to effect hypnosis, as he had never seen it.—J. H. H.]
God knows best, and if your (R. H. : "You.") (S. to R. H. : Isn't that
your ?) father ever lived I am his spirit. I am he. 1 am he. (I UD.)
I feel, think and (S. : " I feel this and ") [Hand moves slightly towards
R. H.] (R. H. : "I feel this and ") I feel, think and know as well as I ever
did, and yet I am not able to express in this way all I think. I may give
out my thoughts in fragments, but if I do I hope they may at least comfort
you a little.
(Yes, yes, father, and it will help me in the great cause for the world.)
Yes, and humanity at large, I trust.
Good-moming, James. I will go with you, my boy.
Good-bye. Robert Hyslop, your old father. [Correct name and relation
as already remarked several times.—J. H. H.]
(S. to R. H. : That's it. " Your old father.") [S. sits down.]
Now, may the grace of God be and abide with thee evermore.
(R. H. : Amen.) [R. H. nods to S. to say something to hand, which
stretches back somewhat towards S.] (Amen.)
Farewell. + Imperator. {R.}
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
[Various inarticulate attempts at utterance, in which names of George and
Charles and sister could alone be distinguished.]
I want to take it to them. [More inarticulate utterances.]
476 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I want—I want . . I can't . . . R6 . . Ro . . yes I hear
you . . Robert.
I want to tell George Pelham.
You can't sing. (R. H. : You can't ?)
Elderly gentleman, hasn't any teetlu That's funny. [My father had no
teeth when he died.—J. H. H.] [See note to utterances as Mrs. P. entered
the trance at the next sitting, that of June 7th (November 3rd, 1899).—J.H.H.]
[Mrs. P. begins to weep] (R. H. : What's the matter ?)
I don't want to go in the dark. 0 that's, that's, that must be the window.
But I wonder, I wonder where they all went. That's funny. I forgot that
I was alive. I forgot you, Mr. Hodgson. I was going to tell you something,
but I've forgotten what it was. You see when my head snaps I can't tell
you anything. It must be night. Oh dear ! I feel a little weak I think.
Is that my handkerchief ?
[S. opens door. Mrs. P. turns and looks at him.]
(Do you know me ?)
Well I do, but I never got a look at you before.
Well, you're the gentleman that came with Mr. Hodgson, aren't you ?
Well, I never looked at you before.
[This is a fact which I have remarked at every sitting I have had. I
wanted to see whether any objections to the results of my experiments could
be made from the accusation that I was "sized up" by Mrs. P., and things
told me that might be conjectured as we read character. But Mrs. Piper has
never paid any attention to me ; has not even spoken to me since I was
introduced to her, and disregards me so thoroughly that there is no use for
me to look at her at all except to record the fact that she pays no attention
to me. I spoke to her deliberately in her dazed condition, and she stared at
me for a few moments like a wild person, and then broke out into the utter
ances mentioned. —J. H. H.]
Are you going out ? (R. H. : Lots of time.)
Oh, I couldn't tell you how that gentleman looked, Mr. Hodgson, I never
looked at him.
I don't like the heat at all. [Mrs. P. still dreamy up to this point.]
Introduction.
I was careful to observe whether I was noticed this morning by
Mrs. P. as she came into the room. Dr. Hodgson and I went upstairs
lx;fore seeing Mrs. P. at all. I sat down upon a sofa and picked up a
morning paper to read until Mrs. P. came up. When she came into
the room, or rather just as she entered the door, she spoke to Dr.
Hodgson, and as she walked to a writing-desk she turned her head and
took a mere glance at me reading the paper, but finding that I had
turned my eyes in that direction, she at once turned away and there
after paid no more attention to me than if I had not been in the room.
The symptoms of the trance repeated themselves as usual except
that, as the trance approached, the mention of the number 25, and then,
XLI.] 477
Appendix III.
as I thought, 23, suggested to me that they had a connection with the
language Mrs. P. used as she came out of the trance the day before,
when she said, " You can't sing, elderly gentleman hasn't any teeth.
That's funny," this language being capable of reference to the " hymn "
he was trying to mention. If the number 23, as I thought I heard it,
be correct, it is the right number of the " hymn " [psalm] that I had
in mind and supposed father had also. But there is no assurance that
there is any such connection with previous sittings in incidents of this
kind. I can only mention a possibility of this because of a coincidence
in the case. I referred in a previous note to the fact that father had no
teeth at the time of his death, but I supposed that the " you can't
sing " was only an incoherence. But it afterward occurred to me that
for some years before his death he had to give up singing at family
worship because of the gradual loss of his voice, and if there is any
thing in the supposition of continued weaknesses of this kind after
death, which must seem absolutely incredible to us, the incident might
represent an attempt on the other side, as in the case of the guitar, to
sing the " hymn " he had in mind with the hope that some of it might
come through. If so, the 23 is a relic of this attempt, the 25 being a
mistake.—J. H. H.
June 1th, 1899.
[See Note 75, p.524.]
[I had in mind at the time the 23rd Psalm, which was sung at
family worship and recited on certain occasions more frequently than
any other (June 9th, 1900).—J. H. H.]
Record of Sitting, June 7th, 1899.
Prof. J. H. H. and R. H.
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
* * [twenty-five ?] (R. H. : Twenty-five ? twenty-five did you say ?)
* * [twenty-five ?] (R. H. : twenty-five 1)
(S. to R. H. : It sounded like twenty-three the time previous to this. I
know what that means.) (R. H. to S. : You do ?) (S. to R. H. : Yes.)
[Rector writes.]
HAIL. (R. H. : Hail, Imperator and Rector.)
Hail thee this day with peace and peace to thee we bring + (R. H. :
Amen.) (Hail this morning with pleasure.)
We meet thee and hail thee with joy. All is peaceful with us and may it
ever be with thee. (R. H. : Amen.)
[Hand bows as in prayer.]
Oh, Holy Father, thou Divine Being, maker of Heaven and earth, we
beseech Thee this day to send light unto thy fellow beings. Keep them,
Oh Father, in the paths of righteousness and virtue. Lead them to know
478 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
more of Thee and Thy wondrous workings for the redemption of their own
souls. We ask for no more but leave all else to Thee + Imperator {R}
(R. H. : Amen.)
We meet thee and bring thy friends to thee this day.
Here is one thing which thy father wished me to say to thee.
Friend of earth, hearest thou me ? R. (I UD.)
I remembered [{] after leaving my son through the light}
[Hand makes slight motion, suggesting reliance on R. H. to U D that
certain words were to be enclosed in brackets.] of having been as a boy in
possession of a small lxKit (S. : "coat ?") (R. H. : "boat?") B .
which was when I was about ten or twelve years old. I fet [?] forget who
made it, but I remember of my going out to a little stream and getting my
clothes wet through, and if I mistake not it was Eliza who helped me to get
out of the difficulty. I know I have the facts clear, but the details I cannot
recall. You might ask her about the boat and about helping me get dry,
which is the most I can remember. (Yes, I shall certainly ask her.) I know
you will find I am right about it. [I know absolutely nothing of this.—-J.
H. H.] [See Note 76, p. 524.]
I am here, James. 1 heard them telling you what I said to Rector and
Moses [Stainton Moses. See Vol. XIII., p. 408.—J. H. H.] after I ceased
speaking with you before. [Cf. p. 340.]
Speak to me and speak as you did when I was on earth, James, and fear
nothing.
(Yes. Is this father who said the last sentence ?) Yes.
(Who made that cap you referred to so often ? Who made that cap you
referred to so often ?) Mother.
(Well, which mother? The one on your side or on this side? Which
mother, the one on your side or the one on my side ?) on my side.
[The term mother was so equivocal to me that I was forced to ask for the
distinction which my question suggests. But I made a botch of it in the way
I put the question. I was governed by the use which I had made before of
the same mode of expression, thinking that it would be understood, as before,
but it was not, and I have myself to blame for not saying stepmother, as I
should have done, and as I was reproached later by G. P. for not doing.
The expression "on my side" would be wrong if interpreted as coming
from father, but the statement that follows shows that the expreasion "on
my side " was repeated to father and not sent from him. This makes both
the apparent confusion and the connection perfectly clear and correct.—
J. H. H.]
(Do you mean in the earthly life or in the spirit life ?)
Oh, I see what you mean. Your mother, James, is with me, but Hettie's
mother is in the body. [This is exactly correct.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, that is right. Do you remember any trip with her out West ?)
[As my mother's name was not given, and as I was satisfied with the
relationship to my sister expressed by it, I knew that the right person was
in mind and put at once a question both to serve as still more certain
identification, and to call out some incidents about which I know little or
nothing. Father and my stepmother took a trip out to the far West before
he decided to go to Indiana in order to look for such a home as he finally
XLI.] 479
Appendix III.
adopted in the last named State. If he had mentioned any particulars of this
trip they would have served a twofold purpose, first identification to the
second wife still living, and second the mention of incidents that I do not
know.—J. H. H.]
certainly, I told you about it before some time ago, did you not U D it ?
[This is quite a remarkable answer, as showing the confusion which my
badly put question occasioned, and the memory of what had been told me
before, and which I was not sure I had rightly understood. The error in my
question consisted in failing to use the word "stepmother" or "second
wife," instead of the pronoun " her." For the mention of a trip out West in
connection with the word " mother " would inevitably suggest the trip which
father, my mother and myself took out West in 1861. The mention of his
having told me of it before shows that this very suggestion was produced.
The reference makes clear, however, what I was doubtful about at the time.
—J. H. H.]
(No, I was not quite sure what you meant. When you can I would be
glad to have you tell some things about that trip, but don't hurry.)
[I intended by this question both to express the uncertainty which I had
felt about the reference to that Western trip when it was made and to divert
his mind away from it to the other trip, though intimating that I wonld be
glad to have something about this trip in 1861 when he could give it again.
I seem to have succeeded in the diversion, though apparently a second
thought brought about confusion worse confounded, and this would be
natural enough on a second thought, because " that trip " is an exceedingly
equivocal expression. I am not surprised at the confusion that followed, and
saw very soon why and how I had caused the muddle.—J. H. H.]
Yes, but it was she who made my cap, and you had better ask her about
it. [Allusion to maker of cap correct.—J. H. H.] Sarah. SARAH.
(R. H. to S. : Let me . . . ) [I was about to say "Let me speak."]
Let me see what is it I wish to say. . Ellen (Allen). (R. H. : What is
that, Ellen? What is that, Ellen ?) [Assent.]
help me. Oh help me to [R. H. puts leather spectacle case and brown
knife on table, next to hand. Hand moves back the knife and retains the
spectacle case.] recall what I so longed to say. My own mother Nannie. I
. . . wait. I will go for a moment, wait for me, James.
[The confusion here I interpreted as due partly to the nature of my
equivocal question and partly to the attempt to give my stepmother's name.
The words my "own mother, Nannie," suggested that he was trying to get
some way of making himself understood in regard to my stepmother's name,
as Margaret was the name of both, and later this name was given by G. P.
[See Note 77, p. 524.]
(Yes I shall wait. Yes I shall wait.)
Yes, very well. Yes, I do. [Between Sp.]
H., did you send for me. What is it ?
(S. to R. H. : That's George, isn't it ?)
Yes. I am coming right back.
I think, James, you mean when we met with the accident, do you not ?
[This shows what I am responsible for in my equivocal reference to the
trip, and my failure to make clear with whom it was connected. I thought
480 J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
the next statement would clear it, but the answer shows that he thought he
had already referred to the trip I had in mind.—J. H. H.]
(No, not the accident. You took a trip with Hettie's mother just before
you went out West. It was that to which I referred.)
Well, I am sure I have told you of this before. Think it over and you will
recall it. I am not sure I mentioned her, but I had it on my mind when I
referred to the trip I took just before going out West, do you not recall
it ? [S. is about to speak.] (R. H. to S. : Sh sh) [Hand turns away
to Sp.] [Cf. p. 421.]
(R. H. : George . . . ) [S. about to speak again.] (R. H. to S. :
Sh-sh.)
[I do not recall that any previous references to this trip were recognised
by me at all, though I did explain that the statements made regarding a trip
West were equivocal enough to apply to two of them that I knew about. I
shall have to re-read the first four sittings at least, and possibly some of the
five by Dr. Hodgson to determine this matter. This confusion and perhaps
lapse of memory on my part ought to create charity for alleged spirits who
have difficulty in remaining near the " machine."—J. H. H.] [See Note 78,
p. 525.]
(R. H. : George, there is apparently some confusion still remaining in the
spirit Hyslop's mind about Hettie's mother in the body. He has not yet
given her real name. Perhaps you can see just what the cause of this
confusion about her is.)
[This statement by Dr. Hodgson is interesting partly for its misunder
standing of my mind and intention at the time and for the confusion which
it was calculated to produce, as it did, and for the later explanation and
reproach of G. P. Dr. Hodgson did not know, and the necessity of not
burdening the record at the time with my reason for my conduct in not
pressing for the name prevented me from telftng him, that I was satisfied
with the right relation expressed in regard to my sister and the cap made by
her mother, and that I was trying to run father's mind to a trip whose
incidents would serve a fine evidential purpose. Dr. Hodgson of course did
not see this, not knowing anything about the trip nor about my purpose, but
thought I was still trying to get the name when I was not. In the end,
however, thanks to G. P., the matter was somewhat cleared up, but the
confusion at this time still continues to show itself, though father makes an
interesting attempt to clear it.—J. H. H.]
It was not he speaking then. [Letters like in made here above between
he and speaking.] He had gone, H., but it was another spirit present just as
he left, but he is coming nearer and will be quite clear presently . . be
. . Be.
Yes. [with Sp.]
But there is apparently some reference to a trip which has not been
clearly D D. (Yes. I U D.)
Has he ever heretofore referred to any trip ?
(I am not quite certain except once. I think he referred once to a trip J
took with him out West, but I mentioned the other one in order to identify
my stepmother with whom he took a trip just before he moved out West.)
I see, well, I will assist him, do not hurry.
XLI.] 481
Appendix III.
[This is an interesting piece of comprehension by G. P. The spontaneous
recognition of the situation and cause of the confusion is a wonderful bit of
evidence for independent intelligence. He saw exactly what I was aiming at
and how my reference to one trip was confused with another. The whole
interference of G. P. at this point and immediately following, indicating an
independent consciousness of the confusion, is a most remarkable phenomenon
on any hypothesis except the spiritistic.
In talking to Dr. Hodgson about this sitting after I had written my notes,
and in explaining what was in my mind when I was pushing my inquiries
about the western trip with my stepmother, I found that Dr. Hodgson had
misunderstood the import of my language when talking to G. P. and thought
I was still seeking for my stepmother's name. Hence his inquiry for this at
a later stage of the sitting. But my sole purpose was to get my father to
talking on a trip of whose details I knew nothing, and in using the word
"identify" I merely wished to suggest to G. P. my purpose in asking for
incidents. I did not mean to demand a name. But it was natural for Dr.
Hodgson to make this mistake, as we had talked over the propriety of asking
for this name as we went to the sitting. The circumstances explain our own
confusion and afford a legitimate excuse for the confusion evident on the
other side. And it tells against telepathy with great force, because, if that
process can catch so easily what confuses us, it ought always to have caught
the things in my mind and which I wished to have stated. But in no single
case has my present thought been caught in a situation like this and
palmed off as father's.—J. H. H.]
Yes, this is . . the one he referred to was the one with yourself
yes, which interrupted his thought somewhat . . somewhat.
[Perfectly correct and interesting in the way it explains the interruption.
—J. H.H.]
I feel the necessity of speaking as clearly as possible James, and I will do
my best to do so . . B.
Do not try just now ; wait a bit. [Not read at once.]
Wait a bit. (S. : " Wait a bit.") Wait a bit. G. P.
[R. H. had interpreted theses* "wait" as said.]
Not said. Wait a bit.
(R. H. : All right. I understand.)
I think I will let you speak now and finish what you started to say.
It was Aunt Nannie. (R. H. : " About Nannie.")
About Aunt Nannie. I thought it all over about the cap when I spoke
of her. I say I . . .
(The cap was not made by Aunt Nannie. You told me rightly a moment
ago.) [See Note 79, p. 526]
You are not U D me, James, let me explain . . I thought of H
. . . H A R . . . H . .
No, go on.
I thought of my mother and aunt my sister both at the same time, and I
wanted to say that both of their names came into my mind as you spoke of
Mary here, and I got a little confused about it. [Cf. p. 432.] I am all right
now. I wanted to say something about our visit to her also.
[See Note 80, p. 526.]
■2 i
4S2 [part
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(R. H. : George . . .) [R. H. was about to say to G. P. that there
seemed still to be some confusion.] (S. to R. H. : That's going right. I
understand every bit of it.) [I said this with reference to the explanation
about names rather than the other incidents.—J. H. H.]
[Hand listens to R. H.] what [hand returns to R. H. to listen.]
(K. H. : All right. Never mind.)
And between the visit to the boys and Aunt Nannie I got confused a
little. (Yes. I U D perfectly. I U D perfectly.)
Well, we saw George. We saw George and Will.
Now what did I . . oh yes, I then arranged to go out there to live.
I . . [Pause.]
[This will require investigation. —J. H. H.] [See Note 81, p. 526.]
How are you, James ! + sent me to speak a moment while father goes
out and returns. I am very glad to be here again. It is I, sister Annie.
(Good morning. I am glad to hear you again.)
I perhaps can help you a little, James. I shall be glad if I can. Do you
remember . . do you remember anything about Birds, (Very little.)
about anything I did ! (Yes, I remember only one thing that you did. I
was very young at that time.)
Yes, but I remember the birds very well. (I am glad to hear it.)
Will you ask auntie if she remembers the one I caught (R. H. :
"brought?") [Hand dissents] (R. H. : "bought?") [Dissent.] caught.
(I shall ask her.) [I know nothing of this. —J. H. H.] [Cannot be verified,
as inquiry shows. (November 3rd, 1899.)—J. H. H.]
and the flowers I pressed. Will you ask her for me ? (Yes, I shall ask
her.)
1 think it was yellow in colour . . Yes. [to reading.]
[I remember nothing of this incident, but it is interesting as against the
telepathic theory to know that when this question was asked me by this
sister at a previous sitting I made inquiry of my aunt and she replied that
she knows nothing about it. The telepathic power would not return to this
if it could divine what condition of mind I was in on this matter.—J. H. H.]
[See later note (p. 425) in which I mention the probability that the
incident of the pressed flowers is true. They were purple pansies with yellow
centres (May 7th, 1901).—J. H. H.]
and I had a little pin holder I made when I was in the body. I think
she has it now. [No one can remember anything of the kind. (November
3rd, 1899).—J. H. H.] (I shall ask her. I shall ask her.)
I hope so. Here comes father and I am going now.
I am here once more and I am thinking about the trip I took with
H A t . . [Hand dissents.] H A R . . . No. [S. shakes his
head negatively.]
[This is still not clear to me, and evidently the shaking of my head was
interpreted as indicating that I was not getting what I wanted, and so
I was not, though it did not occur to me that the visit mentioned previously
in connection with the same letters was the one in mind.—J. H. H.] [See
Note 82, p. 527.]
I want to speak of other things. Will you try and tell mo exactly what
you want ? (R. H. to S. : I will.)
XLI.] 483
Appendix III.
(R. H. : Rector or George. There seems to be . . .) [Hand turns
suddenly to Sp., then makes gesture of assent to Sp. and listens again
to R. H.] (a locus of confusion with reference to James's stepmother
still. . . )
Not so, it hath nothing to do with mothers of any sort, but it is . . .
Mother [the previous mothert misinterpreted as bothers and troubles] .
but it hath to do with trips, which is confusing him somewhat, and I
would not worry him about trips, but let him answer when he returns again.
(R. H. : Yes.)
Then he will have it quite clear. But refer to something else.
(R. H. : One moment, Rector, please. Perhaps before next timeyou can
kindly look specially at this point, because the name of . . . because
the name of the mother in the body has never yet heen rightly given.)
Has it been asked for ?
(S. to R. H. : Better say stepmother.)
(R. H. : The stepmother has been referred to in various ways, for example
as Hettie's mother. She has also been called Nannie, but her name is not
Nannie.)
Well, there would certainly be a mistake in that because they all know
better here that that . . than that, because Nannie in the body only
acted as a mother to them after the mother of these children here came
here, and that must be why if they referred to her as mother Nannie. [A
perfectly correct way of stating the facts.—J. H. H.] [See Note 83, p. 527.]
(R. H. : No, Rector.)
I cannot U D it.
(R. H. : There have been several references to incidents which were true
about the stepmother, but in referring to these things, the name Nannie . .)
(S. to R. H. : Aunt Nannie) [R. H. looks up challengingly at S.] (S. to
R. H. : Nannie — right.)
[Notice this lapse of memory on my part and mistake in regard to what
was said at previous sittings. Dr. Hodgson was right, and I had been the
very person to call his attention to the distinction between "aunt Nannie"
and "Nannie" as implied by the incidents and their connection. My
interruption and error thus resemble very closely many of the cases in which
we attribute mistakes to discarnate spirits and dispute their existence on that
ground. We must admit the possibility of the same psychological problems
on the alleged other side which we can discover on this. My own experi
ments in the identification of personality illustrate this very clearly.—
J. H. H ]
(R. H. has always been mentioned when any name at all was mentioned.)
[S. had in previous conversation emphasised to me that Aunt Nannie had
been correctly used,"but that Nannie without the Aunt, had been used,
wrongly, for the tepmother.—R. H.]
Well, why do you not come out and say give me my stepmother's name
and not confuse him about anything except what you really want !
(R. H. : I think'that it has been asked for directly, but cannot be sure.)
(S. : Yes.)
Has it ? Very well, if she has a name you shall have it. G. P. U D.
2 I 2
484 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
[The exquisite humour of this is past all praise, coining as it does after the
reproach for my mistake, or Dr. Hodgson's, according as G. P. interpreted it.
The reproach was followed by explanation on our part and a statement that
we had done as here requested, and the recognition of it, with the half
penitent and humorous promise to satisfy us, is a remarkable exhibition of
intelligence which it would be hard to attribute to Mis. P.'s brain.—J. H. H.]
(R. H. : Yes . . One . . I have drawn special attention because I
thought it might help you to know that there seems to be some 1iecvdiar
difficulty about getting her name.)
I do not think so, H. ; but I do think he would refer to it in his own way
if let alone. I know how you confused me, by Jove [not read at once] and I
don't want any more of it.
Jove . . by Jove . [still not deciphered.]
I know how you confused me, by Jove (R. H. : "By Jove." Yes, I
have it) and I don't want any more of it.
I am going to help him and he is going to tell all he knows from A to 7,.
No doubt about it, H., no one could be more desirous of doing so than he
is. Is that clear to you !
(R. H. : Perfectly clear.)
Well, when he gets ready, out it will come, and there is no use wondering
about it. I see him now, and he is anxious to say something.
I hope you U D about the different names to which he has referred, if
not, better ask him to explain about them first of all, (R. H. : " explain " ?)
yes . . and there is no need of any mistakes except that this is a little
difficult for him, i.e., to speak fluently and freely.
[The same general observations as in the last note could be applied to
this whole passage from the end of that note to the beginning of this. Such
pertinent and clear indications of an independent intelligence could hardly
be imagined, though not founded upon evidential facts such as I have been
seeking. The memory of incidents connected with Dr. Hodgson and the
comparison of the present confusion with that which Dr. Hodgson had
produced in the same way is a remarkably interesting bit of intellectual
appreciation, indicating true facts at the same time, and with it the " By
Jove," coming as a little stroke of personal character, indicates, or goes to
indicate, that there is only one simple theory of the phenomena.—J. H. H.]
Did you hear what I said about Robertson, James 1
[This reference to " Robertson " is possibly an interpolation by my uncle
Carruthers (Cf. pp. 310, 317, 332). (January 9th, 1900.)—J. H. H.]
(Yes, I heard something about him once before, but it was very little.)
Well, you know what I mean, don't you ? (Yes, 1 know clearly if you mean
my brother.) I explained it I thought afterwards. (Not quite fully, but
don't worry about it. Go on as you wish.)
Do you remember what I said when you told me about the dreams and
what answer I gave you in regard to it ?
(No, I have forgotten that, but I think some one else may remember it
who was present.)
I said there were doubtless a great number of these cases when summed
up they . . summed . . would be of great importance in trying to explain
a life elsewhere, but they seemed to indicate it. Don't you remember it now ?
XLI.] 485
Appendix III.
indicate . . [not read above.]
Do you remember it now, and one of our own family had an experience
some years ago. Do you remember anything about this either ? (Yes. I
remember that. Can you say which one had that experience ?) [I was
thinking of the incident told by my stepmother in the conversations on
psychical research. (November 3rd, 1899.)—J. H. H.]
[I remember our talking about coincidental and premonitory dreams, Mrs.
D.'s having been the subject of our talk at the time already mentioned, but
I do not recall the instance of his remark as here indicated. Nor do I know
anything of this experience by my uncle " Clarke " referred to a little later.
But when I said that I did remember it I had in mind the experience,
mentioned in a previous note, of my stepmother's father or mother, I forget
which, on his or her deathbed, as it was referred to by my stepmother on
that occasion. But evidently father was distinguishing between two different
cases.—J. H. H.]
I intended to [N. B. : too] and I wanted to remind you of it before, but
I was too far off to say it before I came here. I have often thought about it.
in fact we have spoken of it together since I came here. I mean since
I passed out. [Change to spiritistic lingo interesting.—J. H. H.] It was
Charles who came and took my place before I had time to finish it. I will
try and finish it before I go. And he saw the light and spoke of it before he
came here, James.
Oh dear, I want to say a great deal more and cannot they give us more
light.
[Hand bows as in prayer.]
[I never heard any mention of this incident until at this sitting. It is
not spoken of as mentioned and discussed in the conversation here in mind,
and I never talked with my uncle about the subject of psychical research, so
that he could not have mentioned it to me.—J. H. H.]
The light is not so good this day as we would have it be, yet we will help
give it.
I am still here, James, and I am thinking about the experience your
uncle had before he came here. It was your uncle who had it, and we have
often spoken of it together here, James.
(Yes. That is the uncle who married your sister Eliza.) [I asked this
question for purpose of identification, as the name Clarke is not correct.—
J. H. H.] [Hand assents.] yes, Clarke. And it was a notification of his
coming suddenly. He often refers to it.
Is this clear to James, friend 1
[R. H. motions to S. to speak.] [I understood by this that Rector
wished to ask me if James would understand the significance of the
"notification," as I did at the moment, remembering a statement made to me
in 1897 by the Imperator group that the spirit always knew some time before
hand that it was about to leave the body by death.—R. H.]
(Yes, that is clear. Yes, that is clear.)
[When I said the statement was clear I meant that I understood what my
father meant in regard to the nature of the experience, and I supposed that
the question presented to Dr. Hodgson was meant to see that he should see
that I understood it. But it seems to have been an interpolation of Rector's
486 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
directed to Dr. Hodgson, and referring to previous statements of Rector to
him about premonitions of sudden death. I had never known of this fact.
It is Rector's wish, understanding the situation and meaning as he does, that
I appreciate the full significance of the phenomenon as well as the statement,
and to see the interpolation thrown into the narrative in this way, with the
intelligence that it shows, is a fine piece of work and difficult to explain on
any theory but the spiritistic.—J. H. H.j
I did wish to say this when I was referring to it last time, but as I say I
was too far off. I remember very well the facts and you must. Do you
remember his father, James ! I do not think you do. (No. No, I do not
remember his father.) I have met him here once. (S. to R. H. : * * *
[not heard by R. H.] ask for his name.)
I hope to be able to tell you a great deal more about them, as I think you
did not know what I can tell you. [See Note 84, p. 528.]
I will speak for a moment, and say I do not see any reason for anxiety
about Margaret. [Correct name of my stepmother.—J. H. H.]
(R. H. : Who says this !) George.
(S. : Margaret is right. The rest of it. Margaret is right. Can you tell
the rest, George ! )
He said I suppose I might just as well tell you first as last and
have done with it, or James may think I do not really know. Go
tell him this for me. You see I got it out of him for you, H., but you
no need to get nervous about it, old chap. (R. H. : All right, George,
thanks.)
Well, I cannot hold him any longer, and you will get more later.
[This is another interesting display of evidence for independent intelli
gence. The mechanical play of secondary personality has no resemblance to
the natural appreciation of a situation and interchange of ideas here indi
cated. G. P. goes away with father to get the name of my stepmother,
talks about it just as anyone would who had done as here indicated, and
chaffs Dr. Hodgson for getting nervous about it ! ! This is a psychological
miracle, like much else in this sitting, if it is not the work of an indepen
dent intelligence.—J. H. H.]
I . (R. H. : Yes. Good.) am glad to meet your friend even
though you fail to say anything about him. I am . .
(S. to R. H. : I knew his brother in Columbia.)
George Pelham, and glad to see you. I will stand by you at all costs.
(I am glad to meet you, especially as I know your brother in Columbia
University.) Yes, Charles. (That is right.)
[The prompt mention of the brother that I know and the mode of address
that follows is another interesting play of intelligence.—J. H. H.]
Good. I'll see you again. Auf Wiedersehen. (R. H. : Auf Wiedersehen,
old chap.) (Auf Wiedersehen.)
We would say the light is failing fast, (R. H. : Yes.)
and we cannot remain longer with thee this day. (R. H. : And the time
is up.)
Go forth in ],eace and worry not, (R. H. : Kindly send the light back
iprickly.)
God be with thee + {R.}
XLI.] 487
Appendix III.
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
[Inarticulate] * * *
Margaret. Margaret. Margaret. * *
Last sat ! (S. : Last Saturday V) (R. H. : What was that name ?)
that's that's. (R. H. : Margaret what ") That that was . . that's it.
Oh, dear, I saw Rector. I saw Rector and a lady.
Yes, that's funny, they kept whispering, whispering it all the time until
Rector turned.
[Margaret is the name of iuy stepmother, but it is also the name of two
on the other side. Hence Mrs. P.'s allusion to the lady with Rector
prevents my interpreting the name given as intended for that of my step
mother who is still living.—J. H. H.]
Introduction.
The first indication of the trance to me to-day was a slightly dreamy
look and far away gaze for a few seconds. Then Mrs. P. seemed to
become a little more lucid and moved her head a little, following this
act with the statement : " I am going to send those to Mrs. M. to-day."
This referred to some instructions about proofs of her photos by Dr.
Hodgson. They had been examining them and talking about them
some five minutes before, and the voice when uttering the sentence was
a little dreamy and weak. Presently she began rubbing her face with
her hands, and yawning. This was followed again after a little interval
by rubbing the face and eyes, with arrested coughing. Presently she
said in a very contented tone of voice : " I don't mind going to sleep
any more." Then her mouth opened slightly and after a short silence
a strange dry hacking and short cough was made. This was just
before the head fell on the pillow.—J. H. H.
June. S/h, 1899.
Record of Sitting, June 8th, 1899.
Prof. J. H. H. and R. H.
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
I don't mind . . I don't mind going to sleep . . . any more.
(R. H. : You don't ! It's pleasant, isn't it ?)
[Rector writes.]
HAIL. (R. H. : Imperator and Rector.)
Hail thee, friends of earth once more. (Hail to thee, Rector and
Imperator.)
We are glad indeed to be with thee this day. We have many duties to
perform this day, and a few words of advice and a few explanatory remarks
to make for thy better U D of our friend's confused condition. He came
with his thoughts full of things concerning his last memories at the meeting
before, and could not be made txi U D that he should speak of other things.
488 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Consequently we sent our helper to instruct him according to his U D of the
way in which he could best express himself. Besides the light was a little
low, and under such conditions we cannot do our best.
[This is an interesting account of the confusion the day before. It is,
of course, nothing more than we knew in general, or could surmise, but it is
one of those little touches of intelligence and fitness of speech that make up
the problem in these phenomena, on any theory we propose to adopt.—
J. H.H.J
We now advise that we meet thy earthly friend no more until after we
have restored the light as we have previously stated to thee, friend. Other
wise we would prefer to go on with him for a time longer. (R. H. : Yes, I
understand.)
But after we have arranged our work [{] and through prayer and other
wise restored the light }, bring him to us again, as it will be of great help
to his friends on our side, and we ask thee to be wary and rest thyselves
until we are prepared . . wary . . to meet thee again. (Yes, I under
stand, Rector.)
Be ye not too anxious, but keep in thy memory the thought that thou art
not alone, and guarded thou wilt be throughout the silence of thy father's
speech here. (Yes, I understand.)
Believe ye in the omnipotent and Allwise God, fail not to send thy
tender thought to Him . . tenderest thought . and He will guard
and keep thee in His Holy keeping. (R. H. to S. : [in low voice] Get away.)
[S. was stooping over so close that I could not get near enough to read the
writing.—R. H.]
Ponder well, dear friend, and think not when absent of these as idle words,
but let their meaning be what we desire them to be. In other words throw
thyself in all confidence upon . . on [!] Him and there is not .
ask for nothing more. + R.
[R. H. reads last sentence over. Hand dissents.]
(R. H. : "upon Him and") ask for nothing more . . (R. H. : "upon
Him and ask for nothing more.") [Assent]
Now, friend, whilst we are holding thy friends here ere they be allowed to
speak, ask for anything thou dost desire for thine own help. Also ask
anything which thou wouldst have us do for thee, no matter how difficult it
may seem.
(I would ask you to be with me always and to help in this work. I should
also like you to say how I should care for the body in order that I may carry
on this work.) [Cross in air.]
We ask thee to think over seriously and earnestly what our teaching
really doth mean, and think that without His Will nothing can be. Have
charity for thy fellow creatures who hath been less blessed than thyself. (I
understand.)
and partake only of the liquid called water in thy world.
Eat fruit fish . .
[The word called above not read, and fruit read as freely.
He snith called . . .
fruit, fowl [fowl not read immediately.]
bird, bread, and little meat. UD.
XLI.] 48»
Appendix III.
To us this is a most important thing as we see and are conscious of what
thou dost need. (Yes. I understand exactly.)
We are pleased, if thou wilt follow our instructions thou wilt have health,
strength (R. H. : " health and strength.")
It will not fail thee. And we ask thee at the closing [colsing] of each day
to thank Him for His watchfulness over thee. (Yes, I understand.)
(R. H. : Rector, do you mean by water, to exclude, for example, tea or
coffee or chocolate or mineral waters ?) [Hand dissents.]
No, none of these so-called . . or milk.
(R. H. : But all alcoholic ?)
absoi.utei.v. [Hand bows as if in assent to Sp.]
Yes, the stomach is not strong, and from a worldly point of view it should
not be overtaxed. [True and pertinent. —J. H. H.] We know all, even the
most minute things concerning this body, also its spirit. U D. (Yes, I
understand perfectly.)
We desire spiritual growth and perfect health of mind and body. (Yes,
I understand the necessity of this.)
Thou art well developed in a vast number of ways, but in order to carry
out the laws of the Supreme Being thou shouldst go on and live in the
highest possible light, and by so doing thou wilt not only be helping thine
own life, but the lives of all God's children.
Keep thy body clothed, fed, and thy mind and thoughts in the highest.
(Yes. Yes, I understand this.)
Let it be thy guide daily, and at the closing of one of thy so-called years
come to us and speak of the results. [S. seemed about to speak.]
Listen, friend.
Care for no mortal other than to help him.
(Yes, I understand this;)
In other words, live in the thought that thou art a part of God and that
that part is the man. IT D. (R, H. : Yes.)
At the closing of each day relax thy mind and body, and rest from thy
earthly work.
[A perfectly pertinent piece of advice which I have often had given
me, and which I have wished to carry out, but the large tasks created
by my work have generally prevented it. I cannot treat it as more
than a coincidence, but it deserves to be mentioned as that at least.—
J. H. H.]
Speak, as we have much to do in other ways, while the light doth burn
this day. (Yes, I shall be glad to consider all these things.)
If there is any one thing of which thou wouldst ask advice or for help,
speak now.
(I think I shall not ask father to-day. I can receive this some time in the
future.) [The word father above should be farther. On reading over these
notes on the day of the sitting it occurs to me that Professor Hyslop may
have meant farther, although I supposed him at the time to mean father.
He says that it should be farther.—R. H.]
and . . all well.
I have nearly repeated [requested] all right as He gave it me. R. . .
repeated.
490 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
[This whiile passage giving me both physical and spiritual advice is an
interesting hit of by-play in this business, and will be interpreted by most
persons as a piece of presumption. It certainly has a most humorous side
to it. Spiritistic proselytising from the other world is a new kind of propa
ganda, unless we accept similar attempts on the part of less accredited mediums
than Mrs. P. But it repeats the advice given to Dr. Hodgson and followed
by him with no special tendencies in him that I can observe toward dissolution
of body and soul. However, I am not concerned with either the correctness
of such advice or the possible effects of accepting it, but with the dramatic
play of personality which it shows, in connection with the previous promise to
give the advice, and with the humorous aspects of its proselytism.—J.H.H.]
I see George and Mr. Hyslop coming now with our leader.
[Slight perturbation in hand.]
I am here, James, once more.
(Good morning. Good morning, father ; glad to hear from you.)
Good morning, James ; I am glad to hear good morning once more, and I
am quite near to-day. [Hand moves towards R. H.]
I know your father very well. (R. H. : I am very pleased that you have
made his acquaintance.) [See sitting of February Kith (p. 389). I had
asked Mr. Hyslop to become acquainted with my father.—R. H.]
I find our minds were not quite the same when on earth, but our ideas of
God were.
[This is quite a correct statement of the relation between the beliefs of
my father and those of Dr. Hodgson's father, in so far as it can be determined
by a comparison of creeds. My father was a strict Presbyterian Calvinist
and Dr. Hodgson's father a Wesleyan Methodist, and so Arminian. (June
10th, 1900.)—J. H. H.]
You see they have told me that James is going away, and I want to know
you and have you take my messages for me sometimes.
I am glad you U D me better, James. Are you going home soon !
(Yes, I am going home in about two weeks.)
I want you to feel that I shall be there also, and I will remind you of
some of things I see you do while there. Do you hear ? (Yes, I hear, and
shall be very glad indeed to have you do that.) I will repeat them to our
friend here. (R. H. : I shall be very pleased to take them.)
I shall watch you very closely, James, and when you are talking to any
member of our family I will remind our friend of it, and what I hear you
say. (Good, that is fine. Good, that is tine.)
You will see that I will prove that I am with you still, even if I cannot
always speak my thoughts.
Do you hear me ! (Yes, I hear you perfectly.) Give me something to
think over and I will speak to you .
(S. to R. H. : Is that something to hold ?) [R. H. nods towards bag
containing articles.]
Do you recall the books I referred to yet, James i
(I think I do, but I shall find out when I see my stepmother.)
Will you ask her about the paper knife, not because I care for so trifling
a thing, only as a test for you i (Yes, father, I have already asked her. She
remembers it and so does Frank.)
XLI.] 491
Appendix III.
I am glad of it because I like to get these things offmy mind. I . . .
do you remember that Eliza's name was really Elizabeth ? (No. I did not
know that. I am very glad to find it out. ) She was named Elizabeth as a
child, and as time went on we began to call her Eliza. (Good. I am glad to
learn that. That is a splendid test.) And you cannot mistake it, James.
[See Note 85, p. 528.]
There was a Henry [!] McLellan also. I think perhaps you may know of
this. (No, I did not know of it, but I shall certainly inquire.)
he was . . he was, I think an uncle of our McLellan boys . . Yes,
(All right.) let me ... let me see . . .
[I did not recall at the sitting that this name had been given before (see
sitting of May 29th) and hence my negative answer, but I see now what it
means, and the relationship is correct. It is possibly an attempt to give the
name of Dr. Harvey McClellan, who is an uncle of the McClellan boys.
(C/. p. 422)—J. H. H.]
[I have made careful inquiry and have found that the " McClellan boys "
had no uncle by the name of Henry, and that their uncle Harvey is the only
person who can answer to this probable attempt at his name (June 10th, 1900).
—J. H. H.]
What did I tell you about Jennie a short time ago ?
(We only got the name, and I could not make out its meaning. We only
got the name, and I could not make out its meaning.)
Let ine see . . . I think . . HAR . . . MARGARET
had some relative of [written above after whom was written] whom she used
to speak as Jennie, but I won't be sure of this, as I cannot quite remember,
but I think she did ... I think she did.
[This about Margaret and Jennie is not clear to me, in fact is meaning
less.—J. H. H.] [See Note 86, p. 529.]
I thought of it several times, but I could not quite remember. You see,
James, I was not wholly conscious when I came here, and I suddenly thought
of every one of my dear ones the moment I awoke. I go over and over
them in my thoughts daily, and I often wonder if they know how near I am
to them. I want you some time to talk with me as we used to talk together.
(Yes. Yes, father, I think I can say a few words now.)
[Hand listens to Sp. and then makes cross in air.]
I would be so glad to hear you, as it will help me to keep my thoughts clear.
(Well, I shall talk a few moments about some earthly things that have
happened since you passed out. I bought the house in which you lived out
West in order to avoid expenses with the courts.) Oh, I U D well. I am glad.
(George is still on the northern land.) and will be I fear. [Perfectly
pertinent.—J. H. H.]
(Well, we shall see what we can do with it.)
I will be on the look out and see what I can do by using my influence
from this side of life. I may do much.
(Very well. I shall be glad if you can. You . .)
[Hand starts as if to write, then returns to listen again.]
(You will remember Harper Crawford, I think.) [Excitement in hand.]
Yes I do, very well. What about him ! I have tried, and tried, and tried to
spell his name for you, but I could not seem to articulate for their U D.
492 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Yes. I understand perfectly. I shall mention another, too. Do you
remember Robert Cooper i) Certainly I do, very well indeed, and I have
intended to speak his name for you also, but tell me about the mortgage.
[This reference to a mortgage in connection with my cousin Robert
Cooper is very pertinent. He was badly handicapped by debt at the time of
my father's death and had his farm heavily mortgaged.—J. H. H.]
(I have not heard about it, but shall learn this summer.) And then let
me know about HARPERS (Harper Crawford, you mean i) [Assent.]
(All right. I shall ? do so.) [I did not catch the word missing.
—R. H.]
I want to know this one thing only. Are they doing anything about the
chn rch ?
yes only [re-reading of sentence above. ]
(What church do you refer to, the church in your old Ohio home ?)
[Assent.] (I have not heard but shall inquire.)
They have put in an organ . . Organ.
[R. H. turns from his note of S.'s remarks to read the writing, and sees
that the order of the words is not clear.]
(R. H. to S. : When was that written ?) [pointing to the yes only], [S.
indicates that yes only was written first.]
They have put in an Organ, James. [I know nothing of this.—J. H. H.]
(Very well. I shall look that up. Do you mean the first church ? Do you
mean the first U. P. church ?)
I cannot seem to get that, James. [Hand listens again.]
(Do you mean the first United Presbyterian Church ?) I cannot get that.
Can you say it for me slowly ?
(Do you mean ... do you mean the First United Presbyterian
Church !) Say the two last slowly . . got it all but that.
(United) yes. (Presbyterian, Pres-by te-ri-an.) Yes, I do.
(Very well. I understand. You say they have an organ now)
I say yes.
Very well. (1 shall be glad to find out about it.) Yes, but I am telling
you.
(I understand perfectly ; that will be a good test.)
Well, it is so, James. [See Note 87, p. 529.] Tell me something more
about George. He always did look out for number one.
(Yes. I cannot tell very much about George, because, as you know, he
very seldom writes letters. You understand.)
Yes I think I do, perfectly well. [S. laughs.] [Avery pretty recognition.
—J. H.H.]
(When I come back here again I think I can tell you many things about
him.) Yes, but, James, I know a great deal myself and did worry . . worry
. as you must know. Worry as you . . [Correct.—J. H. H.]
(Yes, I understand, and you know / worried much also.)
Yea. Who could know better titan I do t Remember what we talked
oner when you came out there. (Yes.)
Well. I can say only one thing, do not . . not . . worry any more
about him or anything else. (No, I will try not to worry.)
[See Note 88, p. 531.]
XLI.] 493
Appendix III.
And about the fence [feuse] I am thinking about the tax I left. (R. H. :
"about the fence ? ") Yes, fence [fense].
(The tax has been paid. I settled that all right. Nearly all the debts
have been cleared off. We owe only aunt Nannie a little.) Oh what a relief
to my mind. I have thought and thought and thought what would Frank
or George do if they had a hand in it.
[This is terribly pertinent. My brother Frank is an invalid, and it is
pertinent that he was named in father's will as one of the executors.
My brother George was always so busy and so slow to answer letters on
matters of business that the two facts explain this allusion very clearly,
and all that has previously been said about him.—J. H. H.]
[See Note 89, p. 531.]
Do you remember what you did for me once '!
(I am not sure just now, but if you will remind me)
in regard to a tax one year. It was what I wrote to you [the to crossed
out] . . It [I] was what I wrote you about . . about . . and you
actively helped. (I do not remember it, but you must not be surprised
because I helped you so often with money you remember.)
Yes, but about . . dear James, do you not remember just before I
came here I was not well at the time and I wrote to you about the tax. I
should never forget it. (I do not exactly recall it, but I think it most pro
bable, because I know just what the situation was.) Well, it will come back
to you, I hope, as it will live with me for ever.
What about the fence ! Do you know what I mean ? (I think I do. I
know that we have repaired the fence.)
All right. I intended to have it done before I left, and I also had this
on my mind. (Yes, that is now all straightened out.)
[The reference to the taxes and the fence is pertinent, very pertinent
indeed, though it is possible that the instance of the fence is a little equivocal.
I know that father was exercised about the time of his death about the con
dition of the fences on his farm, and that when I with my brother assumed
our executors' duties we had to look after this matter and to settle some
accounts connected with father's orders about it. But I also know that my
brother Frank had urged his removing the rough fence about his house in the
West, and my brother once told me, if I remember rightly, that he thought
father was about persuaded to accept this course. I am less certain, however,
about this part of the matter than I am about the needs of the fence on the
farm in Ohio at the time of his death, and our completion of the work.
I do not remember any correspondence about the taxes to which he refers.
I think I have his letters, and may find whether the statement is true or not.
But the facts are these. The wheat crop had completely failed, and the
previous corn crop had brought very little, so that father had absolutely no
money to either pay the taxes or to live on without borrowing, and no man
ever hated more than he to borrow money when he saw little chance of
repaying it. He was also very prompt and scrupulous in paying his taxes,
but this time the want of money prevented his paying them, and the date
for paying them without a penalty was nearly up. It was about the 26th or
27th of August. He took sick about ten days previous to this, and died on
the 29th. I found out by calling at the tax office a day too late that the
494 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
penalty could not bo avoided, and I never told father this fact. But
when he mentioned his situation on his death-bed I told him not to worry
about it, that I would see to the matter, and I paid the taxes after the funeral
and before I left for the east.
But I can hardly think that the language of his statement here can be
correctly interpreted as referring to this incident of his condition at the time.
It apparently refers to some other occasion about the same time. But I do
not remember any pirticular incident regarding it. I know only that father
was very anxious about the taxes at the time of his death, and that I promised
to see that there was no trouble about them. As here said to him, I so often
helped him when he called on me, and I was so busy with my work at the
college that I remember no special occasion of such help, except after his death,
and this does not seem to be pertinent.—J. H. H.] [See Note 90, p. 532.]
Do you know how you are helping me unburden my mind I shall be so
glad when these things are off from it.
(Very well. Do not worry about things. They are in very good order.
Remember, we had very hard times when you passed out . . . ) (R. H.
to S. : Not so fast.) (But the presidential election) (R. H. to S. : Wait a
minute.) (turned in favour of better times.)
What turned . . what turned ? (The election of Mr. McKinley.)
Oh, I I'D; the president, you mean. Did you say election t
(Yes, that is right.)
Oh, I U D perfectly. I could not at first U D the words election and
President ; they seemed so muffled . . muffled, James.
(All right. Do you remember how you shook a walking-stick to my
cousin about that time ! Do you remember how you shook a walking-stick
or cane to cousin Robert MoClellan about that time !) [Excitement in hand.]
Well I do, I never was more excited in my life I think I was right too.
[True. Father was as much interested and excited about the issues in
that campaign as he was about slavery during the civil war. I remember in
speaking to him about the issues of the campaign that he threw up his hands
and exclaimed as best he could with his lost voice, "you can never reconcile
debtors and creditors." The expression, "I was right, too," is perfectly
characteristic. Both the phrase and the tone of belief are his. Father
knew when he was not certain about political and economic problems, and
if he found something to be true which he saw disputed, he would break
out in this way when he expressed his conviction and the satisfaction of
his mind. The recognition of my question is also interesting.
My cousin Robert McClellan had called to see him in this his last illness.
He asked father on which side of the political question he sided, the issue
being between the gold and silver parties. Father's voice was too weak to
speak and seizing an opportunity for a display of humour, he reached for the
walking stick which I had given him some time before and on which was fixed a
beetle in representation of a "gold bug," and shook it, laughingly, toward
my cousin. My cousin saw the point, and had a hearty laugh about it. I
heard the fact from both of them and from my mother afterward.—J. H. H.]
[See Note 91, p. 532.J
(Well, who gave you that walking-stick ?) [S. touches R. H. to draw his
attention to hand.]
XLI.] 495
Appendix III.
[Forefinger of listening hand is tapping on left temple of S.]
You did, and I told him about it. [indicating R. H.]
[This was as dramatic a play of personality as I ever witnessed, as well
as being absolutely correct in regard to the facts. I did give him the cane,
and from the reference to the curved handle in the sitting with Dr.
Hodgson (p. 397) I had inferred that, if we were to treat the communi
cation as intelligible and true, it was probably this "gold bug" cane that
was meant. Hence the pointing of the hand toward Dr. Hodgson con
firms my conjecture.—J. H. H.]
[Later inquiries slightly modify the statement about the "absolute"
correctness of the message, but leave it mainly correct. See Note 92, p. 51i3
(May 7th, 1901).—J. H. H.
(Yes, I thought so. What was on it ?)
What was on it ? I think I know that it had the little top [?] I . . I
think it had the little ring [t]
(S. to R. H. [in a whisper]: not quite. )
(I think I know what you mean by that. That is near enough. Do not
worry. You recall it well.)
[This attempt to draw the beetle or "gold bug " which was on the stick in
lieu of struggling with the name was another interesting performance, and
suggests the resources which have to be adopted for accomplishing the
purpose of the communicator in embarrassing emergencies.—J. H. H.]
[My discovery in the West of the curved handled cane which I had for
gotten, which had been mended by a tin sheath or ring, and which the mimic
incidents in the sitting of February 22nd (p. 400) tit more accurately than any
other supposed stick makes it necessary to admit an equivocal meaning in this
symbol. It might be taken to represent this tin sheath or ring and the
manner of fastening it on the broken part of the cane. But for a more
detailed examination of the facts I must refer the reader to Note 92, p. 533.
(June 10th, 1900.)—J. H. H.]
I will refer to it again later. (All right. You remember it was connected
with the campaign.)
Yes, well, and I remember the talk I had with R. about the President.
[Correct incident and initial of the name I had mentioned a few moments
before.—J. H. H.] [See Note 92, p. 533.]
EE** [undec.] Ellen. (R. H. : Ellen ? Ellen ?) Eln . . E
Helen . . I tried to give it to Rector. I will when I go out.
It has . . I wonder if your mother has got that old chest . .
chest . . I had when I left it had . . (R. H. : "when I left it")
when I left. [Period strongly marked.] It had some clothing in it. I
bought it at an auction I think years ago. (Well, I shall ask her. I do
not know just now.)
Do you not remember of seeing it up on the attic [attic not read.] (R. H. :
Again, please.) attic floor [?] near the stairs . . stairs, just as you
go up.
on it.
49G [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Yes. I think I remember very well, though I am not certain, but I
think my stepmother Maggie will know.)
Yes, but ask . . and ask her if she didn't put the stick in it. (I
shall ask her.)
I want my stick. I mean [or near ?] stick. It was my stick, 1 mean. I
mean [or " near I mean "] and . . do you hear ? (Yes. I hear perfectly.)
[I remember a good old chest father had, but where he got it I do not
know, and it is barely possible that I saw it in the place mentioned, but I
have no recollection of the fact.—J. H. H.] [See Note 93, p. 534.]
And there are many things I wish to refer to later, James.
(Very well, I shall be patient about all these things.)
Well, I hope so, because it is not as clear to me as the man who is kindly
helping me.
(R. H. : Rector, perhaps he'd better go now.)
I am being called myself by our leader and he will have more to say.
(Well, father, it is a great joy to have been here again. And when I
return we shall have much more to talk about. In the meantime) (R. H. to
S. : Not so fast.) (I wi>l Uke your love to all I see.) (R. H. to S. : No, I
can't follow. Stop !)
You will give my love to Maggie, Nannie, Eliza. Oh, she is not there,
but take it to her.
[This is a correct list of the names to whom father would be most
interested in sending his love ; the first is my stepmother, and it is by the
name she was always called. But I had purposely used it a few minutes
before, and the only significance that can now attach to his mention of it is
the fact just mentioned regarding his natural interest, and more especially
the correct distinction of place implied in the exclamation : " Oh, she is not
there, but take it to her." My stepmother does not live where my old home
was, and father had already been told by me that I was going home, as the
leader may remember. My aunt Eliza does live at the place of this old
home, and my aunt Nannie is always visited on the way to it.—J. H. H.]
Go on. I am going away now. (Good-bye, father. Good-bye, father.)
James, good-bye. God protect you, my Imy, and may [you] be well and
happier. (R. H. : "May xjou be well and happy.") I am going. I will go
with you.
Friend we cease now and (R. H. : Can't read.)
May God's blessings rest on thee + {R} + Farewell. (R. H. : Amen.)
(Amen.)
[Mrs. P.'s sublim.]
[Several inarticulate sentences.]
Tell Hyslop . . . father.
Imperator says tell me to take it.
I want the tall one.
Yes. I'll tell * * [inarticulate].
Isn't that lovely !
Oh, that's . . that . . that's Imperator.
That little gentleman took the flowers off with him.
That's my body . . it prickles.
XLl.] 497
Appendix III.
I add here the final references to myself and my father as given at
the two last sittings held by Dr. Hodgson before Mrs. Piper rested for
summer.
[Rector writing. Sitter, R. H.]
July 3rd, 1899.
* * * And to thyself and Hyslop we would say one word. (Yes.)
Fear not the scorn of mortals, but serve God in all things, remembering that
nothing can be without His will. (Amen.) * * *
July 6</i, 1899.
* * * (First, I have a message to send to Hyslop's father. He says
that his father was right about the fire incident and the religious controversy
with "friend Cooper," so that he may put those off his mind.) Amen, this
will help him much. (That is all about Hyslop, specially.) Yes, but there
is much for him to do and look up yet, and his father is assisting him
silently. (Yes, he is hard at work and will be most of the summer, writing
and thinking and inquiring about it.) + All well in so doing. It will be
the only way by which we can prove to him absolutely the true fact that his
father is alive here. (Yes. He is faithful and persistent.) There must not
be any neglect of duty in regard to this, viz., the broken wheel, the visit of
the sister to church, the prayer meeting in the barn, the sunstroke of one of
the McLellan family. U D. (Yes.)
Good day, I am off. [I then realised that Hyslop Sp. was there.]
(Good day, Mr. Hyslop.) God be with you. (Amen.)
I would say one word more only. Some of the things date back many
years. (Yes, I understand.) Adieu (Adieu.) * * *
Latest Notes to Appendix III. ; Sittings from Mav 29th to
June 8th, 1899.
July 21sf, 1899.
The following notes are made from answers to personal inquiries made in
the West whither I went for the purpose of investigating the statements made
in Boston and of which I knew nothing myself. I took full notes of the
answers and remarks made by all persons who were connected with the names
given at the sittings or who could be expected to know anything about the
incidents mentioned.
New York, November 8th, 1899.
Note 37.—As this Maltine incident was the only one in the whole record
that appeared on the surface of it to indicate a fact known to me and not
common to the supposed knowledge of my father, I thought it necessary to
examine into it. I knew from my observation in all the sittings at which I
was present that Mrs. Piper had not seen the box to which I have alluded in
2 K
498 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
her normal condition. But I did not know whether Dr. Hodgsoni had con
cealed the box from her as effectually as the articles it contained, and hence
as an alternative to telepathy we could have the possibility of an admission
to the subliminal through the supraliminal, though this was more than
improbable in the sittings personally attended, and inconsistent with all that
we know of Mrs. Piper's recent trances. I had then to reckon with the
possibility that it was obtained tele],athically, assuming that it was not a
medicine that my father would use for his disease at all. Hence I considered
the coincidence with reference to what I knew of the medicine and the box
in question. But not knowing what my father may have taken I did not
permit the incident to go uninvestigated. Hence I wrote to my brother,
stepmother and sister to know whether father had ever taken any Maltine or
contemplated taking it. The answer of my sister and stepmother is that
they do not know positively, but very much doubt it. The answer of my
brother is as follows :—
Bloomington, Indiana, November 7th, 1899.
Mv dear James,—Received the questions from you to-day and reply as
soon as possible. No, father did not use any of the Maltine. But while I
was visiting at Will's, mother wrote that he was losing flesh. This showed
that he was not getting sufficient nourishment from his food. And as I knew
that Maltine was a good digester and tonic I wrote and advised father to get
some and use it. But he did not do it. However, it is likely that he had
some talk about it at the time of my wiiting to him about it.—Love to all,
Frank E. Hysi.op.
This case turns out then somewhat like that of " Munyon's . . . .
Germiside." It was a medicine which he was advised to take and most
probably contemplated, and so comes near enough to specific incidents in his
mind while living to prevent any dogmatic decision in favour of the exclu
sive application of either the telepathic theory or that of Mrs. Piper's accidental
knowledge filtered into the subliminal. The fact that my father would at
least know the name of this medicine could not be given any weight in an
apology for spiritism, but the specific place which my brother's advice would
have in his mind would naturally occur to him or anyone else trying to think
over the efforts to stay the disease with which he was suffering, though we
must wonder why he did not name a more familiar medicine which I
i 1 was careful in all my own sittings not to unwrap the box labelled Maltine
until Mrs. Piper was in trance, and to wrap it up again before she came out of the
trance, and I believe that prior to the incident in question the box was never within
the field of Mrs. Piper's vision. I had also inferred from something th*t Professor
Hyslop had either said or written to me that this box had nothing to do with his
father—R. H.
Though I did not state in so many words, as my letters show, to Dr. Hodgson
that the Maltine box had nothing to do with my father, the only rational meaning of
elaborate statements describing packages that I sent him for use is exactly what he
suggests here. I indicated the relation of the Maltine box to the experiments in
three separate letters which I still hold, namely, one of January 2nd, one of
January 31st, and one of February 3rd, 1899. I described it as merely containing the
articles which I sent as having been used by my father.—J. H. H.
XLI.] 499
Appendix, III.
had in mind when I put my question, but which he never mentioned sit all.
Whatever the difficulties in such a fact and in spite of the circumstance that
we cannot apologise for the spiritistic view by emphasising the possibilities
of this reference to Maltine, yet they are great enough to preclude any
attempt to insist on telepathy as the exclusive alternative, especially if we
are permitted to use the reference to " Munyon's .... Germiside "
as an automatism.
October 15th, 1899.
Note '.18.—When the name "Nani" was given here, I supposed that the
intention was to mention my aunt Nannie, as other notes indicate in similar
situations. But after the large number of cases in which the name Nannie
without the qualification "aunt" was used most probably, or certainly, for
my stepmother, it is more natural to put this interpretation on the use of
that name here, especially as she was the one who would be most likely to
remember the way he used to read his paper. But I refer to the case again
because another fact has occurred to me that may explain why the mistake
of " Nannie " for " Maggie " may have occurred. Rector must be supposed
to know that my own mother was with my father " on the other side." But
nothing had been said to indicate to him that I have a stepmother, until the
attempt was made in the sitting of June 6th to get the name of my step
mother correctly. In this attempt it will be observed that Rector recognises
at once the absurdity of calling my mother by the name Nannie, as he at
once explains that they know better over there, inasmuch as my Aunt Nannie
had only acted as our mother after the death of my real mother (p. 481i).
This had of course been intimated in an earlier sitting (p. 449) in a message
from my father, and Rector might have inferred it from my statement in the
letter from me to my father read to him by Dr. Hodgson (p. 400). Rector's
mind was thus in the situation to apperceive messages referring to my step
mother under the name "Nannie." But I cannot insist upon this way of
looking at the facts because the mistake was committed in the name at my
first series of sittings where we cannot suppose that any intimation from my
side had been given of the relation between my aunt and domestic affairs.
Hence it must be treated as the usual mistake of " Nannie " for " Maggie "
by the trance personality.—J. H. H.
Note 39.—The latest notes of Appendix II. (Note 29, p. 410, and Note 30,
p. 412) reveal the results of inquiries that cleared up the interpretation of
the Cooper incident and show at the same time the source of my illusion in
the note made at this sitting of May 29th (p. 421) regarding the name John.
Moreover I had explained the pertinence of the reference to " John " only
tentatively, as I had no assurance that this John Cooper was not living,
But I wanted the apparent significance of the coincidence to be seen, on
any theory possible in the case, as it actually represents what I shoulc
have expected father to mention in connection with Samuel Cooper ano
when I consider his specially kind feelings and sympathies for John Coopei
in his mental misfortunes, in spite of the alienation between himself and
the father of this John Cooper. But having found that this John Coopei
is still living, the scepticism indicated in the note of May 31st is confirmed,
.5oo [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
while the discovery of an extraordinary pertinence in the reference to "the
Cooper school and his interest there" removes the difficulty that I felt and
expressed in my first note on the case. There was also a misrepresentation
on my part of the first mention by my father of Cooper after my question
sent to Dr. Hodgson. (See sitting of February ltith, p. 38fi.) The
distinction is actually drawn there between the Cooper I had in mind and
this Dr. Joseph Cooper that father evidently had in mind, but my complete
ignorance of this latter person made me assume that 1 was either dealing
with a confused memory or with the complexities of secondary personality.
But the fact that father had known of a "Memorial School" for thifl
very man, the pertinence and relevancy of the allusion to philosophical and
religious discussions with him, and the removal of the difficulty in connection
with the name "John" show a perfectly definite unity in this allusion
here in the sitting of May 29th. The following facts will explain the
source of my father's knowledge regarding this school and the importance
of the reference to Dr. Cooper and the incidents of the sittings.
My father had taken the Christian Instructor ever since its organisation
some seventeen or eighteen years before his death. It was edited by my
uncle, the husband of my aunt Nannie mentioned in these records, and who
had suddenly died seven weeks before my first sitting. Dr. Cooper took
sick in the year 188(i, and the fact was mentioned in the columns of the
Instructor. He himself, conscious of being on his death-bed, as indicated by
the language of his letter, wrote to my uncle a short letter on his views of
the resurrection, and it was published in the Instructor of July 29th, 188ft,
with a lengthy editorial by uncle in reply, taking issue with Dr. Cooper's
view. On the date of August 2(,th the paper gave a notice of Dr. Cooper's
death in Cleveland, Ohio, on August 22nd, in a prominent article. On
September 22nd a phototype memorial of Dr. Cooper was offered to sub
scribers by the editor. In the issue of December 2nd mention was made of
the college at Sterling, Kansas, and also on December 9th. Cooper Memorial
College was mentioned by name on the dates of January 20th, 1887, and
November 3rd of same year, and then special attention called to it by name
in a considerable article on September 20th, 1888. I did not examine
farther into the record of the paper, as the conspicuousness of all the notices
is ample evidence that my father most likely obtained his knowledge of the
" Cooper school " in this way. All the notices were as prominent as
editorials.
It is perhaps worth observing that my father's allusion to the philosophic
discussions and correspondence may be confused references to the correspond
ence of Dr. Cooper with my uncle, as the subject was the resurrection and
immortality. The misunderstanding would probably be Rector's. The
mistake, taking the exact language of the record (p. 397\ as it bears rather
upon the question of communication, would be considerable, but it is con
ceivable that it might occur.
One of the most interesting features of the incident, after ascertaining its
pertinence to Dr. Joseph Cooper, is the reference to "a journey which we took
together.'' The " Memorial School " which I have mentioned as having been
built in memory of this man, was situated in Kansas, whither my father and
stepmother went on a journey in 1884, and it is a pretty case of association
XLI.] 501
Appendix III.
to note even that a journey is mentioned in this connection, though my
stepmother's name is not mentioned with it. A similar possible interest
attaches to the mention of the name Lucy, as discussed in the next note.
(Note 40.) My note (p. 421) shows, however, that the connection here
might imply that the journey was either with this Cooper or with myself.
There is no specific mention or reference to my stepmother under
any name. But the journey as a fact was never taken with this
Cooper, and the rapid movement of thought all along here from one incident
to another makes it unnecessary to make the associative implication that the
journey was with this man, while the law 'of association would be correct on
either assumption regarding my stepmother or myself : for it was on the
journey with her in 1884 that father visited the State in which the Cooper
School was afterwards built and visited me in Chicago on his return (Cf. Note
53, p. 507), while I took a journey with him West in 1861. But the more
natural association here would be my stepmother. Assurance that this is
the meaning is wanting for the reason that no name is mentioned. It is
interesting, however, to see that a natural and pertinent connection of
thought is discoverable in the passage, even though we cannot regard it as
evidential in specific characters.—J. H. H.
Nute 40. —My stepmother tells me that she had a cousin who was always
called Thusie, her full name being Arethusa. Father visited this cousin in
Pennsylvania with my stepmother. The only reason, of course, for putting
any possible meaning on this incident is the following. (1) The previous use
of "Nannie" for my stepmother, as finally shown by the reference to
" Hettie's mother ' in the cap incident. (See sitting of June 7th, p. 478.)
(2) The easy mistake which might occur in the regular difficulties connected
with proper names, especially when there is some resemblance between
" Lucy " and " Thusie." (3) The fact that the right relationship is stated in
the message, if the interpretation of the name be correct. (4) The refer
ence to my brother Frank in this connection associating him with a visit.
It was while reading the proofs that the fourth point in evidence occurred
to me. It came to my memory like the vague recollection of a dream that
my father, together with my stepmother, had paid a visit with instead of to
my brother Frank in Pennsylvania, and I inquired to find that I was correct.
But this was in 1873, one year after my father's second marriage, while the
visit to my stepmother's cousin was in 1882 or 1883, when my brother Frank
did not accompany them. Have we here confused remnants and associations
of both visits ? It is to be noticed also that this second visit was just a year
or two before father made the trip West with my stepmother, and while he
was thinking of moving West. Have we then in the later allusion to having
mentioned a trip West with my stepmother (p. 480) any reference to the
present message ? This later allusion looks too much like an echo of my
question, as the reader will observe, to entertain this conjecture with any
confidence, but if we could suppose that the later spontaneous mention of
this previous reference was less confused than it may be, and was not a
suggestion, the induction in favour of the present possibility would be more
plausible. But it can in no case be evidential. It depends on supposing
502 [PART
,/. H. Hynhqi, Ph.D.
that "Lucy" is a mistake fur " Thusie," while the supposition that
the reference to "Nannie's cousin" is a different mistake from the one
assumed makes the case a possible reference to Lucy McClellan, and not
what is here imagined. —J. H. H.
Note 41.—On investigation I find that my sister Anna died when she was
nearly three years old, and we are hardly entitled to suppose on our ordinary
knowledge of psychology that she would remember such an incident as is
here mentioned. Besides, we knew of no "Allen boys." There were no
Aliens in our acquaintance. If 'we could suppose, however, first that we
have an abbreviation for " McClellan " in the word "Allen," as that name
and relationship figures here so frequently, and would fit, and second that
the incident is gotten in the same way that my brother Charles got the
chimney incident, there might be a possible meaning to the case. But it
certainly cannot be verified, and has all the probabilities of ordinary
mediumistic phenomena against it. —J. H. H.
Note 42.—My impression regarding the disposal of this horse was correct.
I wrote to my brother regarding the matter, and his answer is as follows.
The special pertinence in the mention of this horse lies in the impetuous
character and excitable nature of the horse, always terribly afraid of the
whip, and the perpetual reminders which father used to give us not to excite
him with the whip or to overwork him. This was very frequent after the
horse became windbroken. My brother's account of the death and burial
of the horse explains itself. When he wrote the letter he did not know
that I had to publish it, though its humour is not out of place.
Deshler, Ohio, May 3Ut, 1899.
Poor old Tom is dead, and was given a decent burial near the creek on
the Savel farm. I do not know whether he was shot when he became feeble
or just " went dead," but I was the sexton who officiated at his funeral, and
I know that he was put four feet under the ground with his heels up. I do
not know any more about " de-tail " except that he always turned it over his
back' George L. Hvsi.op.
Note 43.—Father's habit of reading his {taper in this rocking chair was
confirmed by my stepmother and it continued up to the time of his death.
The chair was a favourite of his, and had been long in his possession. —J. H.H.
Note 44.—I find on inquiry that my impression here was incorrect. I
remembered very distinctly special arrangements in connection with his chair
when sitting up during his last sickness, and inferred the probability, though
doubtful of it as my note shows, that a stool had been used. But in the
process of stating that the incident as I supposed it is not true, my step
mother remarked that during the last years of his life father suffered from
cold feet, and that she had provided him with a stool on which to place his
feet while warming them at the stove, but that he always refused to use it,
preferring to put his feet into the oven for his purpose, and shoving the stool
aside. The mention of the name Nannie again in this connection has its
pertinence and confirms my conjecture in the case.—J. H. H.
XLI.] 503
Appendix III.
Note 45.—If I were entitled to stretch things in this mention of names,
especially in connection with the clear name of my brother Robert, I could
give some meaning to them, for the next older brother is named William
Wallace. But the confusion is too great to say more than that this interpre
tation is not impossible, though we must have sufficient evidence of auto
matism and meaning in such instances elsewhere to justify any tolerance for
the possibility. —J. H. H.
Note 46.—Inquiry does not make this incident of the injured foot any
clearer. None of my brothers suffered such an accident. It may be that
later notes on the recurrence of the same incident will suggest a possible
interpretation to it, though I have no confidence in the matter, and would
be the last person to suppose it evidential in any case. (See sittings of
May 31st, p. 444, and June 1st, p. 450.)—J. H. H.
Note 47.—Since writing the note on father's constant habit of reproving
me for hard work I have read his letters to me since 1892, and they are full
of reminders that I was overworking.—J. H. H.
Note 48.—On reading this reference to a fire, which is said to have given
father a fright, to my stepmother and sister, both recognised its meaning at
once. Both remember the incident very distinctly that gave father and
themselves a very decided fright. They were returning from a social party
at a relative's, and saw evidences of a fire in the direction of the home, it
being toward evening. Father had always been afraid of fire in his large and
costly barn, and in his fear of this was persuaded to insure the barn,
after some hesitation about the legitimacy of insurance at all, his objections
to life insurance on religious grounds remaining, On this occasion they all
felt certain that the barn was on fire and possibly the home. A freight train
blocked the way of haste, but as soon as this obstacle was out of the nay
there were many hysterical efforts to hurry home, and all the haste made
that was possible to reach the scene of danger, and they ascertained that the
buildings were safe only when they came over the hill near the house.
Father had several frights from this fear of fire to the lnirn when waking
from his sleep at night, and mistaking the moonlight for his burning barn.
Once he aroused all in the house only to find that it was an illusion caused
in the usual way by the moonlight. But from this story of the facts we can
readily see how his memory was likely to be affected by his experience, and
that his impression and fright, as here described, or rather alluded to, was
what it is represented to be. It is barely possible that I heard of the inci
dent in father's letters of that date, which I do not possess now. But I was
not at home then.
It will be apparent to the reader who compares this case with the earlier
allusion to a fire, that there is a decided difference between them in their
detailed meaning. (See sitting for December 26th, 1898, and also of
February 7th following pp. 324, 372.) If there is any proof of instances in
which the communicator confuses a true incident beyond evidential recogni
tion, the memory here of having referred to an incident which no one
recognised before would be indication of the fact, and may help us to suspect
504 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
that there is a basis of truth in other instances where similar confusion
mars the evidential value of an incident that is suggested as possible.—
J. H. H.
Note 49.—Subsequent study of this passage, beginning with the name
"Charles" and terminating with that of "John McClellan," suggests an
interpretation which is quite free from the difficulties indicated in the pre
vious note. It was the result of Dr. Hodgson's remark to me that possibly
my question just preceding the message, "Brother John," was either not
heard or not appreciated, which is a very common thing, though it may be
taken up later. We have then only to suppose that there was no intention
to say " Brother John," as we should most naturally and perhaps justifiably
interpret the expression in all conversation where there are no difficulties in
communication assumed, but that a single communicator said or tried to say,
" Brother and John McClellan," a part not being heard by Rector, or that
as Charles shouted "Brother" my father tried to give the name "John
McClellan," and I get the fragmentary result. The pissage, therefore,
down to the names which stand for my uncle Carruthers becomes clear and
intelligible on either assumption.
But the names under which my uncle pisses in these records followed
immediately and have to be interpreted either as an incoherence due to
automatism or a part of the intention of the communicator. We have then
the several possible interpretations of the intentions of the communicator.
(1) He may have been trying only to give the name of John McClellan, and
that of my uncle comes in as an automatism. (2) My brother Charles and
my father try together to give the name of John McClellan, and the
name of my uncle slips in as an automatism. (3) My brother and father
are trying to give the names of both my uncle Carruthers and this John
McClellan. (4) My uncle himself and my father are trying to give the
names of this uncle himself and that of John McClellan. (5) That in any
of these suppositions this John McClellan is present to assist in getting the
name of McClellan through.
The difficulty with the first hypothesis is that it cannot account for the
name " Charles " and the allusion to him as brother, if we assume that my
father is the only communicator, and on the other hand there is no reason
for the later statement that my father is speaking if we suppose that my
brother Charles is the only communicator. It is more natural to suppose
that they are both present assisting each other, as is often the ease, according
to appearances and statements in these records. I therefore reject this
hypothesis as not the most intelligible one.
That the names of my uncle are not to be treated as automatisms in
either the first or the second suppositions is tolerably clear from three con
siderations. First, in the sitting of the previous day (p. 422) my father had
tried unsuccessfully to give the names McClellan and Carruthers in suc
cession, and the attempts were marked with a great deal of confusion,
whether we attribute it to him or to Rector. Second, just preceding the
present messages and attempts at these names, father apologises for previous
confusion and asks that I allow him to straighten it out, an expression similar
to one which he again uses later regarding the name of John McClellan
XLI.] 505
Appendix III.
(pp. 448, 450). Third, the evident attempt in this same sitting of my cousin
(p. 428) to mention the accident by which my uncle Carruthers lost his life.
Hence the probability is that the object of the attempt is to give the names
of my uncle and that of McClellan with a view to suggest a point de repire
about which my mind may work when messages are sent.
There are two suppositions, different in character, which still come out to
this same conclusion. As my uncle Carruthers was so often called " Charles "
we might assume that he was meant in the tirst use of that name. Or we may
suppose that it was really my brother, as indicated in the language. The
latter is to me the simpler hypothesis and consists throughout with the idea
that the effort is to give the name of my uncle Carruthers along with that of
McClellan. But as an interesting illustration of complicated confusion in
conjunction with merely fortuitously favourable conditions to produce
it we can show how it might be possible to explain the same con
clusion by supposing that it was my uncle himself with my father at the out
set, and not my brother. His name was pronounced " Crothers," the " o "
being sounded as in " brother," and he was my father's brother-in-law. In
ordinary parlance, as well as in communications like these, "brother-in-
law" is often abbreviated to "brother" (Cj. p. 472). My question with the
word brother in it might be interpreted as asking for my father's brother-in-
law instead of my real brother, and the answer would be correct, supposing
my uncle's presence. If also we suppose, what is entirely possible, that
" brother " in the message, " Brother John," is Rector's mistake of the name
" Carruthers " (pronounced " Crothers ") we have an attempt to say possibly
" Carruthers and John McClellan, " the first name becoming " brother " for
lack of clear understanding on Rector's part, he having his apperception mass
determined by my question with the word "brother" in it. This would
make especially intelligible the immediate mention of the names under which
this uncle had previously passed in the communications. That just such a
confusion might occur is well illustrated by the experiments through a tube.
Witness " turnips " for "gauntlets," " change " for " strange," " prythee " for
"brother," "thought" for "but," "murder"for "weather," etc. (pp.627, 631).
I doubt whether this more complicated interpretation is to be tolerated, but
it is interesting to find that it consists with the same conclusion as the more
simple view while it has the advantage of indicating the problems with which
we have to contend in communications of this sort.
Note 50.—There is much obscurity in this passage referring to "cousin
Annie," and the names Hettie and Ruth. I cannot see why they should be
connected with the name of John, which I suppose to refer to old John
McClellan, unless we assume that he is acting as an intermediary for my
cousin Robert McClellan, his grandson. But assuming this, the reference to
cousin Annie would be correct, from the standpoint of my cousin Robert
McClellan, and the message would be somewhat like that from my brother
Charles at the next sitting, that of May 31st, when he referred to his " new
sister " (p. 440). The reader will recognise Hettie as the name of my half-
sister given a few minutes before the passage under consideration. Ruth is
the name of my cousin Robert McClellan's aunt, the deceased wife of the
Dr. Harvey McClellan I supposed intended the day before (p. 421), and
50G [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
hence the daughter-in-law of this old John McClellan. The phrase, "She
is only a friend, I think," is apparently Rector's explanatory remark. It is
correct in fact, as this Ruth was not a relative of the family, but only an
acquaintance of my father. I never met her so far as I know. That my
sister should speak of her could only be intelligible on the supposition that
it was connected with conversation on the " other side " designed to have
some communication made relevant to her husband still living, and in which
my sister was to figure as intermediary. —J. H. H.
Jnly 30th, 1900.
Note 51.—In my original note on this passage purporting to come from
John McClellan, which was written in the fall of 1899 after the most
thorough investigation, I stated that I could find no relevance in it.
None of the names had any pertinence in connection with the only John
McClellan about whom there could be any plausible reasons for inquiry.
I said in concluding : " It is the only case in the whole record (save the
group of names in the first sitting) that does not yield some hint of true facts
or connections that might start an intelligible clue to something as a reason
for such an extraordinary grouping of names." But the circumstance of
trying to obtain documentary confirmation other than the History of Greene
County, Ohio, for the service of John McClellan in the war of 1812, led to
the discovery of the true facts. The details of this discovery and of the
inquiries that resulted in it are given in a later note in connection with the
incident of the lost finger. (See Note 94, p. 535.)
But the facts pertinent to this passage ascertained during the process of
inquiry are that the John McClellan who is apparently meant here was not,
so far as I can learn, a relative of the McClellan family with which I am
directly connected, but a citizen of another part of the county in which
I lived, and who died in 1850, four years before I was born. Hathaway was
the name of a cousin of John McClellan's son-in-law and probably associated
with the family. The connection of the Williams with John McClellan
has not been so definitely traced as yet, though Mr. Jamison, nephew of
John McClellan, recalls the name as that of connections with his uncle.
My information puts their association probably as far back as 1825.
The most puzzling thing about the passage is to conjecture why I should
hear from this John McClellan at all. He was, of course, personally
unknown to me, as the date of his death indicates, and neither being a
relative, near or remote, of myself or the McClellans, that I knew nor even as
much as heard of by the oldest of the surviving McClellans that were my
relatives, I cannot imagine why such a person should turn up. I could
propose all sorts of excuses as to the reasons on the "other side " for such
appearance, but they would have no weight. I can only remark that my
grandfather on my mother's side, and hence my mother also, lived in the
general neighborhood which was the home of this John McClellan, and may
have associated with him or his relatives. But this must have been long
before my father's marriage. (January 5th, 1901.)—J. H. H.
Note 52.—Since writing the note in the body of the detailed record
(p. 438) I have been able to clear up only one thing in it, and a hint
toward this result was given in the message and correction by my uncle
xLI.] Appendix III. 507
James McClellan in the sitting of June 6th. I have since ascertained that
this John McClellan, whom I had in mind at the time, and because of this
fact directed my statements and questions accordingly, is still living ; in fact,
I called on him for information regarding incidents and names connected
with statements here made. But the correction of June 6th (p. 471) makes
clear who was meant, so that the John McClellan spoken of all along was a
correct name, but I had never known any one by that name, so far as
I could recall, except the one just mentioned. But it is apparent, as I
suspected at the time of the sitting and afterward, that my cousin Robert
McClellan appears in the question, "Do you know where Frank Hyslop
is," as his interest in my brother Frank while living would prompt him
quite naturally to inquire in this way about him. The John McClellan that
I had in mind might also naturally make a similar inquiry, because he and
my brother knew each other at the same college that I attended, of which this
John McClellan was the treasurer. He knew that my brother had lost his
health. Hence, assuming that I was dealing with one whose decease I did
not know, I pressed questions with a view to testing telepathy. The
whole passage, however, contained too much confusion, as I understood it at
the time, either to form any clear idea of its possible meaning or to estimate
its bearing upon theoretical questions. But the sequel of my investigations
shows that the passage obtains a better unity than I had suspected. (See
p. Ill and Note 94, p. 535). It is necessary also to remark that there is a
college in the village near where my cousin lived, about which he and I
had some correspondence regarding my stepmother's going there to
live after father's death. Hence my question and the statements made
are relevant enough, only I have not yet ascertained any truth or
meaning in the references either to my brother's being "at the library
and sending books over to him," or any other "Frank" in the same
matter. It is apparent, from the nature of the statements, that the
mention of my brother Frank is an association elicited by the name of
another Frank in mind whose identity I have not yet been able to trace, and
it is still more interesting to note that he adds the surname "Hyslop,"
in order to distinguish the one Frank from the other.
Note 53. —I have now to reverse this note indicating that the statement
about the visit would be pertinent if it had been as that note indicates.
My father did visit me in Chicago in 1884, but not "just before" he
died. But the most interesting feature of the fact is that I had wholly
forgotten this visit, so completely that I cannot recall a single incident of it
and would not believe it were it not that my stepmother and sister who
were with father at the time, and my sister-in-law also, confirm the fact beyond
question. It was on their return from the visit to Kansas in search of a place
to which to move, the plan being changed in 1889 to go to another State. I
was teaching near Chicago at the time. I had just returned from Germany
where I had been for two years, and as father had gone on this Western trip
before I returned home, and had not seen me until on his way home, which
lay through Chicago, I seem to have gone to the city and stayed all night at
the hotel with him and my stepmother and my sister, and the next day
to have taken them to a panorama of the battle of Gettysburg, all of which
508 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
I have totally forgotten, and have to accept on the testimony of the three
parties mentioned.
I do not refer to these facts to show the pertinence of my father's state
ment, but to show a most interesting defect of memory on my part, as both
the psychological relation of the remark and the allusion to the visit being
" just before he came here," indicate that the reference is to the subject of
our conversations on the question of spirit return with which he closed his
communications a few minutes previously (p. 438). Compare a similar error
later in the same connection, which was spontaneously corrected (p. 474).
Note 64.—Further study gives this communication a possible or probable
meaning which I had not suspected before. It did not occur tome at first to
interpret " side " as implying a blood distinction instead of locality. But if
we suppose this to be the intention and that my cousin was speaking of his
o?rn mother, as of course is most apparent, we have a very clear and
correct message. My cousin's mother was my father's sister, and his step
mother was my mother's sister. As I never knew his mother it was most
natural for him here to indicate who had spoken the name in order to prevent
me from thinking it was his stepmother, who is also not living. It appears
thus that his own mother is represented as acting the part of an assistant or
intermediary to effect the communication of the name Lucy. The supposition
of blood relationship, however, in the use of " side " involves supplying an
omitted pronoun before the word " father," referring to my father. This
would make the message as follows. "(My) mother said it (Lucy) only a
moment ago and she is on (your) father's side, and he comes and speaks of her
(Lucy) often." This would be equally correct in regard to previous commu
nications and in regard to the natural relationships in the case. —J. H. H.
Note 55. —Information which I obtained personally in the West makes
this whole passage quite clear, and unravels the confusion which I remarked
in my previous note. When ''aunt Nannie " was mentioned I thought of
my aunt Nannie whom father had mentioned and who was also the aunt of
my cousin, Robert McClellan, who was communicating, and hence I treated
the cousin Nannie mentioned as his sister, but I found her still living.
Hence the passage appeared to be absurd, especially when I reflected on the
statement that this "aunt Nannie" was said to be my cousin. But when
calling attention to some of the absurdities of communications of this kind
ti) my cousin, Nannie Stephenson, the sister of the cousin communicating, I
alluded ti , the contradiction in the passage here, and though all her convictions
were decidedly against spiritualism, genuine or spurious, she suddenly and
to my surprise exclaimed: "Yes, but brother Robert always called me
'aunt Nannie,' especially during the last few months of his sickness." This
was probably in deference to the habits of his children. His sister had
spent much of her time with him nursing him during this sickness. This
statement of his sister's at once threw clear light on the passage. It must be
remembered also that I knew nothing of the facts here narrated. I did not
know anything about his illness, except that he was ill, and would not
recover. The letter I wrote to his wife to inquire and to express interest in
XLI.] 509
Appendix III.
the case was never answered, and no one else as much as told me the nature
of the disease.
It is clear then that this "aunt Nannie," who was his sister, was rightly
said by Rector here to be my cousin, and then the statement that she was
still in the body becomes correct. But then the " cousin Nannie " who, as I
I had her in mind, was his sister, is still living, so that the statement that
"cousin Nannie is in the spirit" becomes false apparently. But it is
possible that my cousin said " cousin Annie," and that the proximity of the
name to the writing of " Nannie" referring to his sister, made the machine
write "Nannie" over again (Cf. Footnote, p. 238 and Note 95, ]i. 536).
This might easily occur either as a phonetic or a mechanical mistake. Now
my sister Annie, one of the communicators in this record, and to whom
I suppose the "cousin Nannie" referred, was the full cousin of Robert
McClellan, the present communicator, and hence assuming this reference
to have been his intention the statement would be correct. But it would
make the answer to my question absurd, unless we suppose, as is possible,
that what was in my mind and language was correctly understood, and that
his own reference to "cousin Nannie" (cousin Annie) was ignored, as we
may well suppose him ignorant of the machine's mistake.
The confusion as it appeared to my mind was a natural thing in my
ignorance of what my cousin called his sister, and it appeared worse as soon
as I learned from my aunt that my cousin Nannie was still living, she being
said here to be " in the spirit." No difficulty attached to the statement that
she was "Lucy's sister," because it is the habit of many people, and
especially among those of the locality concerned, to speak freely in less
accurate conversation of sisters-in-law as sisters. But the whole case is
made clear by a knowledge of the communicator's habit of culling his sister
"aunt" out of deference to the habit of his children, and by the possibility that
the "cousin Nannie" refers to his niece who is not living. It is simply a
case of different apperceptions on the two sides, both being correct though
the statements fit only one side. The point that must appear weak to the
reader is the interpretation of the "cousin Nannie" that is necessary to
make it perfectly consistent and significant from the standpoint of the
communicator.
Another interpretation to this whole passage is possible, and in fact
results in the same conclusion as the first, though it represents the unity of
the case in a much more complex form. It involves also more dramatic play
than in the view of the previous note, with perhaps stronger evidence on that
account for the spiritistic theory.
If we go back to the appearance of my cousin and accept my conjecture
that he failed (p. 442) to finish his sentence in the attempt to say that he
wanted to reach "all his dear '' relatives, we shall notice that the reference
to the name of his wife is Rector's statement after my cousin has been told
to "go out" and come again. Then Rector explains that the Lucy is not
Miss Lucy Edmunds, the sister of the Jessie mentioned, but some one
related to me. In the reply that he then makes to Dr. Hodgson's request
he states a fact which rather indicates that he thought this Lucy was the
one that "Annie and her father," these being my father and sister, had
brought with them several times to the communications. The fact was
,510 [part
J. H. Hyxhrp, Ph.D.
that this Lucy was still living, and my conjecture is that the one
they had brought with them was the communicator's mother, Mary
Amanda, sister to my aunt Nannie and my father, and mother to the
"aunt Nannie" here called my cousin as explained. Rector's state
ment, therefore, that "aunt Nannie will know well,' assuming that it
refers to my aunt by that name and mentioned throughout these sittings, and
who also was the aunt of the supposed communicator, my cousin, would
still be correct and fitting, and it would not be necessary to sup1iose that it
was either a direct or indirect message from my cousin giving the form in
which he called his sister during the illness in which she nursed him. My
"aunt Nannie" would know both this Lucy McC'lellan intended and the
"cousin Nannie," whether taken as a reference to my cousin by that name or
as a mistake for my sister Annie. She would also know the person said to
have been "brought here several times before," whom I have supposed to be
my aunt Nannie's sister and mother of my cousin Nannie, and who was
always called Amanda. But it would be simpler and just as pertinent to
make the "aunt Nannie " refer to the communicator's sister, as the explana
tion that she was my cousin would indicate, and this would involve no
assumption of confusion. When Rector says: "She is a cousin of thine,
friend," he does not indicate whether he means my cousin Nannie, sister of
the communicator, or the Lucy that had been mentioned, who is also my
oousin by marriage, being the wife of the communicator. My opinion is
that Rector, not understanding Dr. Hodgson's question, as actually indicated,
refers to the communicator's mother whose name he could not get, but hoped
to suggest by the reference to the communicator's sister, here called " aunt,"
as explained, and who was my cousin. But when I make my statement that :
" I remember one cousin Nannie and one aunt Nannie," the reply shows a
better comprehension of the situation. The statement that " Aunt Nannie
is in the body" is correct, and if the statement that "cousin Nannie is in
the spirit " can be interpreted to mean my sister Annie, this is also correct, and
the next statements in response to my further question as to "what relation
this cousin Nannie was to you," the communicator, were exactly correct from
the standpoint of my earlier question in which I had my cousin by that name
in mind, the sister of the communicator.
Hence, on any interpretation, we either get what is false and inexplicable
by telepathy, or what is true from two separate standpoints and too complex
both in its truth and misunderstandings to be easily amenable to telepathy
as we know its operations.—J. H. H.
Note 56.—This passage has always remained psychologically puzzling.
There is nothing in the thoughts with which my father left the " machine " a
few minutes before to suggest the connection which my note in the detailed
record indicates. Nor is it materially connected with the communications
from my cousin, which it immediately follows. I had originally supposed
that it was an attempt on the part of my father to resume matters connected
with the confusion about my mother and stepmother, occasioned by my
statement just before he left. I assumed that the sentence "Don't you
remember her" came from him and referred to one of the two just mentioned.
But this may as well refer to the Lucy just indicated, no matter who the
XLI.] 511
Appendix III.
communicator is, whom I now suppose to have been my cousin who exclaimed
this just as he left the "machine." Hence we may assume that my father
either begins a new subject with the announcement of his presence, con
nected with the McClellan family and suggested by what he sees and hears
going on while my cousin is communicating, or that he is attempting in a
confused manner to unravel the threads connected with my mother and step
mother. I could give a strained interpretation in favour of the latter
alternative, assuming certain mistakes, but it would not even then escape a
reference to the McClellans, as this connection is unmistakable in the
allusion to "John's wife" and the statement that she is still living. But
the accidental discovery that the name Sarah, a fact unknown to me, had a
direct pertinence for John McClellan's family opened the way to the first
interpretation as the more probable. This view is especially reinforced by
two facts. (1) The same grouping of names, with the exception of Maria,
at a sitting on February 7th, 1900, and not included in the present report.
(2) The indications on this occasion, and possibly in the frequent allusions of
the present record, of some solicitude for this John McClellan, which his
death about seven months later justified (Cf. Footnote, p. 471). Hence my
adoption of the note embodied in the detailed record (p. 444).
But all who are familiar with pseudo-mediumistic phenomena will remark
a very close resemblance to fishing and guessing in the names here given and
which seem to have the coincidental import which my note indicates or
suggests. I am far, of course, from regarding it as fishing of any kind, after
what I have seen in the Piper case, though I would treat it so in any record
not fulfilling the demands for evidence of personal identity in a better
manner than this. But while I cannot for a moment regard it as supplying
the slightest evidence of a spiritistic sort, I have described its possibilities
for the two reasons, first, that the fact shows it is not necessarily false, but
is possibly true in intention, and, second, to call attention to the resemblance,
in external features at least, to the phenomena of fishing and guessing. —
J. H. H.
Note 57.—There has dawned upon me, on re-reading the passage about the
injured foot, and remarking the capital letter "F " just before the hesitation
about brother Will's name, that instead of " injured foot" we ought to have
" injured leg." This would apply very distinctly to my brother Frank, whose
initial is here given. It is apparent from my question, as stated in the
previous note, that I was after the accident which caused the death of my
"uncle Charles," while nothing but "accident" was mentioned by my
father. Now it was an accident to his leg that was the occasion of my
brother Frank's loss of health. It was a heavy fall while engaged at
gymnastics in college. The injury was one that produced the same effect
in my brother's use of his leg that father's injury in the sixties produced
in his leg. I remember father's speaking of the resemblance before he
died. This he intimated in his letters to me. Hence it was the expres
sion : "He got it injured and so did I" that indicated to me the
possibilities of the case, on the assumption that there was some confusion of
memory, caused paitly by the conditions of communication (which cannot be
assumed in the evidential problem at first) and partly by the confusing nature
512 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
of my own question, as it was not on a railroad that my brother was injured.
But with all its possibilities the passage is not clear enough to be given the
slightest evidential value, and could only be explained on the spiritistic
theory after we had given sufficient evidence that confusion and mistakes of
this kind actually happened. There are unmistakable evidences of such
errors, whether they are so indefinite as this or not. Besides there are the
three facts in favor of the ]mssibilities mentioned :—(1) The initial of brother
Frank's name ; (2) The recognition of the resemblance to his own injury ;
and (3) The hesitation about the connection of the injury with my brother
Will.-J. H. H.
July 11th, 1900. —Since writing the above note I have recalled the fact
that my brother Frank was agent for Dr. Chase's Receipt Book ami Household
Physician, and that it was while walking on his journeys to sell the book
that he broke down with spinal irritation and symptoms of locomotor ataxy,
due to this overtaxing of his energies so soon after recovering from his fall in
the gymnasium. If we could connect the allusion of my cousin to an injured
foot of one of the Hyslop boys (pp. 427-8) with this reference to an intention
to be a doctor, we might, in spite of the confusion, imagine an attempt here
to speak of Frank's work, which was very suggestive of an itinerant doctor.
There is no excuse for this supposed possibility except the uniform confusion
of my cousin in his communications and the apparent evidence in these
experiments and others that association often seems to confuse and distort two
separate and similar events. I had asked for the accident to my uncle and it is
conceivable that reference to his injury may have been mixed up with the
thought of an injury to my brother's back and leg. That is I may get only
fragments of two separate events. I do not entertain the possibility of this
with any degree of confidence whatever. Nevertheless, I inquired of my
brother Frank if my cousin ever talked to him jokingly about his being a
doctor, and the reply is that on one occasion, just after his return from
college and after Frank had been canvassing for the book, my cousin
" chaffed " and joked him about being a doctor.—J. II. H.
iVofe 58.—There was so much possible pertinence in the statement here
put into the mouth of my stepmother that even at the expense of a little
personal flattery I inquired whether it was true or not. My stepmother
writes in answer to the question whether she ever used such language regard
ing me, as follows :—" I have many times made this remark to your father
when we were both severely tried to know what to do, ' If the children were
all like James and Frank we would have no trouble.' " The implied com
plaint against the others in this and father's language is not so severe in fact
as may appear, for it really refers to the consequences of neglecting to
respond to father's requests and needs as promptly as should have been the
case. But I know from both my correspondence and from my memory that
father's worry on such occasions was considerable, as he was himself always
prompt in business obligations and disliked delay and negligence. My step
mother's confirmation of the language here, then, shows how very pertinent
it is to the question of identity, and hence my justification for dwelling upon
such personal matters. —J. H. H.
XLI.] 513
Appendix III.
Note 59.—The allusion to "a cousin John" here in connection with my
uncle James McClellan has always puzzled me. I had a cousin John, but he
was in no way connected with the McClellans and there is not the slightest
indication here that I am dealing directly or indirectly with him. He died
when I was a very young child and I remember his death as having given me
my first shock in regard to that dread visitor. Nor is there any clear reason
to suppose that the person meant is the John McClellan in the earlier com
munication (pp. 431 and 438), as he was not a relative of either my family or
that of the communicator. I have ascertained one fact beyond my knowledge
at the time of the sitting and which reflects some light on the case and indicates
its possible connection with the John McClellan whom I know. I seem
to be communicating with my uncle James McClellan, as the messages make
clear. I learned from several parties in the West, members of the McClellan
family, that there was a sister Mary Ann and that she is not living. Now
it turns out that I knew her while at the university, but knew her only by her
married name, Mitchell. I knew nothing of her death so far as I am aware.
It may be that I once knew she was a sister of the McClellans. It is more
than probable that I did, and probable that I knew her name as Mary
Mitchell, but I am quite certain that I never heard the Ann part of it.—
J. H. H.
Note 60.—There is a matter of interest upon which I could not comment
at the time of the sittings because I was not certain of the fact that I
recalled when making my notes. I have ascertained by inquiry what I
thought was true ; namely, that my uncle James McClellan died of
pneumonia. This fact gives a singular interest to the message. I had in
mind my " uncle Charles," or " Clarke " as he is sometimes called, and hence
was trying to run down the incident that caused his death. But it is evident
from what was said about clearing up matters referring to James and John
McClellan, and from the statement that " Clarke" was mentioned for a mere
recollection, that father had my uncle James McClellan on his mind. Now,
the chief interest to be noted first is that this uncle James McClellan married
my father's sister, and so did also my "uncle Charles" or "Clarke" marry
another sister, the Eliza of earlier sittings. (See sittings of December 24th
and 26th, 1898.) Hence it is equally true of my uncle James McClellan that
he was related "only by marriage " to my father, and also truer of him than
my uncle " Charles " that he has been on that side " for some time." With
him evidently in mind the answer " pneumonia" to my question is perfectly
correct. The reference to the interruption by Charles, my brother, now
obtains a singular interest, as it is correct that he died with a fever.
(See sittings of December 23rd and 26th, 1898.) Now the allusion to
being " disturbed because of the accident " apparently denotes father's
discovery of the fact that I had my "uncle Charles" in mind, as is also
apparently indicated by the interruption of my brother Charles, the whole
passage at this point being part of the conversation carried on between
Rector and the several persons on the other side. They seem to suppose
that when I say " uncle Charles " I mean my brother, and that I am not clear
about my uncle. Hence, when brother Charles gets my inquiry here, know
ing that I have made it before in connection with the name "uncle Charles"
514 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
as I get it, he imagines that I am asking for his illness still, and inteiTupts
with his statement about a fever, as the supposed answer to my question.
My father, however, with a more correct suspicion of my misunderstanding,
and seeing that I have in mind my "uncle Charles " alludes to "the accident
that I (he) could not make clear." The passage thus becomes wonderfully
clear and interesting, if we can be allowed thus to reconstruct it consistently
with the facts, and with what we know of the sources of confusion in such
experiments, precisely as they occur in the telephone. —J. H. H.
Note 61.—Some interest attaches to this name of which I was not certain
at the time of the sitting. The name of my older sister who died when I
was two years old was Margaret Cornelia. She was named for an aunt
Cornelia, whom we called "aunt Cora." But the manner in which my sister
speaks of the person named indicates that it is more prolmbly this aunt to
whom she refers. This view appears to be suggested by the remark "what
father calls her," in connection with the evident difficulty of getting the
name right and the fact that my sister can hardly be supposed to remember
this aunt, who is still living, as my sister died when nearly three years old.
But she can be supposed to know my sister Margaret Cornelia, though not
until after her own death, assuming spiritism true of course, as my sister
Annie was born after the death of Margaret Cornelia. Moreover in the
next sentence my sister asks my mother to help her to give the name she had
just tried. Now my mother was always very affectionately attached to this
aunt Cora, her own sister, and was possibly present at the first sitting when
the name " Corrie " was mentioned (p. 310), in connection with other sisters
of both my father and mother. My father is confessedly present at this
sitting of June 1st, and the allusion to what he calls her is especially
pertinent, because, if 1 remember rightly, he always alluded to her as aunt
Cornelia, while my mother called her "Cora" and we children aunt Cora.
There would be no such a conjunction of facts to suppose that the allusion is
to my sister Margaret Cornelia, though she would probably have been called
" Cora " had she lived. Besides it would have been specially evidential, for
two reasons, to have mentioned this aunt Cornelia, both pertinent to my
mother.—J. H. H.
Note 62.—I have already made clear, in the previous note, the possible
meaning of the name "Cora," and need not repeat the matter to clear up
the note made after the sitting. But I have also acquired information that
throws light on the reference to "Jennie," and so clears up the whole
passage. "Jennie " is the name of the sister to the Lucy who is mentioned,
the latter being the wife of Robert McClellan, my cousin, for whom my
sister is acting as intermediary, and hence this "Jennie" is his sister-
in-law. I never knew her, or even knew of her existence. I knew
absolutely nothing of Lucy McClellan's connections. It will thus be quite
apparent what significance the linking of the two names means in connection
with the intermediation for my cousin Robert McClellan. It is pertinent also
for my sister to say that " father knows about her better than I do," referring
to cousin Lucy, for my sister never knew her at all, as my cousin's wife
came into the acquaintance of our family only after she married my cousin,
XLI.] 515
Appendix III.
which was long after my sister's death. The allusion to grandmother
would occasion difficulty to the passage if connected with my cousin Lucy in
the plain indication of the message taken in its strict context. But if the
two sentences are separated, and the phrase, " Lucy is there " be interpreted
to mean that she is on this side, that is, living, the case is perfectly clear, and
this was the interpretation that I gave it at the sitting, and see no reason to
change it, though it is undoubtedly equivocal, and if it were not for the
pertinence and clearness of the rest of the passage would be evidence of
some confusion. Two sisters-in-law might be mentioned.—J. H. H.
Note 63.—It will be remembered that in the note to the sitting of May
30th I was unable to attach any meaning to the name Peter. It was the
same at this sitting, but as the message purported to come from my cousin
Robert McClellan whose older sou was named George, I resolved to inquire
when in the West whether this George ever had a dog named Peter. When
the first reference to it occurred I was thinking of my brother George, as
the incident about the injured foot was calculated to keep my mind in
the direction of my own family. But I knew that it could have no possible
application to my brother in connection with Robert MoClellan, and so
treated the reference as a case of confusion which is so prevalent with this
communicator, and it turns out so with the name "Nanie," so far as can
now be ascertained. On the first chance, therefore, I asked George McClel-
lan's younger brother whether George ever had a dog by the name of Peter,
and received a negative answer. I did not explain why I asked it. I learned
afterward from my cousin that he laughed about my question to his
mother as being very funny, and repeated to her his denial of the fact, when
she contradicted him and said it was true. I saw her the next day and
siscertained that George did have a little ugly black dog named Peter when
he was between two and four years of age, and also that his father did not like
dogs because of his fear of hydrophobia. When I asked George himself some
days after the same question, he being a resident of another city, he said he
remembered only a dog by the name of Jack, which he had when he was five
or six years old. Thinking then that there might be some mistake about the
name on the part of the mother, I wrote to her to know if George's dog was
not named Jack instead of Peter, and I have the reply that both are correct,
that his first dog was named Peter, and was owned, by him between his
second and fourth years, and that his next was named Jack, and owned when
he was five and six.
It is worth adding in reference to possible telepathy from my mind to
account for this incident, that I never knew of the existence of this dog or of
any dog owned by this second cousin. I never knew this cousin at all until he
was between seven and ten years old, and saw him only a few times after that
until he was grown up. His father, Robert McClellan, lived some distance
from the old homestead, to which he moved some years after the death of
his father in 1876, my uncle James McClellan. (See sitting for June 6th.)
I never visited my cousin Robert McClellan until after I graduated from
college in 187V, and hence did not see him in the home he had before he
moved to his own old homo after his father's death. Consequently his son
was at least seven and perhaps ten years old before I knew anything about
2 L 2
516 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
him except his name and relationship to me. It is apparent, therefore, how
little I was likely to know about his pets at two and four years of age.—
J. H. H.
Note 64.—Inquiry in the West throws new light on this whole passage
beginning with the reference to my brother George, and changes its possible
interpretation considerably. It will be noticed that I said in my note on the
reference to my brother George that it was evidentially indefinite. It was
applicable to him in its incidents, but not in itn emotional tone, as the
difference with him about his social relations did not represent so decided
anxiety as is implied here. The objections were not moral at all, but were
tKised upon the probable life that my brother would lead as a farmer. But
what I learned regarding the incident of the fish, about which I knew
nothing until told it here at the sittings, shows that it is probable that my
father had my brother Robert in mind, and that he made, strange to say, a
mistake similar to the one made later in the guitar incident (p. 461). This is
indicated by the association of the name of my brother Frank with the same
and following incidents. I ascertain from him that the incident of the fish is
not quite right. It was not on a Sunday that it occurred. It seems that
Frank and Robert were promised one Friday that they could go fishing on
half the day Saturday if they finished their work. They did so, and went
the next day to enjoy their fishing, but did not return until late in the after-
n<mn and had to pay the penalty for taking time not given them. My
father believed that Saturday afternoon and evening should be employed,
as far as posible, in preparing for the religious duties of the Sabbath
or Sunday, and often spoke of this to us. At least my brother Frank
remembers no case of fishing on Sunday as is implied in the communi
cation. Now another mistake occurs here, which I could not detect at
the time because I did not know whether the reference to what appeared
to be Frank's social evenings was true or not. It will be seen that
I doubted it at the time, and hence I asked the question if Frank was meant
on purpose to determine this doubt. The affirmative answer made it
necessary to inquire of him personally to ascertain its truth. Now my
brother Frank says that neither father nor aunt ever complained of his place
of calling, as he had none at all. This confirms my conjecture at the time
that the reference would have been more pertinent if made to my brother
Robert. In fact it is so pertinently applicable to him and involves such
personal and private matters that it is impossible to state the case as the
evidential problem would require. It becomes apparent at this point that the
reference to George was a mistake for Robert. The whole emotional and
moral tone of it applies more distinctly to him than to the event that I had
in mind in reference to George, as the evident recurrence to the same facts
in the allusion again to spending the evenings and "temptation" shows.
The mistake of names disturbs the evidential value of the incidents very
much, but to me it would have such extraordinary pertinence if this mistake
had not been made, and if I could narrate the facts that show that
pertinence, that I have suffered myself to reconstruct it in the way I have
done simply to indicate how near the truth it comes. Corroborative of my
interpretation I have ascertained from two parties, besides my own memory,
XLI.] 517
Appendix III.
that my aunt and father did talk to my brother Robert about the very
incident so clearly intimated here.—J. H. H.
Note 65. —I find by inquiry that the chimney referred to here was not
taken down on the building of the kitchen, but was modified by means of an
iron cover, the chimney never having been restored to its original height
after the accident from the cyclone. A part of it was removed after
the cyclone. I had merely inferred its taking down from my memory
of its foreshortened appearance caused by the building of the new
kitchen and the fact that I find it is not so high as I have represented it
in my former note. The question, then, about its being taken down must
be interpreted either as containing a false implication or as referring to its
having been blown down by the cyclone, and hence to the same incident
implied by the allusion to what " happened " to it. But there is a good
lesson here against drawing inferences from one's memories, even though the
facts of the case consist with the inference. I find by inquiry also that we
had no aunt Lucy whatever. I was wholly mistaken regarding the name of
the aunt in mind.
Note 66.—I refused to comment on this reference to "Dr. Pierce " at the
time of the sitting because I thought possibly there might have been a
doctor by that name who attended my uncle at his death by the accident,
though I suspected that the name was a mistake for another doctor whom I
know very well. But I have been absent from this town for so many years
that it was possible for any number of unknown physicians to have installed
themselves there in the meantime. Hence before venturing to state my
conjecture regarding the possibility of this name I waited to inquire. I find
that no " Dr. Pierce " attended my uncle and that there is none such in that
place. But Dr. Harvey McClellan, who was indicated apparently at a
previous sitting and also at a later sitting, in both cases by my father (pp.
425, 491), was one of the attending physicians when my uncle's leg was ampu
tated. But no "Dr. Pierce " was present. This, of course, is not asserted or
implied, but in the sitting for June 5th my brother Charles indicates that he
was a friend of my uncle " Clarke " which is true, if the name be interpreted
as a mistake for the man I had in mind when reading the record over
afterward. The true name should have been Dr. J. P. Dice. It can
be seen by those who are familiar with these experiments how Rice and
Pierce might be mistaken by Rector for the name I have given. The letter
" P" becomes crowded into the attempt at "Dice" and the name becomes
" Pierce." This is of course conjecture, but it shows a possibility at least,
though it is not evidential. Cf. case of cat's name, Proceedings, Vol. VIII.,
p. 20. Also a similar mistake in case of a dog's name, Vol. VI., p. 620.
In both Pick was given for Dick.
Note 67.—I made personal inquiry of my brother Robert to know
whether his eyes have been giving him any trouble and received a negative
reply. He says that at no time have his eyes troubled him. I asked him the
question before he knew anything about my reasons for asking it, and I plied
him with various queries to see if there was even the trace of a truth in the
518 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
statement made by the communicator, and the straight answer was always
that neither at present nor in the 1Kist have his eyes troubled him in the
least. I had an impression at the time that the statement was true, though
I knew that it would apply more correctly to the next older brother, Will,
who has had very considerable trouble with his eyes for more than a year.
The difficulty began with what he represented to me as poisoning, and was a
source of some danger and alarm to him at one time. But they are now
better, though still troublesome. The allusion in the question " Are those
his children ? " would also have possible pertinence to brother Will, whose
two children father knew well enough before his death, and we could assume
conversation about them possibly. But as it is interpreted by Rector to
have been interruption we cannot attach any evidential importance to it.
On the spiritistic hypothesis the mistake involving a confusion of one brother
with the other would be natural enough for Charles to make, considering that
Robert was not born until seven months after Charles's death and that Will
was only two years old at the time. Besides, we may suppose that in the
confusion, incident to the interruption, Charles' thought may have passed
to my brother Will, and the latter's name escaped the machine. But these
facts, while they may explain the naturalness of the mistake, do not give it
evidential value.—J. H. H.
Note 68.—The statement of Rector, after f had said : " I do not under
stand," that it " was only interruption," may show that 1 have no right to
assume that the question : " Are those his children t " has the meaning that 1
had supposed, namely, a mistaken reference to the children of my brother
Robert, ft is much rather to be interpreted as an automatism due to a
remark of some one on the "other side" which gets written down before
Rector discovers its irrelevance to the communications from my brother
Charles. This automatism could occur in several ways which it is not
necessary to unravel here, as even its very existence has to be conjectured,
or accepted on the veracity of Rector, and I will not press the intelligibility
of the statement farther than to say that, on any theory, we can discover a
unity in the whole passage by treating the reference to children as an
irrelevance precisely as the statement about the interruption would most
naturally imply that it is. Had my brother Charles given the name of my
brother Will when he resumed his messages this view of the case would
have been much clearer to the general reader. (Jan. 20th, 1900.)—J. H. H.
Note 69.—I ascertained by personal inquiry in the West an incident that
makes my conjecture probably the right one, namely, that it was my cousin
Robert McClellan that was communicating. When I read the passage to his
sister, referred to in the sitting for May 31st as "aunt Nannie " and his
"sister," she remarked that there was no meaning in the mention of the
book of poems. She went on to say spontaneously, however, and without
any indications that she was mentioning a pertinent fact, that as she had
nursed him for several months, she had taken to him and read to him a book
called " Morning Thoughts." The end of each chapter is made of a rather
long poem.—J. H. H.
XLI.] 519
Appendix III.
Note 70.—Inquiry results in the confirmation of only one of the incidents
in answer to my request for facts that I did not know, and this is the name
of the orphan boy, Jerry, who had been taken into the family, and whom I do
not remember personally. My aunts remember none of them except this one,
and they recognise the pertinence of this very distinctly. There was the
special reason for mentioning this boy, that he was rather good-natured, but
dull to learn, and often got into trouble innocently by not knowing the risks
and dangers to which his curiosity exposed him. For instance, he got his
face badly burnt by powder in a foolish experiment with it ; had the skin
taken off his tongue by putting it against a frozen axe ; was in the habit of
going to sleep in church, and when awakened up would drop off into sleep
again while putting a clove into his mouth, etc. These and many other
incidents made him the subject of much amusement and story telling in the
family and elsewhere. He came into the family, according to my aunt's
statement, about the year 1855, but she does not remember when he left.
All that I can remember is that he enlisted in the Civil War. I recall hearing
this told, but do not remember it personally.
There is a peculiar interest and possibility connected with the shoe and
sock incident. It is consciously recognised that no one living can verify it.
My father says that only his mother and the Rogers girl can testify to it. I
have a strong recollection that I have heard my grand uncle (who died many
years ago and to whom no allusion is made in this record) mention the name
Rogers. He was the brother of my grandmother here mentioned. But as
my two aunts do not recall any one by the name of Rogers, I have to discount
my own memory in the case. But it is certainly interesting to find the name
thus connected with my father's mother and connected in my own memory
only with her brother. It is noteworthy, too, that this incident is omitted
from the list which I was admonished at Dr. Hodgson's sitting of July 6th
to inquire into carefully (p. 497).
It is not surprising that my aunts cannot remember these incidents,
assuming that they are even possibly true, because they are so small and
trivial that they might well be forgotten by them, though remembered by
father. My experiments on the "Identification of Personality" very fre
quently show the same difference of memory between the communicator and
the receiver of messages. (Of. references, p. 268.) But it will interest
the advocate of telepathy that the only incident which my aunts recall
is also one that I knew, namely, the name of " Jerry," the orphan
boy. But they could be expected to remember him, because his place
in their experience was too prominent to be forgotten as easily as the
other incidents. If they could have been verified they would have
had almost irresistible evidential force in the case. But the best that
can be said of them is that we do not know whether they are true or
false.—J. H. H.
[I may add, however, that by persistent inquiry I found that one of the
main factors in one of the incidents was true, and of course unknown to me.
By the time that I began to push my investigations into details my two
aunts, Nannie and Eliza, became violently hostile to answering my ques
tions and took every opportunity to deny what was not technically correct
all the way through. But incidentally it came out that my aunt Eliza did
520 [part
J. H. HysUrp, Ph.D.
walk home from a prayer meeting with a, certain young man, and was teased
about it by father. But his name was not Baker. (June 28th, liKX)). —
J. H. H.]
Note 71. —This communication direct from my uncle James McClellan,
who waH the father of my cousin Robert McClellan, and who has communi
cated so often, has very considerable interest, as much for the error of
memory among his brothers still living as for similar errors on the other
side.
The first incident is that in which he said that he always despised the
name Jim. This could not be taken from my memory for two reasons.
(1) I myself never despised the name, and (2) I never knew that my uncle
did so. As my former note indicates, I at once saw that the statement was
pertinent on the ground of what I did remember, namely, that we always
called him " uncle Mack." But I do not recall ever having the fact explained,
as we called one of his nephews, my cousin, also by the name " Mack." But
1 asked one of his daughters, the "Nannie " in the communications from my
cousin Robert McClellan, whether this statement about his despising the
name Jim was correct or not, and she did not know or could not remember.
When I read the passage to another daughter, she broke out laughing and
said that it was perfectly true, recalling the fact that her mother often
corrected the neighbours for calling him Jim, and would often say to the
family that she was afraid she would be called proud on account of her tastes.
The community was a pioneer one, and those who chose to adopt certain
refinements of civilisation had often to suffer the criticism of their neighbours,
who said people were " proud " if they showed any solicitude on matters of
this sort.
The correction of the mistake in the name "cousin John" is very
interesting, as it was purely voluntary on the part of the persons on the side
of the communications. Of course the letter from the son of this John
McClellan had put me in knowledge of the fact that he was still living, and
the circumstance becomes amenable to telepathy, though the dramatic play
of personality involved is a difficulty in the way of the view, especially the
statement that I must remember his brother John if I was James, as my
uncle, who was rather a favourite of mine, died while I was at college in the
town where his brother .John McClellan lived, as indicated before. The
manner too, in which some confusion occurs between the names of his
brother John and his father John is an interesting fact, though it is quickly
cleared, and the circumstance represents a fact wholly beyond my knowledge,
as I never knew his father personally or by name, so far as I can remember.
The correction of the statement that this brother was in the war is also
an incident of some importance. It turns out to be true that the brother was
never in any war, and the confusion between the two names is still apparent
in the attempt to communicate, though immediately corrected, and the
reference made to his father as the one who was in the war, which I find
also to have been incorrect.
The inquiries that led to the discovery that this statement about my uncle's
father having been in the war is false are detailed in Note W4 p. 535 with
the evidence of who was probably meant. The language here clearly refers to
XLI.] 521
Appendix III.
my uncle's father. But there was evidently some confusion in the matter,
possibly precipitated by.my statement that I did not remember my uncle's
father. Compare with this also the summary (p. 111). In any case, how
ever, the incidents of the war and lost finger are not true of him, but
of another John McClellan, who was not a relative of my uncle at
all, and who was probably the person meant in the sitting of May
31st (p. 431). But in regard to the statement that this John McClellan
" had a brother David who had a sunstroke," John McClellan, Dr. Harvey
McClellan, William McClellan, sons, and William McClellan, nephew, said
that he had no brother by this name. But in order to see if there was
anything near the truth in the statement, I asked if he had any relative
by that name, and was answered in the negative by all except John
McClellan, the son, who said that he had a brother-in-law by the name of
David Elder. My aunt Nannie also knew of this David Elder. The fact
gave me confidence in the clue. But none of the McClellans remembered
whether this David Elder had a sunstroke or not. Through one of them,
Dr. Harvey McClellan, I was directed to address an inquiry to the
daughter of David Elder, and it turned out that she was not living,
the fact being unknown to her cousin who gave me the address ! True,
she lived in another county, but she had died two years before, as I
learned from her daughter, and the fact, we should suppose, ought to have
been known to her cousin. Through this daughter I obtained some further
information embodied in Note 72.
It is pertinent to see the name of "Nancy" given in this connection,
because this is the name of my uncle James McClellau's mother, virgin
name Nancy Elder, sister of the David Elder just indicated. This
I did not know, and assumed that he was intending to refer to my
aunt Nannie, his sister-in-law. There is, however, nothing but its con
nection and the way it is written to indicate that the reference should be
taken as made to his mother. Earlier in life we had called aunt Nannie
by the name of aunt Nancy, but for thirty years or more only in the form
that it invariably appears in these communications. My uncle most pro
bably called my aunt by the name of Nancy, so that if we assume, as I think
there is no reason to do, that he was referring to my aunt Nannie we should
have an interesting variation from the usage in these sittings which would
be against the telepathic, and in favour of the spiritistic theory. We could
escape its cogency for this view only by assigning telepathy an associative
power and access to the connections in memory equal to its assumed acquisi
tive capacity at the same time, a view which is not supported by the
mistakes and confusions in this record. Apparently, however, the evidence
is that my uncle was referring te the name of his mother, which was Nancy,
and I understand that she was always called so As I did not know the
name of my uncle's mother the difficulty with telepithy still remains con
siderable on this interpretation of his reference. —J. H. H.
Nute 72.—September 17th, 1899. After some months' correspondence
and much difficulty I have been able to obtain further information of the
sunstroke incident. The granddaughter of this David Elder wrote to her
uncles asking them whether their father ever had a sunstroke, or had been
522 [part
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
overcome with the heat, and whether it had affected him afterward, if he had
such a stroke. The answer came from one of them that he thought that his
father had been overcome with heat about the close of the war (1865), but
that it did not affect him in after years. The other, the one with whom the
father had lived, said that his father "never had a sunstroke, nor was he
very much affected by the heat of it." I then wrote to the first of these two
for particulars, and the reply was dictated to his son as follows :—
Washington, Iowa, September 4th, 1899.
Dear Sir,—My father asks me to say in response to the attached (my
inquiry) that in 1865 or '66 or '67 or '68, his father to slightly overheated,
but not, according to his remembrance, seriously so. There were n0 further
particulars that he can give.—Yours respectfully,
Jas. H. Hyslop, New York City. °RV1LLE Ei.deE-
To the other brother who had denied the occurrence I wrote what his
brother had said in the affirmative, and he repeats, in reply, that he has n0
recollection of it, but admits that it is possible, though he insists, no doubt
correctly enough, that it could not have been serious. The case thus stands
rather in favor of the statement at the sitting, though it was evidently not
apparently so serious as the natural interpretation of the language in the
communication would imply. But when we consider that even a light stroke
of this kind carries with it prolonged consequences we need not be surprised
that there should he an apparent discrepancy between the description of the
-sons and that of my uncle about the person concerned. My father had a
light sunstroke in or about 1867, and all his life afterward had to be careful
about working in the sun. —J. H. H.
[Further inquiry of persons who have been slightly overcome with heat
and of physicians confirms the statement that, subjects of sunstroke, no
matter how light, never recover from the effects of it (January 20th, liKX)).
-J. H. H.]
Note 73.—This incident about the minerals cannot be verified by either of
the aunts, his sisters. The word "minerals" is not one that would indicate
any of the intellectual or other interest that my father ever had within my
recollection. He knew nothing about geology, and cared nothing about
minerals or jewelry of any sort that I ever knew. He may at one time
have had some Indian relics which might ]kiss here for " minerals," but I
never knew of his possessing anything of this kind. I merely knew that he
did exhibit some interest in such relics, but I know of n0 collection of them in
his possession. He used to tell us a great deal about Indian history in
Ohio, and especially about Indian battles. —J. H. H.
[Since writing the preceding note I recalled the fact that father did have
a small collection of Indian relics, consisting of an Indian hatchet or two, a
mortar and pestle, another whose purpose I have forgotten, and a large
number of flint arrows. He used to find these on the farm when ploughing
or at work in the fields, and he often spoke of their camping ground as pro
bably near a certain spring on our neighbour's place, that of the Samuel
Cooper mentioned in this record. To test my memory of this collection
I asked his sister, my aunt Nannie, yesterday (September 23rd, 1899)
XLi.] Appendix III. 523
♦
if she remembered whether father ever took an interest in Indian relics,
and had a collection of them. She replied to both queries in the affirmative,
but she could recall only the arrows and the hatchet in it. She had no
recollection of the others. She said that he had quite an interest in such
things as a young man, though he showed none of the enthusiasm or
disposition of the collector.—J. H. H.]
Note'i.—The question about the name of " that Dr." is equivocal. If
there was any consciousness of the mistake in regard to Dr. Dice, it might
be interpreted as a reference to him, but as it was my uncle that was trying
to give this name I can hardly assume that this was meant by my father. The
second possibility is that of Dr. Harvey McClellan, but as this name was
suspected once before, and mentioned once afterward (pp. 425, 491) or presum
ably so in the form of " Henry McClellan," the communicator would hardly
have spoken here as he did. In fact, reading this statement in connection
with the attempt to complete the reference to "a doctor who had peculiar
religious views " suggested that possibly my interpretation of that passage
as referring to Dr. Harvey McClellan might be wrong. Hence when
reading the sittings over about two weeks after their occurrence, I
recalled another physician of father's acquaintance who would admirably
tit the facts. He was a dentist, and was always called "Doctor" by
father and the family. He was of the Unitarian profession, or something
like this, and father had many conversations with him on the subject of
religion, and "peculiar" (better "strange") was the term that father would
naturally use to describe them. Father was quite a friend of this man, in
spite of his heterodoxy. But he is not clearly enough indicated to
suppose certainly that he was meant. Hence I mention him only to modify
the interpretation of the former incident.
This persistent reference to the books sent me the year before he died is
an interesting incident. I have denied its truth all along, and have still to
deny it, so far as my recollection goes. When I said to him at the sitting
that ] had them in my library, I meant to quiet his mind about it while I
had in view the books of his which I took and kept after his death. I had
in mind, too, what was said at an earlier sitting (December 27th, p. 335). But
the reference to " a box containing two or more books " and sent me "before I
(he) became so ill," has an interest as being nearly right. I remembered his
sending me a box some time before his illness, and containing something
very different from books, and hence I could only interpret this as false.
But I read over his correspondence with me and find that in a letter of
December 22nd, 1892, he mentions sending me a box containing some things
for us, and mentions butter. I do not remember whether this box had any
other contents or not. But in a letter of November 20th, 1893, he mentions
his and mother's purpose to send us a box of various things, but it was not
realised for some time, as the letter for January 8th, 1894, mentions sending
it and apologises for the delay. The box contained two rolls of butter, two
dressed chickens and some nuts. But I do not remember any books in it ;
in fact, am quite confident that none such were sent me at that time. The
date shows, however, that it was more than a year before his death, a mistake
that is not so bad when we reflect that I made the same mistake until the
524 [part
J. H. Hyshrp, Ph.D.
reading of the letters corrected it. It is barely possible that he may have
sent me some books to read and which were returned. Careful inquiry,
however, does not assure anything definite about this possibility.
Previous notes show that the incidents about the reading of the paper
and the glasses troubling his eyes are correct, except that the cause of the
trouble in the eyes was probably not his glasses, but the gradual breaking up
of his system, though my father thought at the time that it was his glasses.
—J. H. H.
Note 75.—I could never feel satisfied with the absurd conception indi
cated in my note of June 7th (p. 476), which had assumed the possibility of
continued weakness after death in order to make conceivable the possible
amount of truth in the reference to the number 25, or 23, as Mrs. P. went
into the trance. But it occurred to me afterwards that this message might
have been much more fragmentary than it seems. Assuming then that my
father did not communicate all that he intended, and that he was trying to
say something about the twenty-third psalm (hymn), and about his inability
to sing because he did not have any teeth, we should have a conception
that does not involve the difficulties attaching to my original interpretation.
It would be specially pertinent to mention this psalm for two reasons.
First, my mother recited it in a clear voice on her death-bed after we
thought she had become unconscious. Secondly, my father often tried to
impress the sentiment of this psalm upon our minds by reminding us of its
place among the last words of our mother, and by frequently singing it at
family worship. This new interpretation does not involve the assumption
of continued physical weakness and defects after death, as my previous note
represents it, and hence the possible meaning of these fragments appears
without the incredible conception which was stated, not because it was
believed or believable, but because it served as an aid to the explanation of
the possible pertinence of Mrs. Piper's statements. There is nothing
evidential in the message, as it does not clearly state what I have conjec
tured, but the reconstruction serves to show how near to a significant truth
a lot of confusion and absurdity can be.—J. H. H.
Note 7ti. —Inquiry of my aunt here mentioned fails to verify the fact.
The doubt expressed by the communicator himself led me to inquire also of
the other aunt, who also does not remember the incident. If it were not for
the communicator's own doubt about the person who helped him out of his
difficulty we could very safely say that it is false, because I find by inquiry
that my aunt Eliza is thirteen years younger than my father, and hence was
not born at the time indicated in the incident. It would be imite possible
for my aunt Nannie to have been the witness of this little escapade, as she
was only eight years father's junior, but we could hardly expect her to
remember such an incident.—J. H. H.
Note 77.—It might have been stated here in the previous note that my
assumption of the possible meaning of the name "Nannie" for my step
mother is decidedly confirmed by this phrase "my own mother Nannie."
For as both were called Margaret, we can suppose that the phrase is a
XLI.] 525
Appendix III.
fragment of what was said explaining that his own mother's name was the
same as " Maggie's " which was what he always called my stepmother. This
we have seen appeared as " Nannie," which, be it noted, as I have elsewhere
explained (p. 342), is probably a mistake of Rector's, or possibly of
the "machine" for what was definitely thought by my father as Maggie
ifif. pp. 69, 365). —J. H. H.
Note 78.—The incidents about the " Cooper School " and father's visit to
me which I have explained in a previous note (See Notes 3f), p. 499, and 53,
p. 507) show clearly enough that the communicator was possibly right in thus
alluding to this trip as having been mentioned before. But my ignorance
of the "Cooper School" incident prevented any recognition of this cor
rectness at the time.
On examination of the two sets of sittings, however, mine and Dr.
Hodgson's, I find nothing that justifies assurance about the reference to this
Western trip "just before going out West." But the association of the fact
with the allusion to my stepmother, though suggestible by my question,
obtains such pertinence as it has from the spontaneous intimation that the
trip had been mentioned before. The trip was taken for the purpose of look
ing up a place to which to move, but the decision was in favour of another
place than that of the original intention.
There is, however, too much confusion in the present communications,
and too much equivocation in the allusion to a journey in connection with the
Cooper incident (p. 421) for me to suppose anything evidential in the present
references. But I may explain the confusion and indicate two or three
interesting psychological features of the passage.
I had been the source of the confusion in the first place by not making it
clear that I was asking for my stepmoUier instead of my mother. There
would be no apparent reason to my father for my asking about a trip in such
close connection with the reference to the cap, since the cap was made in
1895, and the trip with my stepmother was taken in 1884. But as my father
presumably alluded to a trip with my own mother at the sitting of Dr.
Hodgson on February 7th (p. 371) it was natural for his mind to recur to
that on the present occasion, as such a trip had a direct association with
myself for him. My special object here, to call out incidents that I did not
know, was not detected, and the communicator's mind would naturally be
diverted by this apparently abrupt change of subject, which in fact would
not appear to him to be a change at all if I was referring to my mother,
whose identity enters into the confusion, as the communications show. It is
strongly corroborative of the thought unity in the case, in spite of its con
fusion, and of my conjecture that my father had the trip with my own mother
in mind, to see the name Surah mentioned immediately after the allusion to
the maker of the cap. For my aunt Sarah was with us, my mother, my
father, my sister Annie, and myself, on the trip in 1861, a fact wholly
forgotten by me at the time of the sitting, and only discovered accidentally
in a conversation with this aunt afterward. The recognition a little later
(p. 481) that this was the trip intended confirms my supposition, though its
force is made dubious by my statement just previous. So also is the recog
nition of the trip with my stepmother, though it would possess much
52G [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
pertinence if I could feel assured that the pronoun " we " and the allusion
to a journey in connection with the Cooper incident (p. 421) referred to my
stepmother.—J. H. H.
Note 79.—When I made this answer to father's statement about the cap
in connection with the name of aunt Nannie I interpreted it to be an answer
to my question about it a little earlier, but on careful examination I see
that it is nothing of the kind, but is an attempt to clear up the confusion
of my stepmother's name with that of my aunt, about which there was so
much difficulty, as the sitting shows. The next note will show this view
of the case still more clearly, I think.—J. H. H.
Note 80.—From a statement (p. 491) at the last sitting (June 8th) I
at first thought that this "H . . . HAR H . . " might possibly
have been one of the attempts to spell out the name of Harper Crawford
there mentioned. But more careful examination shows that this is not the
most probable interpretation. It is more likely that he was trying to give
the name of my stepmother Margaret. Compare Notes 82 and 8)i. This is
evidenced by the mention of his mother, whose name was Margaret (see
above), and his sister, with whose name he had confused that of my step
mother. The " No, go on," is probably an interruption of Rector's to have
father go on with his explanation of the confusion and to stop the reference
to "HAR." But it was a wonderful piece of pertinent reference to say'
that he thought of his mother and sister, in connection with an attempt to
clear up the confusion of my aunt's name with that of my stepmother,
as the statement of facts just above clearly indicates.
It becomes clear also that my supposition in the answer to his statement
about the cap and thinking it over when I mentioned aunt Nannie was a
misunderstanding on my part, representing confusion on my side while his
accusation that I misunderstood him is justified by the facts, and hence the
clearness was on his side. The reference to "our visit to her also" is
wonderfully pertinent here, because, though it was in 1876 on his return
from the Centennial at Philadelphia, I had earlier in the sitting referred
to a trip out West with her, in asking for my stepmother's name, and still
earlier had indicated that her name was confused with that of my aunt.
There is a distinct consciousness of this confusion here in the reference to
the cap and my aunt's name. It was therefore a perfectly correct piece of
association for him to run over the trip that was connected with the visit to
my aunt. This fact alone is almost enough to prove identity, in spite of the
confusion, and perhaps one might almost say on account of it.
I find also by inquiry that there is no Harriet among the relatives as my
note after the sitting supposes there was. Hence, all that was supposed in
reference to that name has to be withdrawn. Besides, no Harriet was
visited. The whole passage becomes clear enough in the light of the
previous explanation, and the fact just learned from my stepmother that
father and she visited my aunt at the time I have mentioned, 1876. —J. H. H.
Note 81.—There is an extraordinary interest in the statements here about
the visit to the boys and the arrangement to go out West to live. I may have
known of these visits, but I did not recall them and had to verify them by
XLI.] 527
Appendix III.
inquiry, and found that on his return home from this Western trip he did
visit brother George with mother. It appears, however, to be a statement
made to Rector, and not necessarily to me, as the " visit te the boys " must
include me, if we take the plural into account, because my brother Will was
on the home farm at that time, and it would hardly be proper to say that the
return thither to him was a "visit" to him. This is clearly recognised in
the statement, " we saw George and Will," etc. But on this return he did
have a long consultation with brother Will regarding his willingness to take
the farm if he (father) decided to leave. But the most pertinent thing about
the statement is that he " arranged to go out there to live," as this is exactly
what he did, the time relation being precisely correct here.
The chief interest of this, however, is the relation of it to the theory of
telepathy. If it is to be accounted for on that hypothesis, it involves a
distinction by Mrs. Piper's subliminal between personal knowledge and
experience in connection with my father and what I merely knew by report
and thoughts about the matter. I merely knew most of these things by
correspondence and inference and not as personal experience, so that the
connection with my father is merely a thought connection. Now if telepathy
is to account for it, why does that agency not also obtain abundance of other
thoughts with the same kind of association ? Why does it so uniformly limit
itself to the incidents in mine or others' memory that represent the
personal unity of my father's consciousness and memory at the same time ?
This is a tremendous capacity to assume, especially when we note its infalli
bility in that respect and such decided fallibility in selecting the relevant
facts after so correctly discriminating them from the irrelevant. For there
is not one case that I have observed in the whole seventeen sittings which
can represent a thought alone about my father. The associative unity
and synthesis is wholly that of a personality on the other side, and not
that of telepathic acquisition from my memory, unless we suppose an
infallible distinction between mere thoughts associated with my father and
personal experiences so associated, to say nothing of the large number of
facts that I did not know at all.—J. H. H.
Note 82.—As I compare different passages in which this " Har" occurs it
seeins more probable that it is a mistake for "Margaret." This appears
almost evident, if not conclusive, in the sitting for June 8th (p. 491),
where the "Har . . . MARGARET" occur together though it is probable
that another Margaret, my deceased aunt, is intended in the latter case. It
would suit this case to interpret it so because the allusion to the trip with
this person is so pertinent to her, my stepmother, especially when taken in
connection with my question regarding the same, and the remark immedi
ately afterward that he would try and tell me exactly what I wanted.—
J. H. H.
Note 83.—The chief interest in this passage is the knowledge of Rector,
as later statements would indicate, regarding the relation to me of the
parties named. It is perfectly correct, and as realistic as could be imagined.
It is not in the least like the passive acquisition of telepathy, if our concep
tion of that process is correct. The indication that there is a Nannie in the
528 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
binly to be distinguished from my mother who is dead, and the reason
assigned for our confusion is a fine piece of independent intelligence, no
matter whether we suppose the allusion to be to my Aunt Nannie or to my
stepmother with the continued use of the erroneous name.—J. H. H.
Note 84.—I have made diligent inquiry about this alleged experience of my
uncle "Clarke," and cannot verify it. His wife and children cannot confirm
it. Either they were not told it or they do not recognise in the incident as
narrated here anything to recall what they may have been told. All of them,
however, state that many years ago he had a waking vision of a chariot and
two ways, the chariot being full of flaming swords and passing through a
scene of great carnage. But as he had taken a dose of morphine it was
treated as the effect of this, except that my uncle often spoke of it as having had
a symbolic influence on his religious life. I see no reason for giving it such
a meaning or any meaning except the effects of the morphine. It certainly
does not tit the incident as here told by my father, so that we have some
thing to deal with that is either false or unveritiable. It would be a most
interesting fact if verifiable, as it would afford both a means of identification
and an indication of something beyond telepathy. There is an interesting
circumstance, however, that may explain why I could not verify it. The
statement that he, my uncle, saw the light and spoke of it before he came
here, though it seems to imply that it had been mentioned before he died,
does not absolutely require this interpretation, as it may mean only that ho
had spoken of it before he came to communicate "here." He had died some
two months or more before I had my sittings. The evidence for this interpre
tation of the sentence is the fact that in the same pissage father very care
fully distinguishes between the interval between death and the time and
place of communications, and the interval between the alleged conversation
and the time of coming to the communications. This is what is meant by
the change to the spiritistic lingo which I noticed. If then it be true that
there is no reason to suppose the ex]ierience had been told to any one, we can
hardly assume it to have necessarily been in the possession of those of whom
I had to inquire. The statement later that I must "remember the facts
very well" does not necessarily imply that I knew the facts of the experience,
but may mean only that I must remember the facts which father supposed
that he had told before he was " too far off" to complete the story. Con
sequently, the experience might have been one that occurred to him after
the accident by which he lost his life, and when he was in a condition that
might either prevent the telling of it or offer no opportunity to tell it. I
have no necessary reason, therefore, to suppose that the incident would be
verifiable in any case.—J. H. H.
Note 85. —This is an incident about which I knew nothing, and, consider
ing that the aunt of whom it is told is twenty years older than I am, I could
not be expected to know it. But I asked my aunt Nannie, who is eight
years older than the aunt Eliza of whom it is told, and she emphatically
denied the truth of the incident. But this aunt Eliza herself told me
that she was nicknamed "Lizzie" when a child, and that afterward the
XLI.] o29
Appendix III.
family began calling her Eliza, by which name I always knew her, and I
never heard any mention of what my aunt Nannie herself could not
remember. —J. H. H.
Note 86. —This passage apparently indicates a connection between the
attempts with "Har" and the name "Margaret." But there is some
confessed confusion in it, and possibly no effort would suffice to unravel it,
especially as the name Jennie occurs out of place in this instance, unless we
suppose that the Margaret in this case is not meant for my mother at all,
but for my aunt, the second wife of my uncle James McClellan, who
communicated before. In this case the Jennie could have the significance
already given it, as the sister of her stepson's wife. But the importance of
the passage is its connection of "HAR "with "MARGARET." It shows
what the probable meaning of " HAR " in previous messages (pp. 481, 482),
though it is probable that the person meant is not the same.—J. H. H.
Note 87.—This incident about the organ turns out to be perhaps as
remarkable as any in the whole series of sittings. I knew nothing about the
fact. The church to which allusion is made is the First United Presbyterian
Church in the town of father's old home, as indicated by my question, and
the Harper Crawford, whom I mentioned just to start father in the direction
of memories in connection with this old friend, belonged to this church. I
learned from my aunt Nannie (about June 25th, 1899), who keeps in close
communication with her sister, that an organ had been put into this church
about two months previously, the denomination being opposed to instru
mental worship until recent changes in its constitution permitted the
introduction of it in churches desiring it. I learned also from her that
it was the introduction of the organ into this church (Sunday-school)
that was the reason why my uncle "Clarke" and his wife left this
congregation and went to the second U.P. Church. I probably knew
that they had left it, but if I did know it I had wholly forgotten it. The
only chance I had to know it was at the time of my father's death when I
was at his old home, but I recall nothing said or done at the time to give me
any information on the point. On further inquiry I learned that the
organ had been introduced into the Sunday-school of this church two or
three years before my uncle's death, but not into the regular services until
two months previous to the time of my last sittings. Now as an indication
of my ignorance regarding the facts it is interesting to know that soon
after my first series of sittings I wrote to my aunt, the wife of this uncle,
the aunt Eliza of these records, and asked her to send me some questions
which were to concern facts in the lives of my father and herself, and my
uncle and herself, that I did not know. I had her seal the questions in an
envelope which I was not to open until at the sittings. I had this envelope
with me in my pocket, which I had kept there after opening it in Boston for
use at one of the sittings. I kept it there very carefully so that no one
should see it. One of the two questions in it was : " Why did your uncle
and I leave the First Church?" I had, of course, seen the question, but I
did not have the slightest conception of what it was expected to elicit. But
I did not see the suitable occasion to present the question. The information,
2 M
530 [PAKT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
however, which my aunt Nannie gave me about the introduction of the organ
into this church turned out to be the proper answer to this question which
was never put, and whose answer I did not know.
The most remarkable part of it, however, is the fact that I learned
casually in a conversation with my sister and stepmother when narrating the
incidents here associated with the name of Harper Crawford. Without the
slightest suspicion of the pertinence of the circumstance, my stepmother
remarked that Harper Crawford, with his family, was the only person beside
my uncle "Clarke" and family who left this church on account of the
introduction of the organ. I learned from my aunt later that one other
person in the congregation had left on account of it, but this is of no
importance except to make the story correct, and to show the limited number
of persons involved in the situation. I, of course, knew nothing of this
Harper Crawford's action, as I have only spoken to him a few times, when
on visits to my old home, in the last twenty years, and have had no com
munications at all either with him or about him in all that time. I might
very well have gotten some hint of the admission of the organ into the
Church Sunday School at the time of my father's death, if it was in then,
because I stayed for ten days at my " uncle Clarke's" house. But we were
so out of sympathy on religious questions that we never talked about them
in any shape, and so I was ignorant, at least so far as my memory serves me,
of both the fact of the introduction of the organ and its connection with his
and my aunt's leaving the church.
Now the interesting feature of the incident is that the statement about
the organ should be started by my reference to Harper Crawford and given
almost instantly, and then that I should find that there was a real connection
beyond my knowledge between the two facts and also with my uncle who
had so recently died. It is probable that father did not know the fact of the
introduction of the organ before his death. If he did not, his knowledge of
it would have to come from this uncle who was one of the parties affected.
But considering my ignorance of the main facts and any process whatsoever
of acquiring them, the unity of consciousness involved in this incident
appears to transcend any possibility of telepathy whatever, short of infinity
in the capacities of Mrs. Piper's brain.—J. H. H.
[Since writing the foregoing I have just discovered one of father's letters
misplaced from the package already examined, and dated June 10th, 1896,
two months and a-half before his death. It states the fact that this Harper
Crawford and my uncle " Clarke " had left this church, but does not give the
reason. Hence, contrary to my supposition, father probably did know all that
is implied here and did not have to get it from my uncle after his death
except the putting of the organ into the regular services of worship.
(September 17th, 1899.)—J. H. H.]
[I made special inquiries for an official statement from the Secretary of the
Session in the church here concerned regarding the exact time that the organ
was decided upon and put in. I give the questions and answers as originally
presented. The answers I put in quotations.
1. At what date did the Session decide by vote to introduce an organ into
the Sunday School ? Ant. : " April 2nd, 1895."
2. At what date was the organ put in ! (No answer to this question.)
XLI.] 531
Appendix HI.
3. At what date did the Session decide by vote to put the organ into the
regular services 1 Ans : " July 5th, 1898."
4. On what date was it put in for this purpose ? Ans. : " May 4th, 1899."
5. When did Mr. James B. Carruthers and Mr. Harper Crawford ask and
obtain their certificate of departure from the church. Ant. ; " June 4th,
1895."
This statement makes it apparent that the organ was put into the main
pirt of the church and its services after the death of my uncle Carruthers,
though the official decision for it was six months before his decease. But, as
shown both by my father's letter mentioned above, and this official statement,
the organ was put into the Sunday School before this, and the two men
had left the church long before the decision to put it into the main part of
the service. Consequently, the allusion of my father to the case may not
refer to anything learned from my uncle since his death, but to a matter of
common knowledge before either of them died. Father's letter to me makes
this clear, though it gives no hint of the cause for the abandonment of the
church by the two men mentioned.i
If we are to apply telepathy to this incident it performs the extraordinary
trick of completing the story of my father's letter in 18%, either by selecting
from my subliminal self information absolutely forgotten by me and using
it as a means to obtain rapport with other minds, or by reaching out into the
world at large and obtaining the desired information in that way alone.
(October 29th, 1899.)—J. H. H.]
Note 88.—This passage beginning with the reference to my brother
George is as pertinent and extraordinary conversation as could be imagined.
There is not an irrelevance in it. Every statement is charged with meaning
that the members of the family know too well. The underscoring suggests
facts and pertinent emotional tone that only myself and members of the
family can appreciate. It was the negligence of my brother in matters of
business letters that was the cause of a great deal of friction and unpleasant
correspondence and worry both by father and myself. The underscoring
shows the recognition of this fact. All the way through the connection and
clearness are as perfect as an3' conversation between two living persons and
superior to much that goes on over the telephone.—J. H. H.
Note 89.—I ascertained in the West, rather accidentally while alluding to
the pertinence of this reference to my brothers, a fact that gives additional
significance to the mention of my brother George in this connection. My
stepmother remarked that George was named originally among the executors
iu father's will which was drawn in 1887, and that afterwards his name was
taken off because of dissatisfaction with his business methods, and another
named in his place. The reader can determine for himself the unity of
consciousness involved in the incident, as it contains personal features
which cannot be any more clearly indicated. —J. H. H.
i At a sitting on February 5th, WOO, which is not included in this record, my
father spontaneously mentions that he had heard of the organ incident after his,
.death.—J. H. H.
2 M 2
5,32 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Note 90. —Inquiry develops the fact that both my opinions expressed in
the original note (p. 493) were correct, and that the incident about the fence
related to the farm. My brother and stepmother say that he did not concern
himself about the fence around the house out West, and that he was not
impressed with the plan to remove it, though not objecting seriously to it.
But they say that he did think and talk very much about putting a wire
fence on the old homestead farm.
The tax incident also turns out correct, though my stepmother could not
recall it. But I had a resource in this instance that I cannot always com
mand for emergencies of this sort. I read father's letters to me from 1892
to the time of his death in 1896. In a letter of July 9th, 1892, he states his
situation regarding his taxes, and speaks very pathetically about it, and any
one who ever knew how father felt about not being able to pay his taxes
would appreciate thoroughly from his language in this letter what his state of
mind was and the readiness with which the incident is recalled here beyond
the grave. He says in it that they were due and would have to go on the
delinquent list in fifteen days if he could not gut the money to pay them,
as the income from the farm had not supplied him with the necessary means
for it, and he so despised borrowing money for any purpose, especially for
paying taxes. He had asked one of my brothers to pay them, because
I had frequently supplied him with funds between November. 1891, and
March. 1892, and he would not ask me for more. My brother failed
to pay them at the time they were due, and father wrote me in this
letter that they would have to go unpaid and be settled after he was
gone, but asked me to advise him what to do and to write this
brother about the matter. My recollection is that I did write an urgent
letter to my brother about it, but as my own letters to father have been
destroyed and my brother does not recall my having done so, the fact
cannot be proved more clearly. At any rate, the next letter from father,
of August 1st, 1892, states that this brother had promised to pay the taxes,
and I learned from my brother personally this summer that he had once paid
father's taxes. Since seeing him he has examined his books and writes
me that he finds "that in March, 1893, I (he) paid father's tax which was
overdue."
The expression "actively helped" in describing the part I played in the
embarrassment seems thus to have been exactly what I did without paying
the taxes themselves. I had supposed at the sitting that it meant I had also
paid them, but it seems that the communicator was drawing a distinction
between what he found I had done after his death and what I had done in
1892. so that we have in the incident a very pretty case of refined accuracy
in the message which is much more like independent intelligence than
anything we know of in telepathy.—J. H. H.
Niile 91.—My cousin, wife of this Robert McClellan, confirms my state
ment about father's excitement regarding this campaign, and adds a feature
which makes the statement here still more pertinent, and which I did not
know. I interpreted it to mean excitement with reference to the political
situation in general, but it seems that, while this is true, father showed
special excitement in his talk, or attempt to talk in a whisper, to my cousin
XLT.] Appendix III. 533
Robert. His wife, the Lucy of these records, was present at the time, and
says that father became so excited and overstrained himself so to talk, that
they had to stop him and leave to avoid temptation for him, fearing that he
Would have a spasm of the larynx.—J. H. H.
Note. 92.—After what I have said about father's excitement in the previous
note the pertinence of the statement here about "the talk with R. about the
President " is apparent without comment. It is to be remarked also that
it is not a case of suggestion from me, as my question about the walking
stick was not calculated in any respect to suggest any such remark from
any one except a consciousness to which the unity of such experiences
belonged.
Very considerable interest attaches to the attempt to answer my question
regarding the ''gold bug" on the cane, which I did not suggest, asking
merely what it was. The additional notes which I made to the sitting
(February 22nd, Notes 35 and 36, p. 415) in which the spontaneous reference
to a cane was made will explain much of the pertinence of this passage.
But some features of the case will have to be repeated here in order to
indicate the significance of the communication. I stated in that note that
I did not know, or had completely forgotten about the stick that was
evidently in the communicator's mind, and that I had in mind, as here, the
stick with the "gold bug" on it and which I had given him. Now it turns
out that he hail another cane with a curved end which had been given him
by his brother-in-law for the one with the initials on it given him by us
children, and which the brother-in-law had lost. This curved cane father
had broken in two by some prying, and mended with a tin sheath
or ring about four inches long. This is evidently the cane father had
in mind in the message of February 22nd (p. 397) and as he had used
it for many years (since 1876) it was natural to mention it for identi
fication. But it was the fact that it was broken that moved my aunt
Nannie to give me the money to buy him another, asking me not to tell him
who gave it to him. I bought the " gold bug " stick and gave it to him with
out telling him that it was a present from his sister. Now it will appear that
when he says in answer to my question " who gave you that walking stick ?"
that I did so, he is correct from the point of view of the stick which I had in
mind, but when he says that he told Dr. Hodgson about it he is technically
wrong, though right as to the general circumstance. If we could assume
that in the confusion evident on February 22nd the "gold bug" cane was
actually alluded to as well as the broken cane, but not definitely enough to
be recognised, the reference here would be intelligible. The allusion to the
"ring on it" would appear to prove that he had in mind the broken cane,
of which I was not thinking, as it was the old broken stick that had this
"ring" on it. But "ring" would possibly describe the "gold bug"
as accurately as the tin sheath on the older cane. The frequent
hesitation and dissent in the communication, however, suggests either
that Rector's memory was playing a part in it until corrected, or that
father was thinking about the case, and after the writing of the "ring"
clearly, he suddenly recalls the right cane and suggests the "gold bug"
which is drawn, though it is possible that this was what he had in mind from
.534 [part
J. H. Hynlop, Ph.D.
the moment that I asked my question, and that it was hard to avoid confu
sion with the more familiar cane and incidents of the earlier sitting.
But even the technical mistake almut the giver of the cane that he had in
mind has the great importance of showing the unity of consciousness and
personal identity between this and the sitting of February 22nd, and brings
out reason for natural confusion in the necessary distinctions to be made
bet ween three walking sticks under the difficulties of communication which
are so marked in these experiments. —J. H. H.
Note 93. —I find that the chest which I had in mind here was one of my
grandfather's brought from Scotland and not bought at an auction by father.
The attic ti", that I had in mind was over the kitchen in his house out West.
But my stepmother does not remember any "chest" kept there, but only
some empty boxes which, so far as she can remember, were gotten at a store
and not at an auction. Moreover the chest I had in mind was left behind
in Ohio when he moved West. The incident then remains meaningless as it
stands. — J. H. H.
July 6th, 1900.- Whilst revising the proofs and examining the record
carefully, a suspicion came across my mind that my father might have had
in mind a small c/«.W under an attic-like stairway leading up stairs, and in
which I knew he kept his clothes. I at once wrote to my stepmother and
brother to know if father's cane was kept in this closet both before and
after his death, and also if there was a chest kept there that had been bought
at an auction. The replies were that he kept all his clothes in this closet,
that the cane which he did not use was kept there before his death, and that
the broken cane w hich he had so long used and to which reference is here
made was put into this closet after his death anil kept there until the
house was sold ; also that there was no chest kept there. The allusion
to "attic," to his clothing being kept in the " chest," to the putting of
his cane there by my stepmother, are suggestive in spite of the confusion.
—J.H.H.
July 11th, VMO. —I have just received a letter from one of my aunts in
response to an inquiry about another matter altogether, and in which she
incidentally and without any knowledge of its pertinence mentions one fact
that I knew and another that 1 did not know regarding the chest mentioned
in my first note. Speaking of his military outfit she says : " All I know of
your father's sword was when it was carefully laid away in father's Scotch
' chist ' in the old attic. When I was a little girl 1 would cautiously peek in
to see it and your father's military hat. I thought they were the grandest
things that could possibly be made."
I myself remember that father kept his military suit in that chest, but
do not remember seeing the sword in it, or that the chest wits kept in the
attic. I remember the chest in the new house built in 1861. when the part
of the house in which the old attic existed was taken down.
Have we here then a confusion of two separate facts connected with
father's clothes ? Have we an attempt to mention the chest in which his
military suit was kept, and an association in a confused state with the closet
in which later his clothes and cane were kept ?—T. H. H.
XLI.] 535
Appendix III.
Note 94.—The difficulties attending the final attainment of my informa
tion on the passage from John McClellan, and the reference to his lost finger
and connection with the war, should be a matter of record here. The clue to
my identification of him with the father of my uncle James McClellan was
found in the latter's communications on June 6th (p. 470) in which he
apparently meant that it was his father that had been in the war. I asked
the three sons then living whether their father had been in any war, and
received from all three a negative reply. But finding in the history of the
county in which he had lived that a " John McClelland " had been com
missioned as ensign in the war of 1812 on July 15th, of 1810, I told each of
them about the fact, and they admitted that it must have been their father,
as they did not know any other John McClellan in that county. The next
difficulty which I had to meet was the spelling of the name with the "d,"
which I had never known to be a fact. Inquiry, however, showed that the
family originally spelled it either way, and as the history mentioned had
spelled that of Captain Robert McClellan, about whom and about whose con
nection with that war there was neither doubt nor difference of opinion, in
both ways, I felt that nothing stood in the way of supposing that the John
McClellan meant was the father of the McClellans connected with me,
though it led necessarily bt. the rejection of several incidents as either
unverifiable or false. But in order to obtain official and documentary
evidence of a better sort I applied in Washington, B.C., for information
regarding the enlistment of John McClellan in the war of 1812. The only
hopeful resource was the Pension Office which, however, keeps only the
record of those who received pensions, and not of the enlistments. I did not
find there any John McClellan or McClelland who would fit my case, though
I found a number of pensioners by that name. In the meantime I found by
inquiry among the McClellan family which I knew, indisputable evidence
that the John McClellan mentioned in the history of Greene County, Ohio,
was not the father of my uncle James McClellan. I found that James
McClellan's father, John McClellan, had left Westmoreland County, Pa., in
1813, three years after the date of the commission of the John McClellan
mentioned in the history of Greene County, Ohio, and settled that year in
Wayne County, Ohio. Here he remained until 1831, when he moved to
Greene County, of the same state. I also found that the John McClelland
mentioned in the history of said county had resigned his commission on
August 15th, 1815. The cuse was thus clearly against the identification of
this John McClelland with John McClellan, the father of James McClellan,
and in favour of the memory of his sons that their father had not been in the
war of 1812.
But the course of my inquiries brought me upon the suspicion that this
John McClelland mentioned in the history of the county was the real person
for whom I was seeking, and I employed a lawyer friend living in the county
to thoroughly investigate the case for me. Among the first pieces of
important information was the following from a relative of this John
McClellan (omitting the "d" in further mention of him). Mr. Kyle, my
lawyer, says : "A man by the name of Howard Sparrow, who married a
daughter of Mrs. Beamer, who was the daughter of John McClellan, of
Clifton, came to my office to-day and said that he had heard his mother-in-law.
.53(5 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Mrs. Beamer, speak many times of the fact that her father, John
McClellan, had lost a tinger, and his best recollection is that it was the front
finger on the left hand. This was lost by him while he was in the army."
From a nephew of this John McClellan, living in another county of the
state, I learn that this uncle by name was in the war of 1812, and that prior
to his death he was generally known as "uncle John McClellan" in the
community. There are several corroborations of this fact from other sources.
This nephew thinks that his uncle was an officer in this war, but does not
know whether his uncle lost a tinger in it or not.
A later communication from Mr. Kyle says : " I made a trip to Clifton
where John McClellan was buried. I found Henry Jamison, whose mother
was a daughter of John McClellan, of Clifton. The old family Bible shows
that he died December 18th, 1850, and they also knew that he was sick about
six years before his death. Harry Jamison's father died seven years ago,
aged eighty-one years, and he, George Jamison, was a cousin of the Hatha-
ways. Henry Jamison was of the opinion that the Hathaways lived over
toward Dayton where the Jamisons lived, and of course the inference would
be that if the Jamisons lived in the same neighbourhood and were cousins,
and the daughter of John McClellan married a Jamison, who was a cousin of
the Hathaways, that the families probably associated together."
" Henry Jamison also said he remembered of the name of Williams being
mentioned, but could not give any account as to how or to what extent they
were connected with the Mcl'lellans."
Later information from the same source is : "The Williams are a hard
family to trace, for the reason that there are so many branches of this
family, and they probably associated with John McClellan along in 1825 or
soon after. The Hathaways are a family of early date, but seem to have
disappeared in the early part of the century."
Note 95.—While reading the page proofs it occurred to me that my
uncle was here alluding to my cousin Nannie, and not his sister-in-law.
I was prompted to this by the possible mistake a little later in the name
"cousin Annie." The statement "Annie (my sister) and she are cousins,"
suggests the inference also, as it is true on that supposition. The mention
of "cousin Annie " follows immediately the mention of my sister Annie, and
Rector (or the " machine ') may have confused my uncle's " cousin Nannie "
with the name " Annie " just mentioned. The obverse error seems to have
occurred in the communications of my cousin Robert McClellan (p. 231-235)
where the proximity of the attempt apparently to say "cousin Annie" (my
sister) to his mention of " aunt Nannie " converted the former into "cousin
Nannie." Both are cases of Opisthomimesis (Cf. Footnote, p. 239). The
interpretation in each case is confirmed by two considerations : (1) The
phonetic character of many mistakes. (2) The point tie. re1iire of the relation
ship in the two wises. My cousin stated all the relationships in his communi
cation with reference to himself. My uncle stated them all with reference
to myself. The "cousin Annie" of my uncle's message is the same person
as the "cousin Nannie" of my cousin's communication, namely, the sister of
Robert McClellan. She was very intimate with my uncle and his family,
having boarded her two daughters there while they were in the high school
(August 6th, 1901).— J. H. H.
XLl.] 537
Appendix IV.
APPENDIX IV.
Experiments on the Identification of Personai.ity.
Introduction.
The following experiments were undertaken for the general purpose
of illustrating certain features of the phenomena that have proved
of so much interest in the case of Mrs. Piper. They incidentally
illustrate also, if they do not prove, the fact that identification of
personality may even be possible under less rigid conditions than we
have been insisting upon in our reports. But of this in the proper
place. The first duty is to describe the modus operandi of the
experiments, and then summarise the specific objects in mind when
undertaking them.
Now the Piper phenomena represent a type of experiment in which
we can determine the conditions only at one end of the line. We know
neither whether there is any other personality at the other end than
that of the brain through which we obtain our facts; nor what the
sources of misunderstanding may be, if such personalities other than
that of this brain actually exist. Much less do we know with any
definiteness the conditions that may aid or hamper real or apparent
communications between two worlds, or two different sets of brain
conditions. We have only a set of messages presented to us, purport
ing to come from discarnate spirits, and without the accompanying
criteria which enable us in our everyday experience to test the source
of the communications from one person to another. If, for instance,
we hear a voice in actual life, what it says may confirm our conjecture
as to the speaker, and we can also try for some other and different
test of the source of the voice. But in the Piper case we have nothing
but the bare content of the message, filtered and probably distorted
through the medium's subliminal consciousness, and hence there are
serious difficulties in forming our judgment of the case. But if we
can institute a system of experiments in which both the communicator
and the sitter are limited to conversing with each other through
messages resembling those in the Piper case, we may come to some
538 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
better understanding of what we must allow for in communications
obtained with genuine mediums.
With a view, therefore, to illustrate various aspects of the Piper
phenomena by experiments in which I could study the conditions at
both ends, I arranged a telegraph line between two of the buildings of
Columbia University which were about four or five hundred feet apart.
The termini were so arranged that parties could be brought to them
without seeing each other. I had two telegraph operators employed
for carrying on the experiments. The plan was to select two persons
who were well acquainted with each other, and who had enjoyed more
or less of a common life together, so that incidents common to both
their lives could easily be found for the experiment. But only one of
the two persons was to know who was at the other end of the line, and
it was his duty to select incidents common to the two lives, while I
was to send telegraph messages about them to the other person. This
latter had to identify the sender, to whom he had not the slightest
clue except such as could be ascertained from the messages.
I usually accompanied the person sending the messages, so as to aid
in their formation and proper order. At the other end I had an
assistant who was to explain to the receiver what he was to do, and
also to send any replies that were necessary as guesses or identi
fications. The assistant was also to make a note of any remarks
of the receiver that had a bearing on his guess or decision, and to
ascertain by inquiry the reasons for the receiver's judgment in any
instance. Occasionally I took this place, and the assistant directed
the sending of messages.
I usually allowed the person who was to act as sender to select
the one to whom he wished to send messages, but with a strict
understanding that no mention was to be made of the experiment.
This enabled me or my assistant to arrange with the would-be
receiver to take part in the experiment without his knowing
the sender at all, and without his knowing the purpose of the experi
ment until brought to the end of the Jelegraph line. Here he was
merely told that his duty was to ascertain who it was that was
sending him telegrams, and to say when he was convinced beyond
doubt of the identity of this person. His inferences and judgments
were telegraphed back to the sender, in order to regulate the latter's
return messages. This was important, because it was a part of the
plan followed in the selection of incidents, to start with as vague
general messages as possible and to feel one's way to identification, in
order to see how early a suspicion of the right person would arise and
how indefinite were the incidents necessary to this end.
Also—in order to make the mental situation as much like the Piper
case as the circumstances would allow—I had incidents or statements
XLI.] 539
Appendix IV.
selected that were either not true, or irrelevant, nonsensical, and mis
leading, so that the receiver had to make his decision in spite of
contradictions and incidents that were not really what they may have
appeared to be, and which often had the effect of turning his mind
off some particular scent : since it was important, for the sake of
studying the receiver's mind, to keep him reflecting on more than one
possible sender. It was found necessary to get the cumulative effect of
true and identifiable incidents, to outweigh those that were calculated
to produce caution and scepticism.
There are no doubt some disadvantages in this deliberate production
of incidents intended to confuse the receiver ; since the messages
could have been sufficiently vague and indefinite to get an accumu
lative effect without misleading him, while this policy might suggest a
suspicion that no part of the experiment was bond fide at all. But
this is not a serious disadvantage, as in the Piper case there must be
uncertainty in this very respect, and it is precisely these uncertainties
that force the sitter to wonder whether the incident is what it
purports to be, and whether it has the source that it claims to have.
Consequently, in order to imitate that experiment, I considered it
best to create as nearly as possible the same mental situation for the
receiver of the messages as the sitter must have in the Piper experi
ments. The construction and arrangement of the telegrams were
made with that situation in view. There was only one thing that I
could not do, namely, state immediately some striking common incident
which might lead at once to identification, as this would have prevented
any study of the effect of vague statements upon the judgment of l he
receiver.
The results of the experiments are arranged in three groups, which
I have called respectively Groups A, B, and C. Group A represents
experiments in which the main or only purpose was to identify a
single person, and not much attention was paid to the question
whether the irrelevant and false incidents led to any correct identifica
tion or not.
Group B, of which there were two experiments, consists of attempts
to personate two or more persons in such a way that the main part of
the experiment should point to one person, while others might also be
identified and distinguished from the main person by incidents that
could not possibly belong to the evidence for that person. Thus, the
receiver was to decide spontaneously whom certain incidents repre
sented, and to decide in the same way, without interrogation, the
incompatibility of the other facts with the same personality. The
results show how far this was accomplished. It was difficult, of
course, to keep this group and the first wholly distinct in character.
But in one particular they are distinguishable, namely, that they aie
540 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
designed to represent incidental identification of other persons, while
chiefly occupied with the identification of one particular person by
cumulative incidents.
Group C represents experiments in imitation of the Piper pheno
mena in respect of incoherences, nonsense, and various imperfections
of spelling and expression. The problem of identification is the same in
this group as in the second, except that in it the more important element
is the number of persons to be recognised incidentally, in addition to
the main personality concerned. But the main characteristic is the
more perfect imitation of the Piper phenomena. One difference, too,
is the fact that this group was carried on without the telegraph lines.
The questions were prepared beforehand, and presented to the re
ceiver to be read and examined without going through the more
exciting formality of telegraphing. The same fact is true of the
second experiment in Group B.
I may now summarise the several objects of the whole series of
experiments. I was extremely careful not to breathe the first
of these objects to any one, not even to my assistants, so that
the results might be entirely spontaneous and without the influence
of suggestion from me.
I. To test the extent to which intelligent persons would spon
taneously select trivial and unimportant incidents for the purpose of
identification —that is, incidents that were not connected, or not
necessarily connected, with the main habits of their lives.
II. To test the accuracy of the identification in connection with
both individual and collective incidents, and especially to test how
slight or how definite the incident had to be in order to suggest
rightly the person it was intended to represent.
III. To test the success and personal assurance of the receiver of
the messages in guessing who is the true sender, in spite of some mes
sages that are misleading or even false, but the bulk of which involves
sufficient cumulative facts to overcome the natural scepticism and con
fusion caused by incoherences and contradictions.
IV. To study the sources of misunderstanding that might arise
under such circumstances when one party was ignorant of the inten
tions of the other, and the causes of mistakes in identification which we
can determine in my experiments, and which are likely to occur in
the Piper case.
In regard to the first of these objects, it is very interesting to
observe the uniformity with which perfectly intelligent persons
spontaneously chose what would generally be considered trivial
incidents in order to be identified. This seemed to naturally
XLI.] 541
Appendix IV.
recommend itself to them,—perhaps for the reason that trivial circum
stances represent far more isolation than any chosen from the main
trend of life, though I noticed no consciousness of this fact in any
one. It was simply the instinctive method which every one tended
to adopt. The records show very distinctly that, if left to them
selves, men will naturally select unimportant incidents for proof of
their identity, and it is one of the most interesting features of this
choice that the individual relied wholly upon the laws of association
to recall what was wanted after deciding on the nature of the
incidents to be chosen.
Very often there were interesting illustrations of those capricious
revivals in memory of remote incidents which not only resemble so
much the incidents in the Piper sittings in triviality, but also represent
the caprices and incoherences of associative recall, intelligible to the
subject on reflection, but hardly so to the outside observer. At any
rate, the results in this regard completely remove all objections to the
Piper phenomena from the standpoint of the triviality of the incidents
chosen for identification, and that is an accomplishment of some worth.
On reflection, most persons will at once admit the superior value of
such incidents for scientific purposes ; but too often, under the a priori
assumption—encouraged or created by a false idealism about a trans
cendental state of existence—that discarnate spirits ought to show an
interest in more lofty matters, we suppose that the fact of triviality
indicates a greater probability for a mediumistic origin than for a
spiritistic one. In reality, if the incidents represented were what we
might naturally regard as important, they would be of the sort that
would either be unverifiable at all, or so common to the lives of people in
general that they would be exposed to the fatal objection of guessing
and inference. But if the messages describe uncommon and isolated
incidents, this explanation must be rejected and the evidential
character of the facts recognised, whatever we may think about the
conditions of existence to which they may be supposed to testify.
But after all the spiritistic problem is not at stake here and
perhaps allusion to it is irrelevant, as the real question in these experi
ments concerns only the place of trivial incidents in the evidence.
These incidents, being such as are not likely to occur often,
materially assist identification, while it is obvious that we can infer
nothing from them as to the general conditions of life of intelligent
persons. This fact was evident in the experiments here recorded, as
the persons chosen for the experiments were of the class whose
intellectual occupations and habits of mind could not be depreciated,
and yet the incidents chosen for the suggestion of personal identification
were much the same as those with which we have to deal in the Piper
case. This first object of the experiments, therefore, has been fully
542 J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D. [part
satisfied, and the evidential value of these phenomena vindicated,
whatever the theory we adopt for explanation of them.
The problem presented in the other three objects will have to
be studied in the details of the records, and in incidents that I,
as the experimenter, could observe more readily than a mere reader
of the record would observe without suggestion.
But I must first call attention to an important and characteristic
difference between these experiments and the Piper case. In the latter
there is presumably the utmost effort on the part of the communicator
to he identified, and «'e cannot suppose that there is conscious attempt
to divert, confuse, or deceive the sitter as to the personal identity of the
alleged communicator. But the purposes of my experiments required
some attempt to hold the receiver of messages back from too hasty iden
tification, and in some cases the use of material for at least possible
deception. The object was not merely to see how easily the coin
municator could prove his identity—for this could have been done
under the circumstances with the greatest ease—but it was to imitate
as far as possible the conditions of the Piper record, which exhibit the
necessity of a cumulative character in the evidence and a correspond
ing suspense of judgment, with as much freedom from suggestion and
illusion of interpretation as possible, in order to justify any rational
conclusion whatever. Hence, to effect this result, and to study the
nature of the incidents upon which correct identification could b.i
based—that is, the degree of evidence, general or specific, on which
■a true judgment could rest,—I had to adopt a policy of actually
holding the receiver back from immediate identification. The in
cidents chosen at the outset had to be as vague and indefinite as
possible, and the communicator had to feel his way along gradually
by giving general, or presumably general, incidents with hs little
suggestive power as possible. This plan enables us to determine the
degree of evidence that is at times sufficient for identification, and
it is often remarkable how vague the circumstance may be that
leads to correct identification, as may be remarked in the special
study of the results.
The necessity of following the reverse method of communicating
the incidents to what is naturally supposed to be the procedure in
the Piper phenomena is due to the reverse conditions in the two cases.
In my experiments identification could be easily effected, while in the
Piper case the identification is either difficult, or that form of it is
difficult which requires the spiritistic interpretation for its ex
planation. Consequently I had to cultivate indefiniteness of incidents
at the outset with increasingly specific character as the experiment
proceeded. One advantage, however, I must claim for the experi
ments is that they illustrate and prove,—as the Piper case illustrates
Appendix IV. 543
but does not prove,—the remarkable way in which even the most
general incidents may lead to correct identification, thus strengthening
the force of those which are specific. There are also good oppor
tunities here for the study of illusions in interpretation, and I shall
call attention to this in the proper cases. The object of the diversions
and false incidents, often suggesting other persons than the one
to be identified, after what has been said about the use of general
incidents and the necessity of suspending judgment, will be apparent
without any elaborate explanation. They were important aids in
the more complete imitation of the Piper case.
Before describing the results in detail, 1 must make one more
remark. I do not pretend that these experiments have any im
portance except as illustrations. They are by no means numerous
enough to prove much that is important. They are mere suggestions
of what can be done in this direction, and studies of the
resources of chance and illusion in concrete instances. But they
cannot be considered as more than tentative efforts to exemplify
and study, in the concrete, the phenomena that are connected
with the problem of identification under such exceptional circum
stances as the Piper record exhibits. Others more generally occupied
with experimental psychology than I am may take up the question
and reduce it to more perfect form and results. I have been obliged
to content myself with the suggestion of it, and with the illustration
and at least tentative vindication of the principles upon which the
evidential force of the Piper reports is based.
Anai.ysis of the Experiments.
When it comes to a detailed examination of the experiments
several problems present themselves. They relate to the complex
aspects of the Piper phenomena, which are not always so clear as to be
free from a certain kind of criticism and objection, at least of the
a priori sort, even when we feel ourselves able to overcome it. I have
dealt with the objection based on the triviality of the incidents, and
have shown that this would apply equally to the cases represented
in the experiments here recorded. But there is also one that depends
on two false assumptions, which may as well be exposed at once. It
is that discarnate spirits, if they are supposed to exist, seem to show
arrested development in the kind of talk in which they engage. I
have only to say in reply to this that the present experiments would
seem to show the same condition, if we relied upon the incidents
chosen to form our concep'tion of the habits of mind of the communi
cators. Few, if any, persons could even guess the character or habits
of the communicators in my experiments, and I doubt if it would
544 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
often be possible in any tests for personal identity. But, supposing
that it is possible, it is not a necessary accompaniment of the effort
to prove one's identity. The incidents most conclusive for all such
efforts must be those trivial facts which can hardly be duplicated
in two lives. This aside, however, the attempt to discredit discarnate
spirits and their habits of mind by reflection on their choice of in
cidents to prove their identity meets its refutation in the necessity
of coming to the same conclusion about the communicators in my
experiments, whom I specially chose as being sane and intelligent men,
with occupations supposed to be above trivialities.
I shall have an opportunity to discuss this problem in another con
nection, and only mention it here as preliminary to another question
closely allied to it. I mean the mistakes of memory which must un
doubtedly be attributed to the communicators in the Piper case. It
may not appear a sufficient answer to this to say that the same mistake
is noticed in the sitters, though this is an interesting fact. But I call
attention to the mistakes of memory for the purpose of emphasising
the circumstance that they appear in the present experiments, pre
cisely as they appear in the Piper phenomena. The assumptions that
are made to discredit the spiritistic character of the Piper case are—(1 )
that discarnate spirits ought not to make any mistakes ; and (2) that
our own memories are less liable to illusion than those of discarnate
spirits. Both of these assumptions are baseless. The doctrine of
evolution ought to make us humble enough to avoid the first assump
tion, to say nothing of the fact that the wonder should rather be that
we should have any memory of this life at all, supposing that we
survived. I shall next summarise the several points to come under
review, which imitate what we have to deal with in the Piper case.
They are:—(1) Errors of memory and their effect on the results.
(2) Errors of interpretation. (3) Success and failure in idffitifiea-
tion. Each of these questions will have its subordinate aspect.
1.—Errors of Memory.
The illusions of memory to which attention is here called are on the
side of the receiver of messages, anu illustrate the difficulty of identifi
cation at times when we should have expected it to be easy. Perhaps it
would be better to call some of them failures of memory, but in any
case they are that type of error in recollection which would adequately
explain misunderstanding in a communicator. They often show how
unreliable anyone's statement is when not accompanied by a record
of the facts written at the time. The first of this kind is that of the
receiver in the first experiment in Group A, when reporting to me her
reason for her guess. Had not my question been recorded it would
XLl] 545
Appendix IV.
have been suspected of greater definiteness than it possessed. The
error on the part of the receiver, however, shows the fusion of mental
imagery from her own memory with that conveyed by my question,
and would spoil any narrative of the affair which had to depend on
memory alone (p. 554).
But more important errors of memory are such as show complete
failure to identify the communicator when he was confident that his
incident would succeed in his purpose. They are illustrated in the
following cases :—Group A, Exp. II., Ques. 3 (p. 555) ; Receiver's
remark after Question 6 (p. 556) ; Exp. VI., most of the questions
(p. 559) ; Exp. IX., note to Ques. 4 (p. 569) ; Exp. XVI., Ques. 3, 5,
6, and 7 (p. 589). Group B, Exp. II., Ques. 21 and Ques. 30 (pp. 603,
605). Group C, Exp. I., Ques. 11 and 15 (pp. 612, 613). Also
Group A, Exp. XL, Ques. 15, 16, and 17 (p. 578) ; Exp. XL, Ques.
21, note (p. 579); Exp. XVII., Ques. 17 (p. 593).
There are many others of like import, though not so striking. But
these suffice to show many instances in which identification ought
to take place, but fails. Of course some of the incidents were made
vague for the very purpose of testing whether identification would
occur on slight grounds, and the failure should not be surprising.
But in some cases the very incident which the communicator thought
would without fail identify himself had no suggestive power whatever.
This was very noticeable in Group A, Exp. XL, Ques. 21 (p. 579);
and Exp. XV., Ques. 19 (p. 588). Such facts, involving what is
verifiable on the part of the communicator, show what is possible in
cases of alleged spirits—assuming their reality—and show that the
failure to identify may be wholly due to the sitter. This is specially
to be remarked in Exp. VI. of Group A (p. 559), where the com
municator finally came to the conclusion that, if he had been a
discarnate spirit, it would have been impossible to identify himself
to the receiver, owing to the receiver's inability to remember specific
incidents in their common lives. The value of this case for this
illustration, moreover, lies in the circumstance that, like most cases of
spirit communication, a considerable interval of time elapsed between
the period of common life and the communications, and the com
municator himself could not recall any incidents other than those
chosen to prove his existence or identity. Exp. X. in Group A (p. 572)
is a precisely similar case. It ought to be apparent what a large
share forgetfulness on the part of the sitter has in the difficulties
of identification, when attempting to obtain communications from a
transcendental state of existence, to say nothing of the forgetfulness
of an alleged spirit. The same fact is illustrated in my own sittings
with Mrs. Piper, in which my complete forgetfulness of certain
incidents led to confusion on my part and failure to identify the
2 N
54G [PAKT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
communicator, or even the accusation of falsehood. Some examples
of this have been given in my report of these sittings (p. 131).
2.—Errors of Interpretation.
These are of two kinds in the experiments. The first are those in
which the receiver recalled an occasion and the communicator had in
mind a totally different fact. The second class represents incidents
of an apparent significance which turns out to be wholly due to
chance, since they represent very different facts in the mind of the
communicator.
As illustrations of the first type the following instances may be
observed. Group A, Exp. VI., Ques. 5 and 8 (p. 560) ; Exp. XIV.,
Ques. 3 and 6 (p. 583) ; Exp. XVII, Ques. 10, 17 and 21 (p. 592) ;
Group B, Exp. I., Ques. 2 (p. 596); Exp. II., Ques. 10, 11 and 12
(p. 600). No special importance attaches to these cases of error except
that they should put us on our guard respecting the temptation
to assurance in identification. There are many incidents common
to various persons in life and we may easily forget the fact and
assume specific peculiarities that do not exist. This, of course, is a
truism, and scarcely needs mention here except as indication of the
precautions which I have had in mind in forming my opinion on the
more serious case of Mrs. Piper. It should be remarked, however,
that the incidents that here occasion misinterpretation are often of
that general kind which the communicator would recognise as indefinite
and liable to the illusion, so that as objections to the Piper case
they hardly hold. One important object in these experiments
must not be forgotten, and this is that a deliberate effort had to
be made to conceal identity for the sake of testing the accuracy of
identification by indefinite incidents, and hence it would inevitably
occur that the communicator would state general incidents leading to
wrong apperceptions. The incidents which constitute the strength of
the Piper case, as well as the identification in the present experiments,
are far more specific than those that give rise to the misinterpreta
tions here considered. Besides, there are more numerous cases in
these very experiments in which general incidents were correctly
recalled by the receiver, and in which the identification was correct
and quite assured through them, especially when they were cumulative.
The correct judgments quite offset the errors. Nevertheless the errors
are reasons for caution.
But the most dangerous source of illusion is that type of coincidence
which turns out on inquiry from the communicator to have been due
to mere chance. The best illustration of this is the cumulative
argument, as it appeared to my judgment as receiver, in Group B,
XLI.] 547
Appendix IV.
Exp. II., Ques. 10, 11 aud 12 p. (600V Here I thought I had a
conclusive case of inductive inference as to the person I named as the
sender of the messages, but it turned out that, in spite of this cumula
tive character of the evidence from my point of view, the communicator
had no such incidents in mind as I had imagined. It is true that the
messages were extremely vague and had not suggestive power taken
alone, except Ques. 11, but they are most important examples of the
danger of inductive inferences on indefinite hints. I had, however, no
assurance to satisfy me until Question 27 was sent, which confirmed
strongly the impression given by 26. But it will be apparent that my
assurance was very pardonable here when we recall that Mr. Marvin, who
had been mentioned in my reply, just happened to come in as my reply
arrived, and seeing the possible meaning of the initials G. P., clinched
the case by sending the initials of Phinuit, Rector and Imperator. Cf.
G. P. interruptions (pp. 211-213) and Miss X's incident (p. 202). My
inference at that point became correct, though up to that point it was
an illusion, and the coincidence, in spite of collective incidents favour
ing it, was due to mere chance. The fact, therefore, has its important
lesson of caution, and justifies the demands that both specific incidents
and a cumulative mass of facts in spiritistic communications should be
sufficient to overcome the possibilities of chance as an explanation.
The next incident of a similar character, though not cumulative,
is in Group A, Exp. III., Ques. 6 (p. 557). Somewhat similar cases
are Group A, Exp. VI., Ques. 5 (p. 560), and Group B, Exp. II.,
Ques. 3 (p. 599). They show a temptation to identify through very specific
incidents which are not in the mind of the communicator, or which
merely chance to be common to both persons or exceptional. Of course,
in the case of these experiments the nature of them made it necessary
to make some attempts to identify that were not bondfide, in order to
effect a better imitation of the Piper case, in which confusion often occurs.
The objection would not apply in cases where there must be assumed a
bond fide attempt to identify. Only a misapperception would be
possible in this case, or failure to remember. Moreover the objection
is more than offset by the large number of correct recalls of persons to
whom the incidents would apply as well as to the communicator. In
fact this is so frequent as to favour our confidence in memory in spite
of occasional or even frequent mistakes. Still we cannot be too cautious
in a matter where chance is possible to any extent. Of course, the
Piper case represents too much cumulative evidence to be amenable
to this objection. For instance, what passes for an incident in it often
involves several coincident facts that can hardly be put together by
chance. Thus two distinct names, with their specific relation and
some characteristic fact in connection with them, will be mentioned,
just as they would be in actual life in any narrative involving the
2 n 2
548 [PAKT
,/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
natural unity of consciousness. But in the present experiments the
incidents are rather isolated, so that they get a cumulative character
only by the comparison of one with another. Consequently, the result
in these experiments, if favourable to identification, must give afortiori
force to the evidence in the Piper instance. But without urging this
comparison at present, there is the admissible danger of not allowing
sufficiently for chance in isolated cases of interpretation leading to
identification, and we have always to insist on cumulative and specific
evidence transcending all possibilities of mere accident.
3.—Success and Faii.ure in Identification.
The mistakes in identification furnish a good introduction to
comments on the comparison of the successes with the failures in it.
The most striking feature of the experiments in this respect is
the fact that identification takes place correctly in so many
instances on such slight evidence without any cumulative force.
It is a striking fact that the experiments actually contrast with the
Piper phenomena in this respect. The latter are not only specific facts
of very great argumentative force but have that peculiar complexity
of cumulative character which is generally illustrated in all such
ordinary matters as the conversation between friends over past
recollections. In these experiments the complexity of the incidents
is far less noticeable, and yet the identification is assured and correct.
Quite often a single incident is sufficient to determine the result, and
when we can ascertain the reasons from the communicator as well as
the receiver, we find them entirely satisfactory. It is interesting to
observe that in no case have we allowed ourselves to be governed by
so simple a criterion in the Piper phenomena. There we have insisted
on more rigid evidence and methods. If then the identification can be
justified in the weaker case, it must be justified in the stronger.
There is another point also of some importance in estimating the
value of the evidence in these experiments. It is the fact that the
identification has to be effected only by incidents and without any
suggestion of names. The communicator has to be ascertained solely
by the mention of incidents calculated to suggest him. This is often
the case in the Piper experiments, but there we are often given
a clue in the definite mention of the name of the person from
whom the message purports to come. This gives a decided advantage
for identification which my experiments do not give. With a certain
kind of incidents this linking of the name with them is liable to pro
duce an illusion of identity ; but it affords a definite standard for the
distinction between the true and the false, and enables the mind to
apply more safely the cumulative argument, while it also puts the
XLI.] 549
Appendix IV.
sitter in a position to measure more effectively the nature of test inci
dents, and gives that complexity which the unity of consciousness
ought to show. Hence, if we can be so successful at identification by
mere incidents without names, and by far less specific facts than the
Piper case exhibits, we ought to appreciate the force of the argument
for some enormous supernormal powers on the part of Mrs. Piper,
whatever the theory we adopt to account for it.
With the advantage that the name is so often given in the Piper
case there goes, of course, the liability to illusions of apperception ;
since we may forget that general incidents may apply to other persons
besides the supposed communicator ; yet this is perhaps the only
real objection to the importance of the phenomena as evidence of
the supernormal of some kind. The synthetic unity of individual
groups of incidents, to say nothing of the cumulative unity of the
separate cases when taken together, constitutes an overwhelming
argument for identity, on any theory we may choose to adopt as an
explanation. Illusions of apperception, if memory has any place in
scientific evidence at all, appear to be almost completely eliminated.
But I shall not insist farther on the a fortiori argument from my
experiments to the Piper case. My main object was only to call
attention to the fact that such a comparison could be made. What I
wish to emphasise here is the surprising readiness and correctness with
which identification took place in my experiments under less stringent
evidence than that which we have been demanding in psychical
research. I can lay no stress upon such cases as Exp. I. in Group
A (p. 553), for the reasons there explained. But I may express the
astonishment that I felt at' the time at the readiness of the receiver's
guess when the question was so vague. I saw that identification could
easily occur under far less exacting conditions than I had dreamed
possible, accustomed as I was to treating the far more pertinent and
complex unity of the Piper phenomena with so much scepticism. It
became apparent at a glance that the incidents had to be far more
indefinite in order to secure failure and to test accurately the question
I was considering. Further, in spite of the most careful precautions
in the later experiments to make the incidents or questions more
indefinite and freer from suggestiveness, the identification often took
place in response to surprising indefiniteness and on the most slight
evidential clues, if the Piper case be the standard by which to
measure such evidence. The record shows this to any one who will
examine it carefully, and I need not mention specific instances of
it. Only three failures may be said to have occurred, and one of
these was caused by a misunderstanding of the nature of the experi
ment. This was Exp. XV., Group A (p. 586). The other two are
Exp. VI. (p. 559) and X (p. 572). The former finally succeeded in
550 [PART
J. E. Hyslop, Ph.D.
identification, and cannot be marked as a total failure. Hence there
is but one total failure in identification, and I was struck at the time
with the cause of this failure, which was the undoubted inability to
spontaneously apply inductive reasoning to the messages. I found the
case an illustration of the difficulties under which a discaruate spirit
would have to labour in proving its existence to most people. I
exhausted all my resources, except giving my name, in the choice of
incidents by which to identify myself, and failed. It is true that they
were of a somewhat different kind from those in other experiments,
but they were all that I could command in the case, and seemed to me
in most instances to be very definite, as I still think they were. But
the fault was in the defective observation, recognition, and inductive
reasoning of the receiver. In all other cases, especially where the mind
of the receiver was alert and interested, the identification occurred
on slighter evidence than I had supposed possible.
In two of the experiments this identification and its assurance
were very striking. These are Exp. XIV., Group A (p. 583), and
Exp. I., Group B (p. 595). In the first of these I threw in incidents
for the purpose of diversion and confusion, as well as to test the
possibilities of my own identification without any temptation to fuse
my identity with that of the person chiefly concerned. The case
could be classed in Group B on this account. But the spontaneous
distinction between myself and the personality of others by the receiver
after Question 8 is clear. The second instance is still better. The
distinction between myself and the person I was representing was
marked and positive, which was just what I intended or hoped to see,
and all this, we must remember, was done without any suggestion of
names. [For Remarks on Personation see p. 617.]
The summary of the case for identification involves a distinction
between several forms of it. The main distinction must be between
the persons that were intended to be identified and those that were
not, and both compared with the failures. I shall group them as
follows :—
1. Number of cases identified that were intended. Class A.
2. Number of correct incidental identifications. Class B.
3. Number of failures at identification. Class C.
Class A. Class B. Class C.
17 51 2
In Class A, I have placed only those representing the persons
acting as communicators, or, as in two cases, personated for the
purpose. I have placed one in the failures in spite of the fact that
it was due to a misunderstanding of what was wanted, and would in
all probability have been a success but for that misunderstanding. I
XLI.] 551
Alypendix IV.
have also placed a large number of successes among the incidental
cases, Class B, because they were not communicators. They represent
identification on slight but pertinent clues, and were perfectly correct,
though not always entitled to any importance from a scientific point
of view. Some of them, however, were actually intended in the
messages of the communicator, and might very well be reckoned
among the cases in Class A. As it is, we have 17 successes against
2 failures, and on evidence immeasurably inferior to that in the Piper
case. If we now add to these—as we have a right to do from the
standpoint of intention on the part of the communicator—all those
among the incidental cases that were intended by the communicator
to mislead or encourage suspense of judgment on the part of the
receiver, we should have the following tabular account, thus reckoning
in Class A 24 intended identifications among those in Class B.
This table makes the case stand 41 successes to 2 failures, with
the outstanding possibility that the 27 cases in Class B. might be
given some weight on the side of Class A. It must be remembered,
also, that I have left wholly out of account Exp. IX. in Group A
(p. 567), in which I might have counted several successes.
I add a few remarks concerning Group C. As intimated, it was
carried on without the telegraph arrangement. This enabled me to
imitate the Piper experiments more accurately. I could work up the
incidents so as to imitate the incoherences and confusion of different
incidents so common in the Piper record. If the case is examined, it
will be found to reproduce many of the features of the Piper sittings.
But in spite of incoherence and confusion of distinct incidents, the
" sitter " almost unfailingly identified the right person, even when
indicated out of his proper connection, or the right event or place, and
located them properly. I met the same surprise here, as in my first
experiments, at the slightness of the clue necessary to lead to identifi
cation. The direct recognition by Mr. G. of his father at the use of
the word " anthropogenic " (see p. 610) was a brilliant and suggestive
act. Nor was the recognition of his connection with a murderer less
interesting. But perhaps the slightest clue of all was that by which
he guessed Philadelphia (see p. 611). There was here nothing but a
remote symbolic suggestion, and yet it was prompt and accurate. The
miserable pun which I made on the name Housatonic (name of a
river)—namely, " How's a tonic," with a reference to saying mass for
some one's soul for the State in which the river is—did not fail to
suggest what I intended, in spite of the incoherence in the message.
It was also most interesting to remark that the two incidents which
Class A.
41
Class B.
27
Class C.
2
552 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
the father chose with the greatest confidence that they would identify
himself or his wife were the names of Harrison Avenue and Ives
Place, the latter being the name of the farm where the receiver was
born ! But if the reader will examine carefully the messages and the
guesses, he will find how astonishingly accurate the receiver was on
slight clues and amid difficulties that some of our scientific Philistines
would regard as insuperable. In other words, the judgment of
identification in this and the Piper case unquestionably represents some
claims to scientific consideration, to say the very least that can be said
of it. We may not be satisfied with the verdict in favour of spiritism
in either case, and I do not care to enforce that conclusion ; but on
any theory the significance of the facts for some important conclusion
must be recognised, and if experiments of this kind spontaneously
reproduce a record like that of the Piper sittings, we must admit that
the latter has some weight as evidence of spiritism. We find further
that these experiments completely refute all objections based on the
triviality of the incidents, and show indubitably that we have no right
to draw any conclusions from them as to the character or habits of
mind possessed by the communicators.
5.—Summary.
The important matters of interest in these experiments and com
ments upon them may be summarised in the following manner, which
shows further the points of comparison between them and the Piper
case.
1. The spontaneous choice of trivial incidents by the communi
cators for the purpose of identification.
2. The illegitimacy of inferences as to the character or mental
condition of communicators drawn from the nature of the incidents
for identification.
3. Correct identification of names from mere incidents common
to two lives, or correct judgments in regard to facts only hinted at.
4. Identification of persons on slight but pertinent clues, which
are without cumulative force.
5. The establishment of assurance in regard to the communicator,
in spite of incoherence and diversions or contradictions.
G. Errors of memory on the part of " sitters " that lead to con
fusion and failure in recognition.
7. The natural differences in the personal equation affecting the
choice of incidents for identification, as illustrated in the failure to recog
nise incidents or persons—e.g., Group A, Exp. I., Ques. 3, and others.
8. Occasional liability to illusion from the element of chance,
unless the incidents become cumulative enough to overcome it.
Appendix IV. 553
9. Difficulty and confusion in the communicator when trying to
select at once incidents for identification.
This last feature cannot be appreciated by the reader of this record,
but could be detected only by an eye-witness of the experiments them
selves. Being a witness of them I was struck by the fact which is
also noticeable in communications with the telephone when the party
is limited in time for his communications. The communicator's mind
being set in the direction of specifically pertinent incidents for iden
tification in reference to a particular friend, and being limited in time
for their choice, there was the interesting mental struggle and con
fusion which every one could observe for himself in the play of
association endeavouring to make the right selection of incidents
for the purpose. We can imagine the situation of a discarnate spirit
which can have but a few minutes at least for communication, and
probably working under enormous difficulties of which we know
nothing, to say nothing of the wrench that death might give the
memory, if the usual physiological theories of that faculty are to
be accepted.
GROUP A.—I.
Columbia University, January 30th, 1899.
Communicator : Mrs. H. Receiver : Miss B.
1. Mrs. H. sends telegram : Well, how are you ? It has been a good
many years since I first met you. You were about twelve or thirteen years
old, and wearing short dresses. We soon became good friends. Am I a
man or woman ? Can you guess t
Miss B. (at other end) : That's Mary.
(I said, " You will have to guess again," and found from her remarks that
Miss B. thought she had made a mistake, though, in fact, she was correct.
—J. H. H.)
2. Telegram from Mrs. H. : I was married eight years ago, and you are
not married yet, I believe. At least, no one has told me of such a thing.
I have often seen you since our acquaintance both in New York and
elsewhere. In fact, I have spent summer vacations where you did the same,
though this was not where we met. It was not so far from New York.
Now guess again.
Miss B. : I think that's Mary again.
(I made some remarks to leave the impression that I did not know who
was at the other end of the line, and said that both she and I had to
find out.—J. H. H.)
3. Telegram from Mrs. H. : Were you ever in Boston ? Have you ever
taken a ride up the Hudson ? Do you like music ?
Miss B. : I never had the pleasure of meeting this person in Boston.
I have been up the Hudson many times. Yes, I like music.
4. Telegram from Mrs. H. : I remember that you met an aunt of mine
554 [part
H. Ryslop, Ph.D.
where you used to spend some of the vacations. She was a little hard of
hearing. She and I used to talk about it.
Miss B. : Mary again.
(" How do you know ?" I said^J. H. H.)
Miss B. : Everything in the telegram points that way. She's the only
one that will answer to those in my mind.
5. Telegram from Mrs. H. : I used to go with your mother to concerts.
That was when you were young. We had such good times together. After
wards we met in New York, and it has been some time since we have seen
each other. If I could well come to see her I would do so, but I have my
children to care for, and am too busy to take the time. Besides I live where
it is not so convenient to call as it was once.
Miss B. : I am certain of it. It is Mary. I know it cannot be
any one else.
(On inquiry why she had guessed my wife so quickly as to be practically
certain at the first telegram, though I succeeded in throwing her off the
scent for the moment, she replied that she knew from the age mentioned
that it could be no one else, and that at that age, " twelve or thirteen," she
was only at one place, and that was in Germany during the whole time.
This narrowed the guess down very much, and, of course, shows that my
question was a mistake on my part. I should have made the time more
indefinite. Had I known that this explicit age would have fixed both the
time and the number of acquaintances so narrowly, I should have said some
thing more indefinite. Besides, there is the fact that both my acquaintance
with Miss B. and the difficulty I had in securing her co-operation, taken
with the fact that her family and mine exchange frequent social calls, would
tend to suggest my wife. Consequently, I cannot attach any interest to the
success of her guessing.
I do not require to record any of the remaining questions which I
intended to telegraph, or have telegraphed to her, but can only say that they
led gradually to more specific incidents in the lives of Mrs. H. and Miss B.,
so that if the guess was not made on the indefinite ones it could be made on
the more distinct incidents. The other cases are better.—J. H. H.)
February 5th, 1899.
I wrote to Miss B. a few days after the experiment to ascertain her
reasons for making the inference she did at once after the first message, and
also to see if my conjecture made above about the mental situation
calculated to suggest the communicator was correct. The following is the
lady's reply. J fl RmU.
Dear Professor Hvsi.op.—The impression I retain of the first telegram
is that it was as follows: "I met you abroad when you were twelve or
thirteen years of age in short dresses. I have met you since in this country
and we have become good friends. Am I a man or am I a woman ? " or words
to that efl'ect. I answered, "Mary." This was the first and most natural
thing that occurred to me. In fact I did not exert my mind in the least as
my belief all along was that the whole affair of the telegrams was a blind
to put me off my guard for the real test. I felt, of course, that you had
something to do with the concoction of the messages, and this undoubtedly
XLI.] 555
Appendix IV.
influenced me. It could hardly be otherwise. She was the only person, I
felt, that you knew I could have met in this way, and my answer seemed the
inevitable one.—Very sincerely, q g
(The original question will show the reader that I had not inserted the
word "abroad" in the message, and that I made no allusion to the
communicator's meeting the receiver in this country. This is an interpolation
of the receiver's, a very natural illusion in the case. The remainder of the
letter confirms my suspicion of the influences that suggested the answer and
the mistake of putting the question in the form it has. But I had neither
suspected nor prepared myself for the possibility of carrying on the
experiment to identify any one else. I merely saw that in all future
questions I had to be more indefinite.—J. H. II.)
GROUP A.—II.
New York, January 30th, 1899.
Communicator : Miss O. Receiver : Mrs. H.
In this report, instead of indicating who is sending the telegrams by
giving the initials as before, I shall simply adopt the abbreviation "Com."
for communicator and "Rec. " for receiver.
I had managed to bring Mrs. H. down to the place for the purpose of
communicating with Miss B., and before coming told her that it might take
until twelve o'clock. I did not tell her that it was my intention that she
was to act as receiver. As soon as Miss B. had succeeded in assuring herself
of the person at the other end, I telegraphed to Mrs. II. that I wished her
to guess for some one. I then ordered the telegrams to begin.
It should be further said that I had called at Miss O.'s home on Saturday
last without Mrs. H.'s knowledge. Mrs. H. had understood that I was going
to the college. I had talked the telegrams over in order to make theui as
indefinite as possible and in order to shape them in such a manner as to avoid
early guessing. —J. H. H.
1. Com. : Mrs. H., how are you ? You ought to know me when you
learn that I, at least, know where you live. I think I have met you several
times during the last few years. It was in connection with a friend of yours.
No guess made by receiver.
2. Com. : Do you know any one that you met at a reception in this
city who might be communicating with you in this way l
Rec. : Is it a person who can be seen on Madison Avenue ?
Com. : No. (This answer was sent by my order, but it was a mistake
to have done so. It should have been oracular.—J. H. H.)
3. Com. : I remember that the first time I ever tasted German coffee
cake was at your house. Do you know who that was ! (Cf. Q. 10, p. 5(i4.)
(Receiver made no guess here, but tells me after her return home that the
statement had no meaning for her. I explained that Miss O. told me that the
incident was a real one and that it took place at our house, Mrs. H. having
thought it nonsense to throw her off the track or confuse her, and not having
any memory of any one eating German coffee cake at our house. —J. H. H.)
556 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
4. Com. : Do you remember that either the intermezzo or the largo was
played at a reception on Seventy-fourth Street, and that you and I talked
about it ?
(My assistant at the other end of the line records that Mrs. H. said to
him : "I don't know any one that lives on Seventy-fourth Street," and then
telegraphed to "Com." the following: "Was the reception on Seventy-
fourth Street a junior reception to seniors at the French School ? " I had
no reply sent to this question, but went on with the next telegram.
J. H. H.)
5. Com. : Do you remember that Mr. Hyslop described to me the pro
cess of making wine and that he took me afterward to the cellar to show
it to me ? Guess again.
(My assistant records Mrs. H.'s remark as follows : "He has done that
for too many people for me to distinguish.")
6. Com. : You and your husband once took dinner at our house and
Mr. Hyslop talked with my uncle on some interesting questions connected
with his work at Columbia. It was in the spring.
Rec. : I think it is Miss Eleanor Osborne.
(I sent back the reply : "Guess again, and be certain about it."—
J. H. H.) (My assistant records Mrs. H.'s further remark : " I do not
remember the other things in connection with her.")
7. Com. : I met you first at a Barnard tea, and afterward at several
functions of this kind.
(My assistant records Mrs. H.'s remark : " I think it must be she. This
is the answer to question four." This is correct, but I went on with the
next message.—J. H. H.)
8. Com. : I remember also an intimate acquaintance of yours who
attended Barnard, and with whom I used to study down there. We used
often to discuss the Civil War, she defending the Confederate side and I the
other. Could you guess me 1
Rec. : I'm sure it is Miss Osborne. (My assistant adds Mrs. H.'s
remark : "The person with whom she conversed on the war was Miss
Hall.")
(I here sent back word that the guess was correct, and said it was not
necessary to go any further with the experiment. But I had gone only half
way through my intended questions, which gradually became more specific,
though the tenth was intended to throw Mrs. H. off the scent.—J. H. H.)
GROUP A.—III.
New York, January 30th, 1899.
Communicator : Mr. McW. Receiver : Dr. V. I.
1. Com. : I have known you for about a year. Who am I ?
Rec. : Go ahead. (My assistant records Mr. V. I.'s remark to him as
follows : " Probably some man about the university."—J. H. H.)
2. I met you in the Geological Department.
(My assistant records remark : " That perhaps restricts it to some one in
the Geological Department."—J. H. H.)
XLI.] 557
Appendix IV.
3. Com. : I met you in your own room—the museum.
(Receiver makes no guess.)
4. Com. : I saw you once at a concert.
Rec. Did I see you there ?
Com. : Possibly.
5. Com. : The concert was at Carnegie Hall.
Reo. : Either McW. or McD. [Nearly correct, as reader can see.—
J. H. H.]
Com. : Have to try again.
(My assistant records Mr. V. I.'s remark: "I don't think McD. saw
me."—J. H. H.) [This shows the judgment correct.—J. H. H.]
6. Com. Do you still wear that giddy necktie you had last fall 1
(This question was sent in order to create a diversion and to cause a
break in the chain. Mr. McW. told me that he did not know of any reason
for asking such a question, so far as his own knowledge went, and that it was
simply a wild question. After the experiment was over Dr. V. I. said that
the question had thrown him completely off the track, because he had
bought a red necktie last fall, and was wearing it then, and had thought of
a Mr. B., a freshman, who used to joke him about it, but that he, V. I.,
could not think him here.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : Do you remember that when I met you in the museum you
showed me some rare fossils ? Who am I ?
Rec. : Dr. Savage.
8. Com. At the concert we looked at a score together.
Rec. : McW. [Correct.—J. H. H.]
Com. : Well, we shall see.
9. Com. : How are you getting along with the flute ?
Rec. : McW. without question.
(This was correct, and the guess had been so several times, and it seemed
unnecessary to do any bluffing, as it would only have taken up time and
ended in the same result. —J. H. H.)
Remarks. —Mr. McW. had met Dr. V. I. only comparatively recently
and had not been with him so very often, and was not an intimate acquaintance
of the gentleman. It is possible that this fact may have helped to run down
the right person in the guessing, but the main facts were vague enough for
us to have expected more delay in the success, except perhaps for the possi
bility always that the incidents or questions may have a much narrower signi
ficance than even the interrogator might suppose. The reading of the score
together might not have been a frequent incident, as it turned out it
was not, in the experience of the receiver. It was a priori probable also
with McD.—J. H. H.
GROUP A.—IV.
Communicator : Mr. McW. Receiver : Mr. F.
1. Com. : I have seen you about Columbia for several years. Who am 1 1
Rec. : Can't guess.
m 2. Com. : During nearly all this time I have known you.
Rec. : No clue.
558 [PABT
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
3. Com. : A short time ago I inet you with another friend about your
height.
Rec. : Was this friend a student ? There is no clue.
Com. : You must guess.
4. Com. : We walked over to the elevated railroad together.
Rec. : It is McW.
(My assistant adds Mr. F.'s remark: "This is the only one Hyslop
would know.")
5. Com. : Have you received your doctor's degree yet 1
Rec. : Ask another.
6. Com. : Is Prof. C. at Columbia to-day !
Rec. : Is it German ?
(This is the name of another student friend. When I read it and until
copying it down I thought that it was intended as a mere bluff or diversion
to indicate to us at the other end of the line that the sender did not propose
to be thrown off the track. But as I now recall the name of the student,
I see that it is intended as another guess.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : We recently talked about recent educational developments at
Columbia.
Rec. : Is it Jones ?
Com. : Try again.
8. Com. : We spoke especially of the department of Psychology.
Rec. : Is it Judd ? (My assistant adds receiver's remark : " Walking
to the elevated is the only clue.")
Rec. : Once more.
9. Com. : I invited you to call at my office.
Rec. : Is it McW. (" Decided clue," said to assistant.)
10. Com. : Are you not studying after images ? What are they any way ?
(Assistant records receiver's remark : " Still think it McW.")
Rec. : Have you forgotten the numerous papers I had in C.'s
Seminar ?
11. Com. : Which one of C.'s Seminar's ?
Rec. : '95-'b\ '96-7. Still think it McW.
12. Com. : I met Houston a few days ago on Broadway. He has a heavy
beard.
Rec. : McW. (To assistant : " Decided clue.")
13. Com : I saw you on college campus this morning.
Rec : McW.
(This was correct and assured, and there was no use in going any
further with it. The main object was to see whether the receiver would
come back to his first correct guess. —J. H. H.)
GROUP A.—V.
New York, January 30th, 1899.
Communicator : Mr. McW. Receiver : Mr. F.
1. Com. : I have known you off and on several years. Who am I ?
Rec. : Dr. Hyslop.
XLi.] Appendix IV. 559
2. Com. : I met you not long ago on a car.
Rec. : Where 1
3. Com. : It was a trolley car.
Rec. : Was it in Newark or New York ?
4. Coin. : It was in the evening.
(Receiver remarks to assistant : " No clue." )
6. Com. : It was a Sunday evening.
(Receiver remarks to assistant : " Couldn't have been here. No clue.
Don't recall any such circumstance." )
6. Com. : I have heard that you teach French at Columbia University.
Is that so 1
Rec. : Did I see you on the car ?
7. Com. : Do you have advanced or introductory courses ?
Rec. : Go ahead.
8. Com. : You mentioned Newark. Do you live there ?
Rec. : Did I see you on the car 1
Com. : Yes.
9. Com. : When I met you on the car it was on a principal street.
Rec. : Go ahead.
10. Com. : I got on the car as you got off.
Rec. : It is McW. Did I step all over your feet ?
Com. : Try again.
Rec. : You took my cousin home from church that night and had just
left her house.
(This answer was so explicit and correct that the experiment was not
continued.—J. H. H.)
GROUP A.—VI.
New York, January 30f/i, 1899.
Communicator : Dr. M. Receiver: Mr. McW.
This experiment is a specially interesting one in the influence of precon
ception, and has its lessons of caution, though in the end the preconception
is overcome and the identity of the right person discovered.
1. Com. : How long ago is it since you saw me at an alumni meeting '{
They told me that you were assisting in music.
(No reply.)
2. Com. : I never knew you were musical.
(No reply.)
3. Com. : What on earth are these experiments for ? They tell me
Hyslop is back of them.
Rec. : Ask him, not me.
(A little suspicion might have suggested that this question was a ruse, as
the person sending messages had to be acquainted more or less with both
the nature and the object of the experiments.-—J. H. H.)
4. Com. : Did not I see you at the opera the other night ?
Rec. . You ought to know. Did I see you ?
560 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Receiver remarks to me : " I suspect that it is Keppler.")
5. Coin. : I don't know.
Rec. : What night were you at the opera ?
Com. : Last Wednesday.
Rec. : It is Keppler.
(It was a fact not known by the communicator that Mr. Keppler and
Mr. McW. had each seen the other at the opera without either knowing
this of the other at the time.—J. H. H.)
6. Com. : I have been looking at the library building. It is fine.
Rec. : Is it Keppler ? Am surer yet.
(The sender did not intend this question to suggest this person, but only
to lead up to something else, and it is interesting to see the receiver's reason
for guessing him. He remarked to me that he did so because K. likes opera
and is interested in photography, which he had applied to the library.
"Everything so far sent belongs to him." A bystander also remarked the
same suggestiveness in all messages.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : They might just as well have built the college up in Yonkers
if they expect us to get up here.
(No reply.)
8. Com. : I saw the library when building, but life is too short to get to
Harlem more than once a decade.
(No reply.) (Receiver remarked to me : " Makes me think of Keppler
more than ever.")
9. Com. : Goodnow ought to have jumped on you. [This was a vague
reference to conduct of McW.'s in Prof. Goodnow's class some years before
while sitting near Mr. M.—J. H. H.]
Rec. : Why ?
10. Com. : They tell me you are in the old lunatic asylum. I suppose
you will be glad when it is replaced by a better building.
(No reply.)
11. Com. : " No, not the hangman's axe bears half the keenness of thy
sharp tongue."
(Reoeiver remarks to me : "This is a quotation from Shakespeare.
It is mere rambling on the part of Keppler." The fact was that in the
Columbian for 1892, the class book of wit and satire, this was the verse that
was supposed to characterise the receiver, Mr. McW. The verse was not
recognised at all.—J. H. H.) (Cf p. 561).
12. Com. : There are lots of things I should like to talk over with you.
Rec. : Mention a few. (The statement was only a diversion.—
J. H. H.)
13. Com. : If you pricked that it would bleed. That was a good one,
wasn't it i
Rec. : What would bleed ? (To me he remarked: " Goodness sake,
what's that?"—J. H. H.)
(This was a striking incident in the class some years ago, which was as
follows : The class was reading Heine, under Professor Boyesen, both Mr.
McW. and the sender being in the class together, and when a certain fine
passage was read, Professor Boyesen sprang to his feet and exclaimed,
"If you would prick that it would bleed." Mr. McW. had come out of
XLl] 561
Appendix IV.
the room after the lecture, and, alluding to the remark quoted, said,
" Wasn't that fine ?" ) (Gf. p. 560.)
Com. : A passage from Heine.
Reo. : Why don't you own up, Keppler ?
14. Com. : What was that amusing experience you had teaching 1
Rec. : Please be more specific. (The question was intended to be a
diversion.)
15. Com : Sie sehen aus als ob ich chinesisch gesprochen hatte.
Rec. : Well, what is Chinese for Keppler !
(This German sentence refers to an incident somewhat similar to that in
Question 13. Professor Boyesen had asked a man a question and received
for answer nothing but a blank stare. Professor Boyesen blurted out the
sentence that the communicator here quotes, and after the class Mr. McW.
spoke of it as if it was to be remembered. — J. H. H.) (Cf. p. 560.)
16. Com. : Do you remember making any one laugh in college ?
Rec. : Yes.
(Receiver remarks to mo : "Anybody would guess that. It is certainly
nothing but Keppler fooling around."—J. H. H.)
(Receiver had made the practice of making the sender, who sat next him
in the class, laugh a great deal.—J. H. H.)
17. Com. : Who ?
Rec, : You, I suppose.
18. Com. : You told me about your visit at Cattell's.
Rec. : When did I tell you ?
(This question was a true incident of recent date, but rather general,
and was intended to bridge the chasm between earlier and later events.—
J. H. H.)
19. Com. : What results did you get in your experiments in attention ?
Rec. : I never performed any except this one.
(The communicator had only two or three years ago been the subject of
some experiments on attention, or the influence of outside incidents upon
action intended to be under the control of attention. —J. H. H.)
20. Com. : Say, did we bother Cattell l
Rec. : Do you mean to-day 1
Com. : Long ago.
(This question refers to an incident just after performing the experiment
alluded to in Question 19. Mr. M. and Mr. McW. went after their experi
ments into the next room and carried on such a disturbance that Mr. McW.
expressed a fear that they would disturb the person named.—J. H. H.)
Rec. : Please tell me just when you refer to.
Com. : When experimenting in attention at 49th Street.
Rec. : Oh, yes, you mean with the telegraph key.
(Receiver remarked to me : "Still Keppler, as I think he experimented
with me."—J. H. H.)
21. Com. : I remember you spoke about the difference between a tone
when held a short time and when held a longer time.
Rec. : Go ahead.
(This statement refers to a conversation of later date than the previous
events, and seems to have had no suggestiveness.—J. H. H.)
2 o
.562 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
22. Com. : You seem to have forgotten some of Boyesen's best remarks.
Rec. : For instance 'i
(Receiver here remarked to me : " If Keppler did not help me with
those experiments, it is narrowed down to Franz. But Franz did not go to
the opera."—J. H. H.)
23. Com. : Questions 13 and 15.
Rec. : Yes, I remember, but say, Keppler, are you not getting tired ?
24. Com. : After Strong's lecture you met me at the entrance to the
library going upstairs to read Wundt's Studien.
Rec. : Had you attended the lecture in question ?
Com. : Yes.
25. Com. : I met Morgan of '92 the other day.
Rec. : Did he say, " Hello, Keppler, how are you?"
(The communicator tells me that he sat between Morgan and McW., the
receiver, in the class, and that Morgan was very intimate with McW.—
J. H. H.)
26. Com. : Morgan and you used to make me laugh.
Rec. : Were you in the class of '92 !
(It was astonishing to the sender that this with 25 had not suggestive
influence, as ought to be apparent to any one.—J. H. H.)
27. Com. : Don't you ever take lunch here Tuesdays ?
Rec. : Yes, I shall gladly accompany you next Tuesday. (This ques
tion was intended as a diversion.)
28. Com. : Didn't Terwilliger get the mathematical prize in the Freshman
year ?
Rec. : Yes, go ahead. (Receiver writes on paper that he suspects
Marvin.)
(The pertinence of this question will be seen by the receiver's further
remark to me :— "Keppler was not in college at this time. Marvin was,
and he sat beside me with Morgan on the other side." The communicator,
in explaining the question, says that Mr. Terwilliger and the receiver
were very intimate, the former having since died, so that the question
with the discrepancy of time and the suggcstiveness of a few of the
later questions began to tell on the receiver, and to break up his pre
conception.—J. H. H.)
29. Com. : Goodnow used to get mad at my laughing, you sinner.
Rec. : I never had a course with Goodnow, did you ?
(As a matter of fact, both students had a course in Sophomore History
with the Professor named, and it was in this class that the experience with
the laughing took place, which the communicator remembers so well, and
the receiver seems to have so completely forgotten. —J. H. H.)
30. Coin. : Did Goodnow teach you history in the Sophomore year ?
Rec. : No, Dunning.
Com. : Didn't Goodnow one term and Dunning the other ?
Rec. : Possibly, but I don't remember.
31. Com. : Can't you let a man get some lunch ?
Rec. : Why don't you give me some definite clue !
(The fact was that only a few days ago Mr. McW., the receiver, was at
the window of his room on the college grounds, and said to the sender in
XLI.] 563
Appendix IV.
regard to another man that he would be over at his room in a minute, and
told the sender to hurry up and get his lunch.—J. H. H.)
32. Com. : You and Morgan used to keep me laughing in Sophomore
History.
Rec. : Did you sit near us 1
(Compare this question of the receiver's with his remark to me after
receiving Question 28. A discaruate spirit would have no chance to identify
himself under such conditions.—J. H. H.)
Com. : Yes.
Rec. : In the next seat 1
33. Com. : You might have caught cold in the open window.
Rec. : I guess Marvin.
34. Com. : Have they built a post-office in your town yet ?
Rec. : Something sensible !
35. Com. : I have a lecture to-morrow morning at 11.30.
Rec. : With whom 1
(The statement was the reiteration of what the communicator had said
in the receiver's hearing two hours before as he left the room where we were
to go over to the other end of the line. It was, of course, as a blind
that it was said, and was repeated here as a sort of ruse before the next
question.—J. H. H.)
36. Com. : I sat next to you in history.
Rec. : Is it Marvin ? (Receiver remarks to me : "I feel rather sure
frjm some things." But just think of this question after what has already
been said in the case.—J. H. H.)
37. Com. : I was going down the steps to lunch when you appeared at the
open window and suggested my hurrying up.
Rec. : Marvin, sure.
(At last the preconception was broken and the identification assured.
But it was accomplished only by means of the most recent events, and by the
clearest incidents that the communicator could imagine. —J. H. H.)
1. Com. : Do you remember having met a friend some time ago 1
(No reply.)
2. Com. : Have you lately translated any English poems-into French 1
Rec. : Is it Page ?
(The question implies a true incident, and one that the person named in
the answer most probably knew. —J. H. H.)
3. Com. : Do you know anybody living up town near Amsterdam
GROUP A.—VII.
Communicator : Mr. J.
New York, January 31st, 1899.
Receiver : Mr. B.
564 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
4. Com. : Have you ever called on President L. 1
(No reply.)
(The communicator and receiver had called on person named together. —
J. H. H.)
5. Com. : Do you remember some of our walks in the morning ?
Rec. : Go ahead with another.
(Question was a diversion.)
6. Com. : Do you take any lessons in French 1
(No reply.)
(The question again was a diversion, though it implied a true fact. With
a preconception it might have been suggestive.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : I wear glasses.
Rec. : Everybody here wears glasses.
(Statement was pertinent, and so was the answer.)
8. Com. Have you ever had any illusions ?
Rec. : Is it J. ? (Full name given.) [Correct.—J. H. H.J
(After a lecture once which the sender was giving and which the receiver
attended, Mr. B., the receiver, said to the communicator who had influenced
him somewhat : " You have taken away my illusions and given me others."—
J. H. H.)
Com. : Try again .
(This was always used as a diversion, to throw the receiver off the
track and to thus make the result the effect of accumulative evidence,
—J. H. H.)
9. Com. : Whose poems did you recite 1
Rec. : When 1
Com. : A week ago.
Rec. : I am sure it is Page.
(The question implied an incident which the sender knew but did not
witness, though he had talked about it with the receiver, and the person
named had witnessed the recitation. —J. H. H )
10. Com. : It looks like a coffin now.
Kec. : I don't understand.
Com. : You do understand.
Rec. : I do not.
(The phrase here sent to the receiver was one he used in the presence of
the communicator once after cleaning up his desk. His friends made a
standing joke of it, but it should have recalled the communicator, as
intended.—J. H. H.) (Cf. Ques. 3, p. 555.)
11. Com. : Why did you not go to Fall River 1
Kec. : There are many of these questions that suggest Professor Cohn.
(The answer is pertinent, as the receiver had talked about this trip to the
person named and had been "jollied" by him about the coffin incident.—
J. H. H.)
12. Com. : Have you called lately on Professor Speranza's family ?
(No reply.)
13. Com. : Do you remember walking down Amsterdam Avenue recently
with mo ?
Rec. : I did with all the persons suggested.
Appendix IV. 565
14. Com. : Who knows about your temptation to buy books ?
Rec. : That is J. surely.
(This was correct as before, and was an incident about which there could
be no mistake in the matter of identity. After the experiment was
completed the receiver remarked to my assistant at the other end of the
line: "Most of the questions were closely related to incidents in my
acquaintance with Mr. Page. I did not guess Mr. J. at first, as he was Dr.
Jones's (assistant at that end of the line) room mate, and because Dr. Jones
had asked me to take part in the experiment. I thought that he would not
be likely to select Mr. J."—J. H. H.)
GROUP A.—VIII.
New York, January 31st, 1899.
Communicator : Mr. McW. Receiver : Professor C.
1. Com. : I have known you for several years, meeting you now and again.
Rec. : Am thinking of Hyslop.
(This would apply to me as it would apply to almost everybody in the
University and many outside, so that there is no excuse for guessing me
except that fact, and perhaps the suspicion that I was connected with the
experiment. But this only shows that it was a mere guess and not an
inference from anything that the statement suggests. There was also the
habit of mind in C. that induced him to suppose that the party must be
about the University. This, again, points to mere guessing and not
scientific inference.—J. H. II.)
2. Com. : I once had a ride with you in a buggy.
Rec. : Hallock.
3. Com. : I once spoke with you when you were with James.
(My assistant at the other end wrote down " Hyslop " for the answer,
but it is crossed out and was not sent. This is an interesting incident
because it is true that I never spoke with the person named when the
receiver was present, though such a thing would be an a priori probability.
The temptation to give my name and then the correction shows that memory
does not recall any such fact connected with me.—J. H. H.)
4. Com. : Do you remember the meeting between us two and Baldwin ?
Rec. : Hyslop.
(No answer being sent to the previous message led me to think that this
answer was a good illustration of what I wanted to test by the experiment,
for twice in a merely incidental manner B. and I crossed each other's paths
in C.'s presence. But there was nothing in the question that would suggest
me any more than perhaps a hundred others. But the intended answer to
be sent to the previous message indicates what suggests the reply to this
one. Having my name in mind the consistency of this incident with it
would naturally prompt the reply on that ground and not on that of
inference. The reply is therefore liable to the objection that it is an
illusion in spite of its correctness.—J. H. H.)
5. Com. : Do you not remember telling me about Cope's high position
among biologists ?
566 [I'ART
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Rec. : No. (This answer stands in the note of the assistant and
was not sent, but in its stead was sent the remark, "Still thinking of
Hyslop." The answer " No " would have been correct in regard to myself,
but not correct in regard to Mr. McWhood, though it was a priori possible
that such a remark was made to me ; but unless the incident was explicitly
recalled, such a remark should not be interpreted as either a memory of
anything or an inference. It is a mere guess and a worthless one at that.
—J. H. H.)
6. Com. : I called at your house once at Garrison.
Rec. : Franz.
(This was a perfectly absurd guess, because this very man was standing
beside the receiver, and could not be the sender of the message according to
the whole bond fide purpose of the experiment. There was absolutely no
excuse for such a guess, except that the man mentioned had been at his
house, unless there was a misunderstanding on the receiver's part in regard
to the nature of the experiment.
Inquiry since writing the note above this line shows that there was just
this very misunderstanding, and hence the absurdity of the answer is not
admissible from the standpoint of the receiver, but only from the stand
point of my assumption. —J. H H.)
7. Com. : When I called, it was a warm day in summer.
Rec. : Franz.
(This might consist with the message, but it was a wrong guess, and
shows the influence of preconception, as was noticeable in more than one of
this subject's answers.—J. H. H.)
8. Com. : Are you going to lecture at Wood's Holl this summer?
Rec. : Franz.
(This might be relevant, but it is mere guessing, not inference.)
(This note has to be altered to suit the fact later ascertained about the
misunderstanding in regard to the rights of inference. Besides I have since
ascertained from Mr. Franz what Mr. McWhood thought was not true,
namely, that Mr. Franz had talked about this very thing.—J. H. H )
9. Com. : Should you advise me to read Helmholtz or Stumpf ?
Rec. : Franz or McWhood.
(This was quite a relevant answer in so far as the second name is con
cerned and if the first person had not been with the receiver it might have
been relevant to him, so far as I and the communicator knew at the time.
The question suggested authors whom these two students were to read, and
most especially Mr. McWhood, they being the chief authors used on the
subject of sound, and Mr. McWhood having devoted himself to that of
sound.—J. H. H.)
10. Com. : Will that article of mine in the Paychalogirtd Review be
reprinted ?
Rec. : Franz.
(This question was intended by Mr. McW. to be misleading, as he had
never printed an " article " but only a review in this periodical, and supposing
that Mr. Franz would not be guessed, although he had written an article
for the Review, Mr. McW. thought to divert the clue to some one else than
himself, and only got the answer which was perfectly relevant. —J. H. H.)
XLI.] 567
Appendix IV.
11. Com. : Will you still edit Science next year 1
Rec. : Franz.
(This again was a vague question intended to keep the receiver off the
track awhile. Tho answer was recognised as relevant by the sender, but
Mr. Franz told me afterward that he saw no reason for such an answer. Mr.
Franz, however, has had much to do with the management of /Science. —
J. H. H.)
12. Com. : At Garrison we played tennis and you beat me.
Rec. : Witmer or McWhood.
(This was pertinent, though we who were sending the messages had no
knowledge of its pertinence to the first person mentioned. But this mention
of a person outside the limits of the university illustrates and confirms the
principle on which the receiver assumed that the guessing was to be done.
There was absolutely no reason to suppose that Witmer was sending the
message.—J. H. H.)
13. Com. : I stayed at Garrison a week or two.
Rec. : McWhood, not sure.
14. Com. : While at Garrison I stayed at the hotel and rode out to your
house on a bicycle.
Rec. : McWhood.
(This question was intended to close the experiment by a specific incident
about which there could be no doubt, and the answer was correct as it had
been in several other cases.—J. H. H.)
(Note.—There is nothing in this experiment to illustrate as clearly as I
should like the correctness of spontaneous inference and verification of per
sonal identity by the arbitrary selection of incidents common to two lives.
The assumption of the receiver, which is more fully explained in the
account of the next experiment, shows that, although the identification was
correct in the several instances, it did not represent a process of cumula
tive facts in reference to one person with irrelevancies which might be
calculated to disturb the judgment at times. The assumption that any
relevant person could be guessed and recognised spoils this case also. But it
still illustrates preconception, though not to the same extent as in the
next experiment.—J. H. H.)
GROUP A.—IX.
New York, February 2nd, 1899.
Communicator : Professor Hyslop. Receiver : Professor C.
This experiment turned out absolutely useless for the purpose of the
general series. The wrong answer to the first question made it impossible,
with the short time of half-an-hour at our disposal, to run the receiver off
the track suggested by my name, the reason for which appears in the answer
of the same person in the experiment of January 31st.
Before beginning the sending of messages the receiver sent me word
that he had only twenty-five minutes at his disposal, while in other cases
we had a full hour. The first question was designed to suggest any one of a
568 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
group, a small group, of persons about the university and others who may
have been at Johns Hopkins University when Professor C. was there. The
answer given was absurd, as I was not at this institution until long after the
receiver. But in mentioning my name the receiver established the point de
repere about which some equivocal facts were to turn, and hence their
identification with me is liable to the objection of an illusion of identity,
though no such illusion is involved. Several later questions were in
tended to suggest another person in a neighbouring city who was more
closely associated with the receiver at the time denoted by the queries than
myself. But the false suggestion at first of my name gave an associative
clue to some questions that might not have recalled me at all. Hence the
success has no value at all in the case. It could only count as a possible
illustration of the tendency to accept a hypothesis for a fact that consists
with it, but which might not of itself suggest it. This is borne out by the
tendency to throw off all irrelevant matter in the case as not calculated to
disturb the conviction already formed.
Another fact has some importance in the case. The experimental work
of the receiver has been conducted upon the fact that subjects and agents
were connected with this university, and his own habits of thought lay at
the basis of his first induction, and knowing that I was engaged in the general
experiment there was a natural limitation to the number to be guessed from.
The same absurd guess was made on the first message on January 31st,
as indicated by its language, and more distinctly by his personal statement
afterward, when he said that he did not intend it as a guess, because he
recognised that the incident did not suggest the name directly. Ilis idea was
that being conscious that I was back of the experiment, I had something to
do with the message. This is relevant as a guess, but not as a suggestion,
and in any case it indicates enough already in consciousness to make the
result useless for the problem before us, though the manner of answering
and discarding the incidents not relevant to the person suggested at first
illustrates more natural control of the clue than was true of many others
in the experiments. The experiment, however, is recorded here as it
occurred.
t. Com. : Do you remember me while you were at Johns Hopkins i
Rec. : Hyslop.
(There was no reason, in fact, to suspect this as mine, as I had not been
there until long after him. I am not even certain whether any one at this
university was there at the time. Hence there is only the name of Johns
Hopkins and the fact that I had been there to give any pertinence even to
a guess, and that only as a person who was connected with the message.
But it spoiled the whole result. It would have applied better to another
colleague.—J. H. H.)
2. Coin. : Do you remember George Morris ?
Rec. : Hyslop.
(This again was a perfectly absurd answer. It was relevant only as
implying that I had sent the message, not as a memory of me in connec
tion with George Morris, who had lectured at Johns Hopkins at least near
the time that Professor C. was there. But I never knew him, and was not
there until seven or eight years after that date. But again the fixity of the
XLI.] 569
Appendix IV.
receiver's mind upon my name was such that equivocal incidents were not
calculated to throw it off, and the answer to the next question was half sug
gested by a preconception. —J. H. H.)
3. Com. : You and I were at a meeting with T. and S. H. in Phila
delphia.
Rec. : I say Hyslop, not sure.
(This answer was pertinent and true. But the two men mentioned have
never been at any similar meeting since then, and the receiver had only
seen me twice before, and we had not talked together at this meeting.
This fact is probably the source of the receiver's doubt in the case. The
test of his memory for small incidents independently of these experiments
convinces me that it would be too problematic to say that the suggestion
had only a possible consistency with the original hypothesis. But this
question and several others were designed to lead up to the suggestion of
another person, as will appear. But I had to omit two of the intended
incidents on account of the point de rep&re already in mind, and consistent
with, though not readily suggestible by them.—J. H. H.)
4. Com. : Who is Dixon Morton 1
(This name is the pseudonym of an acquaintance of the receiver's, and
more particularly of the man whom I wished to suggest, and who was closely
associated with the receiver both as a student and teacher afterwards.)
Rec. : Hyslop.
(This was a perfectly absurd answer to me, except on the supposition
that the receiver had read Part XXXIV. of the Proceedings i and, knowing
that I was interested in this subject, inferred that I had sent the message.
But this makes the guess absurd in the light of the experiment and its
object. The receiver afterward told me that the name had no meaning to
him, and that he neither understood it nor sent any reply to it, though I
talked with him not more than ten minutes after the experiment. But the
fact is that the telegram received from his end of the line stands in the
original record in the handwriting of the telegrapher. The probability is that
this judgment about it by the receiver is confused with the later reference
to the same name where my repetition of it was calculated to throw him off
the track. But the persistency of my name in connection with absolutely
irrelevant matter appeared to be a case of fixed or persistent ideas that made
it impossible to succeed in any reasonable diversions from them. I saw that
if this would not break the dominant idea, nothing would do it. But I tried
again with an equivocal incident, and the answer remained the same.—
J. H. H.)
5. Com. : Do you remember any ride to B. M. (name of place) and our
talk on your subject ?
(We had had the talk, but the ride might have been a possible one with
the person in P. whom I wished to suggest).
Rec. : No. (This was pertinent to me, and possibly to the person I
wished to suggest.— J. H. H.)
6. Com. : Do you remember my squabble with President R. ?
Rec. : Think it is Hyslop.
i See Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXXIV., pp. 12-22, and 24.
570 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(This is pertinent, hut the present tense suggests, especially in the light
of the manner of previous guessing, that it is due, not to memory but
perhaps to mere conjecture. But afterwards the receiver told ine personally
that he did not remember any squabble of mine with the gentleman, though
he and the man I wished to suggest had had such a difficulty, and he thought
it possible that I had had the same experience. It was after all perfectly
pointless guessing, so correct in fact that I could only suppose a marvellous
memory and give up the task. But I tried again.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : I was in the Associated Press.
Rec. : No suggestion.
(Correct, but is entitled to the same answer even from the standpoint of
the receiver's memory as questions that had no pertinence at all. —J. H. H.)
8. Com. : I called at your house and talked over psychology.
Rec. : Hyslop.
(This is correct. But there was nothing in the previous answers to
suggest that it was due to memory, and I found that the particular visit that
I had in mind was actually remembered, though it was quite an obscure
incident, and occurring at a time when I should be little remembered by
any one. I shaped the question so that it might as easily apply to the
receiver's present residence, though it would not be true in that connection,
and had my name not already been in the receiver's mind, the statement
would not have suggested me, because I had not been able to keep a promise
to visit him at his present home. —J. H. H.)
9. Com. : You and I were in P., and both know Dixon Morton.
Rec. : Is it D. M. ?
(The guess here was so correct that it confirmed iny impression and
inference from the mention of my name in connection with this person's
pseudonym mentioned above. I felt sure that the receiver had read the
Proceedings referred to above. But I found, on conversation with him a
few minutes afterward, that he had guessed whom I had in mind only from
the sound of the name ! ! and that he did not know who Dixon Morton was.
But, imagining that my inference was correct, I resolved to close the experi
ment, and telegraphed the following.—J. H. H.) (Cf. pp. 540, 551.)
Com. : Yes.
Rec. : Hyslop.
(This, again, seemed pertinent, and I sent the next telegram to settle
the identity and not to test the receiver. I had intended it as a conclusive
test if some of the others failed, but I threw it in as a finish to the
experiment. But the later conversation, which showed that the receiver
had guessed D. M. only from a certain resemblance between the names—
rather remote in most respects— and hence indicated both that my inference
was incorrect and that the guessing of my name in connection with anything
in the message sent him, except the allusion to acquaintance, was essentially
absurd, and without foundation in memory or suggestion. —J. H. H.)
10. Com. : The baby said nothing.
Rec.: Hyslop. (My assistant adds his remark : "Surely.")
(This was the only perfectly pertinent answer in the whole series, though
I could not have said so until after my personal talk with the receiver. The
incident was one that he could not help referring to me, and the " surely "
XLI.] 571
Appendix IV.
only shows that the judgments were mere guesses and not inductive infer
ences from remembered incidents. The incident, which it is not necessary
to detail, would suggest me to any man who had told the story with
reference to me at an alumni dinner, and the answer is an unquestionable
identification of me, though it adds dubiousness to the pertinence of the
others in spite of their objective correctness.—J. H. H.)
Note 1.—In regard to the receiver's impression, told me ten minutes
after the experiment, that Question 4 had no meaning, and that he had not
sent any reply to it, I have mentioned the record in the telegram sent me.
The record kept by my assistant at the other end also shows that the
receiver's answer was taken and sent.—J. H. H.
Note 2.— I had surmised from the answers in this experiment and also
the first one with the same receiver, that he was not correctly informed of
the nature of it, but that he imagined that he had simply to guess the
relevancy of an incident to some person whom it suggested. On inquiry
this morning (February 3rd) of the man who was with the receiver at the
opposite end of the line, and who was new as an assistant for the purpose of
concealing more effectually the probable or possible person communicating,
I found that he had not made the duty of the receiver perfectly clear. He
reports to me that he had told the receiver the secret nature of certain
features of the experiment—that it was one in recognition, and that he
would receive messages from some one—but that perhaps he did not make it
clear whether the sender was supposed to be necessarily at the other end or
not. Afterward Professor C, during the experiment and soon after it had
started, inquired whether it could be a person who was there or not. Even
this seems not to have evoked any answer sufficiently clear to make the
guesses or inferences what they ought to have been and were intended to be
on my part. This then fully explains the nature of the answers and the
illusion under which I acted from the answers sent.
Nevertheless, though the experiment does not illustrate what I wished
to show, it has an interest of another kind. It shows very clearly on the
side of the receiver just what influence preconception will have upon the
judgment and how many identifications in the Piper case must run this
gauntlet before they are granted any evidential value. On the other hand,
the similar illusion under which I had to act in the interpretation of the
result illustrates the cross purposes under which communications between two
personalities must be conducted when there are either extreme difficulties in
the way of its being effected at all, or similar difficulties in the way of a
ready understanding. There is in this experiment some resemblance to the
confusion in the Piper phenomena where the communications, at least so-
called, show similar misunderstanding, though there we often have the time
and opportunity to correct them. Here I could not do so, as this would
lead to my identity in a way contrary to the object of the experiment.
Further it illustrates well how that confusion may arise in a sitting and
perhaps not be corrected because of the failure to have a second one, and
the consequence is that the case is given up as useless. But when we know the
cause of failure, if that is possible, we might have reason to see that the
facts are at least not opposed to the natural supposition that it is supernormal.
The mistakes and illusions in the experiment here described are perfectly
572 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
natural to both parties in the case and can be definitely determined and
proved, and enable us to say whether the results are good for anything or
not. This is not always so easy, if possible at all, in the Piper instance, but
the difficulties ave of the type here indicated and show that we cannot
form a negative judgment on the ground of them.
In connection with the presence of preconception and its influence on
the receiver and perhaps the communicator as well, there is a more important
resemblance to the Piper case. Here I was endeavouring to suggest another
person than myself and one more intimately associated with the receiver at
the time of the incidents and the place in which they occurred than
myself. Now if we suppose that I was that person and trying to make
myself known to the receiver in the broken way that the Piper incidents
exhibit, it would appear that I utterly failed in this, and only suggested another
person altogether. On the other hand, the receiver, starting out with a false
idea of the limitations under which the inferences were to be made, first
supposes this other person (myself) and with this preconception—created as
much by a knowledge of my connection with the experiment as by the
assumed privilege of supposing any one besides the communicator as the
sender of messages—it was natural to stick to the personality of the one first
thought of, if the incidents mentioned later were consistent with it, and to
discard as irrelevant all matter not consistent with it. Hence the only reason
that any correctness can be attached to the judgments of the receiver, in
the first incidents, is the fact that I had deliberately choseu cases of
an equivocal character, which, some of them at least, were relevant to both
myself and the person I had in mind. The misunderstanding in regard to
the duty of the receiver, the assumption as to possible persons within the
limits of the guessing, and the preconception established by the first supposi
tion prevented any suggestibility being found in the incidents intended to
suggest the identity of another person altogether. This illustrates
many incidents in the Piper phenomena, and we have to be as careful about
rejecting it on account of these failures as in accepting it on the ground
of its successes
GROUP A.—X.
New York, Febnmry Ut, 1899.
Communicator : Professor Hyslop. Receiver : Miss S.
1. Com. : I knew you in Barnard.
(No reply.)
2. Com. : I saw you at a reception on 74th Street.
(No reply.)
3. Com. : Do you remember a man in Ethics who tried to corner the
teacher on the antecedent probability of miracles ?
(No reply.) (Remark to assistant : "Don't remember." )
(There was only one other lady in the class to which I refer, and which
was conducted by myself. The question refers to a rather sharp a priori
reascner, and the interest with which the members of the class and especially
Miss S. watched me in my reply to the man's questions. —J. H. H.)
XLI.] 573
Appendix IV.
4. Com. : Do you know Miss E. ? (Name given in full in message.)
(No reply.) (Remark to assistant : "Yes.")
5. Com. : What other lady was in the class mentioned in Question 3 1
(No reply.) (Remark to assistant : " Still don't remember. ")
6. Com. : Antithesis.
(No reply.)
(I here mention an obscure class of inferences discussed in my Logic and
with which the lady was acquainted. But I did not expect her at this
stage of the game to guess anything. The word was intended to be only
the first of a number in connection with my work with this lady and designed
to suggest me as communicator. They will be mentioned as the record pro
ceeds.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : I remember you sometimes sat near a gentleman acquaintance
in the class.
(No reply.) (Remark to assistant : " It is not true." )
(This question is vague, and might be taken to refer to the class in
Barnard, in which case the remark would not be true. But I had in mind
another class in Columbia in which the lady was doing post-graduate work.
It was intended in a vague way to suggest that the class was not at Barnard,
where only ladies attend. The answer, or rather remark, to the assistant
shows no tendency to break up a preconception.—-J. H. H.)
8. Com. : What were the circles for in the class in Logic 1
Rec. : I've passed in Logic.
9. Com. : Two and two make four.
(No reply. )
(This statement was intended to suggest, by an illustration in my post
graduate claas used to discuss certain problems in connection with the
theory of Intuitionism, that I might be the communicator. But it had no
effect.—J. H. H.)
10. Com. : Do you remember any walks in Central Park and what we
talked about ?
(A wild question intended merely as a diversion and not representing any
true incident between me and the receiver. —J. H. H.)
Rec. : I took many walks there.
Com. : Mention two or three.
Rec. : Go ahead.
11. Com. : Do you know Felix Adler ?
Rec. : Yes.
(I had to put this question cautiously, as I did not know whether the lady
had had any other knowledge of him than that in reference to an incident
that had occurred between herself and myself. The next question then was
shaped to connect with this, which it was safe to put in spite of the " Yes "
that I got in the reply.—J. H. H.)
12. Com. : I remember you were interested once in the free-will
controversy.
Rec. : I think you are a class-mate.
13. Com. : Do you remember where you stood at the graduation exercises
in Carnegie Hall ?
574 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Roc. : To right side of the steps of the platform. Did I dance with
you at the reception ?
Com. : I think not.
Rec. : Do I know you socially ?
Com. : That depends on what you mean by social.
(This answer sent back by myself was the question which I always ask
a student when I wish to know what a question seeks to know. It is a
demand for definition, and I thought it would suggest my habits at least
indefinitely. But it suggested nothing.—J. H. H.)
14. Com. : What was Miss S 's advice on that matter of some
importance to you 1
(This question pertained to an important matter between me and the
receiver and the lady mentioned in the message, and, though vague, was one
intended to lead up to more definite ones.—J. H. H.)
Rec. : HaVe you ever called on me !
Com. : You find out.
15. Coin. : An immediate process.
(No reply.)
(This phrase was one by which I constantly expressed my position in
the Theory of Knowledge which Miss S. attended during different years
in my advanced class, and only a short time before with much frequency.
—J. H. H.)
16. Com. : Was it James' or Baldwin's Psychology we had i
Rec. : You are a girl.
17. Com. : Do you remember any ghost stories that were told in the class i
Rec. : Plenty.
Com. : Mention one, and if I can I shall say more.
Rec. : Can't remember any in particular, nor can you.
Com. : Do you recall the one with the scar that was on the face of the
ghost ? Man lived in Boston, but was out West when he saw his sister.
Rec. : Don't recall ; be more definite.
(This question was put because there has been much fun outside the
classes about my ghost stories in discussing psychical research. The question
is equivocal, but the mention of a specific one ought to have created a
suspicion. —J. H. H.)
18. Com. : Do you ever read the hiti rnatiowd Journal of Ethics!
Rec. : Seldom.
(This question, coming after the previous one, was intended to suggest
myself, because I had been instrumental in having the lady offer a paper to
that journal for publication. It was sent to Professor Adler. The query is
vague, and connected with questions 11, 12 and 14. —J. H. II.)
19. Com. : Conversion and Fallacies. You must pass Logic again.
Rec. : Go ahead.
(The object of this question is explained in the note to question 6. —
J. H. H.)
20. Com. : What work in experimental psychology did you do 1
Rec. : It would take too long to tell.
(This question pertains to the same matter as 14 and later incidents and
questions. —J. H. H.)
XLI.] 575
Appendix IV.
21. Com. : C , S , Miss S , B . Important for you.
Rec. : Carpenter.
Com. : Think you are on the right track.
(I started to telegraph that this was wrong on purpose to make the
question more definite, as I saw that suggestions did not appear to make any
impression. But it all at once occurred to me that the name mentioned in the
reply to mine was probably correct in connection with the events that I
wished to suggest by connecting so many names together in my message, as
I vaguely recalled then, and now distinctly, his connection with the affair.
But I sent the answer above both as an intimation that the sender was not
"Carpenter," while I suggested in this dubious way the probably proper
tendency of her mind. But I got the following reply.—J. H. H.)
Rec. : I am not on any track.
22. Coin. : I saw you as you got off a car recently. Intuition.
Rec. : Did I see you 1
Com : Possibly.
(This statement was to remind the receiver of a fact that had occurred a
few days before when she sat on a seat in front of me in a street car, and I
did not look up to see her until she started to leave the car, and then it
was too late to catch her eye. The word " Intuition " was especially apt
in this connection to suggest me, at least as I thought, because I used it
so much in my classes for the three years during her attendance on my
class.—J. H. H.)
23. Com. : What did you come here for to-day ?
Rec. : That's what I'm trying to find out.
(The question was intended to be merely diversionary as a transition to
the next.—J. H. H.)
24. Com. : Felix Adler, International Journal of Ethics, B , Miss
S . What do these names mean together ?
Rec. : A great many people know what that means.
Com. : Do you remember the title to your thesis ? I am not certain
about it.
Rec. : Stop talking about that matter.
(I had put this last question as one that I thought absolutely certain
to put the receiver in mind of me, especially as her answer to 23 showed
that she was on the right track. But it failed.—J. H. H.)
25. Com. : Transcendental unity of apperception.
Rec. : In B 's class.
Com. : No.
(This phrase was one that she would frequently hear in B 's class,
and that some of her class-mates would know well enough, but it was a
common one with me when discussing Kant, and recently, in my course in
the Theory of Knowledge, I had criticised the doctrine of Kant, and pre
sented over and over again my own position in terms of what was expressed
in the word " intuition ' in 22, and the statement of 15. Hence, when I
sent the answer "no" to her question, she ought to have nailed me at
once.—J. H. H.)
26. Com. : Do you remember your trouble with S 1
Rec. : Yes ; stop that. That means nothing.
576 [part
J. H. Hyslop. Ph.D.
27. Com. : Hamilton and Reid.
Rec. : Dr. Hyslop's favourites.
(Here I thought I could soon make myself understood, and put the
next statement to effect it, as it was a phrase that I had used a few days
before a great many times in her presence when discussing certain questions
in the problem of knowledge.—J. H. H.)
28. Com. : Put everything together and draw a " progressive inductive
inference."
Rec. : Don't know. I have no idea.
29. Coin. : Reasoning is a vehicle for the transmission of certitude.
Rec. : Messages like that give me no clue at all.
(This statement of mine was one that I have very often used in the
receiver's presence when showing in the problem of knowledge that the
syllogism merely transmits, but does not originate certitude in regard to its
contents. I had frequently used it when she was present only a short time
before at several lectures.—J. H. H.)
30. Com. : I do not take much stock in "ratiocination."
Rec. : Then you are not Dr. Hyslop.
(This was, of course, the wrong answer, though the term "ratiocination "
and its connection had been recognised and placed rightly, but my doctrine
was absolutely reversed by her, my statement having embodied what I
taught very clearly when showing that the fundamental processes of know
ledge were not mediate or apperceptive. Thus it is clear that the clue
completely failed.—J. H. H.)
31. Com. : You are not good at telepathy.
Rec. : You are not good at suggestion.
(I intended this statement to nail me, as Miss S. knew that I was
interested in this problem, and I hoped with my name in her mind from the
previous question that she would reverse her judgment. But I failed again,
and as the time was up, I made no further attempts to secure identifica
tion.—J. H. H.)
GROUP A.—XI.
New York, February 1st, 1899.
Communicator : Professor K. Receiver : Professor H.
1. Com. : Do you know Farnham ?
Rec. : Professor Sloane.
(Pertinent answer, but wrong. The question represented a mutual
acquaintance, though one that the receiver would not associate closely with
the sender.—J. H. H.)
2. Com. : Is it true that he is married ?
Rec. : The same.
(The question was intended as a diversion because the first guess was too
near the sender to go hastily, and besides the sender knew that this Mr. F.
was not married.—J. H. H.)
3. Com. : Do you remember that fish story you told me in the presence
of Darling ?
XLI.] 577
Appendix IV.
Rec. : Possibly the same. (To assistant : " A staggerer.")
(The question was pertinent to myself, and as I was known by the
receiver to be conducting the experiment it would act as a diversion, and we
at the sender's end of the line knew that the receiver had probably told the
story to many persons, and would not easily remember my presence with
him and Mr. Darling when he once told it. —J. H. H.)
4. Com. : I suppose being a good Episcopalian helped me to my chair
in physics.
Rec. : No clue. All adrift.
(This referred to an intimate friend of the receiver who was connected
with an event to come later, and it was here put as vaguely as possible so
that it might not tell too much.—J. H. H.)
5. Com. : Do you recall that disturbance in Wurzburg, when some one
burst out of the passage way ?
Rec. : Rather suggests Professor R. of T. Question 4 suggests the
same.
(The answer to the question was correct, though this person was not
the sender of the message. — J. H. H.) (Cf. Note, p. 579.)
(i. Com. : Ole Cloes.
Rec. : Still think it R.
(This phrase was one with which the receiver and the sender among
others, and R. in particular, had had much fun, as it alluded to an
experience in Yellowstone Park. But the sender of the message was not
with the receiver when the incident occurred.—J. H. H.)
7. Com : Did I call on you with Farnham ?
(No reply.)
8. Com. : Whom did you meet at Professor W 's lecture at the
American Museum ?
(No reply.)
9. Com. : Zwintscher.
Rec. : Looks like Hyslop himself, but some of the others don't.
(Question 2 might have suggested me, but as it did not, I threw in this
German name alone to see if it would recall the muskale at my house a year
ago, which Professor H. had attended. I wanted both to see the effect
of a specific suggestion such as this name was calculated to bring out and to
indicate in the vaguest way possible the circle of acquaintances within which
the questions and incidents were placed.—J. II. H.)
10. Com. : Geyser Bill.
Rec. : I think that's Professor K. now.
(This was the name by which the sender, among others, called the
receiver after his trip in the Yellowstone Park. The recognition was thus
pertinent, but not yet conclusive.—J. H. H.)
11. Com. : Illch—he's dead, too.
Rec. : That's K.
(The statement here was intended to be a diversion, and represented the
name of a classmate of H. whom K. knew nothing about, but had picked
out of the catalogue for the purpose of diversion. We see in the answer
the effect of preconception.—J. H. H.)
2 p
578 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
12. Com. : That was fine was er gemacht hat—don't you forget it.
Rec. : That's K.
Com. : Try again.
13. Com. : Do you know Fisher Ames ? That was a good entertainment
the other night.
Rec. : May be K. yet.
(The question was one of my own to serve as a diversion in the direction
of the receiver's wife, whose maiden name was thus indirectly suggested,
and it would still be consistent with the knowledge of the sender. This
accounts for the nature of tho reply. Besides, he and his wife had been at
a recent entertainment.—J. H. H.)
Com. : But our fish were fresh.
(No reply. Assistant's note : "The same.")
(The phrase involved a diversion away from both the receiver's wife and
Professor K., and was intended to suggest another professor, who had in
the presence of the receiver used this expression as a very apt repartee to
some guying. No reply coining, we sent the next very pertinent question.
J. H. H.)
14. Com. : Do you remember the ice and mince pie with your wheel ?
Rec. : K. still.
(Correct in so far as the receiver knew that K. was familiar with the
circumstance, but it was not a personal experience of K. in connection with
H. It occurred in the summer when they were far apart, and ought to have
suggested the receiver's wife.—J. H. H.)
15. Com. : Wireless telegraphy.
Rec. : No clue.
(The receiver and myself had talked about this subject a few evenings
before, and I intended to both turn him aside from the sender and to see if
his memory would identify me with the incident. It did not, and I put the
next question to test him again about the same incident, because we had
talked about this subject in the same connection as the previous message
suggests. The two topics were associated. But both failed to disturb the
preconception formed about K. —J. H. H.)
16. Com. : Telepathy.
Rec. : The same party.
17. Com. : Sandwiches and something to drink.
Rec. : 15 and 16 give no clue.
18. Com. . Quid nunc.
Rec. : That's K. pretty sure.
(K. and H. belonged to a club by this name.)
19. Com. : Where did you see me last ?
Rec. : It's K yet.
20. Com. : Wine.
Rec. : That's Hyslop again.
(This answer was correct and refers to the same occasion as Question 17,
by which and this one I hoped to divert the receiver to his wife, who knew
all the facte mentioned and alluded to by K., as she was present and K. was
not on the occasion referred to.—J. H. H.)
XLI.] 579
Appendix IV.
21. Com. : Hier darf ich nicht bleiben, weil mein Name also Kunz ist.
Rec. : Give it up on that.
(This was intended to make sure the recognition, as K. thought H. would
have no doubt about his identity from the phrase, which was one he ought
be familiar with. While we were wondering what to send next, the second
message came as follows.—J. H. H.) (Cf. Q. 10, p. 564, and Q. 3, p. 555.)
Rec. : It's K. I think.
22. Com. : I did not have any of those sandwiches and wine.
Rec. : Well, that's K.
23. Com. : We were at the boat races in 1897, and met after they were
over.
Rec. : Yes, that's K.
(The last statement was sent in order to secure the identity of the
sender, as it was not necessary to continue the experiment further. The
answer was correct.—J. H. H.)
GROUP A.—XII.
New York, January 31st, 1899.
Communicator : Mr. McW. Receiver : Dr. F.
1. Com. : Is it not Dr. F., of Columbia University 1
Rec. : Yes.
2. Com. : I met you first several years ago.
Rec. : Did I meet you in New York City 1
Com. : Yes.
3. Com. : I heard you talking of some experiment you had performed.
Rec. : Did I meet you in Columbia ?
4. Com. : Did you graduate from Princeton in 1890 ?
Rec. : No, in '88.
5. Com. : Do you still get your brains from the P. and S. ?
Rec. : Did you hear me describing the experiment in a lecture ?
Com. : Yes.
Rec. : Were you one of my students ?
Com. : Guess again.
6. Com. : Do you still teach Psychology, or have you adopted a new line
of work ?
Rec. : Have we seen each other constantly since we first met ?
Com. : No.
7. Com. : Don't you remember when we dined together about two
years ago t
Rec. : Did you dine with me, or did I dine with you ?
Com. : 1 dined with you.
Rec. : Is your name McW. ?
Com. : Try again.
Rec. : Was the lecture you heard me give a public or a college
lecture ?
Com. : I heard you give several.
2 p 2
580 [part
J. H. Hylsop, Ph.D.
8. Com. : Are you going with Lumholtz to Mexico on his next tour 1
Rec. : Are you connected with the college now 1
Com. : You must find out.
9. Com. : I have read your article in the Psychulogical Review.
Rec. : Did you dine with me at my club f
Com. : No.
10. Com. : Did you see me at the last Thanksgiving football match !
(Question intended as a diversion.)
Rec. : Did we dine alone or were there any others with us ?
Com. : Others.
11. Com. : Do you remember when we cut up those pigeons ?
Rec. : Is your name Franz ?
Coin. : Try again.
12. Com. : Don't you remember that we performed experiments together?
Rec. : Did we know each other well ?
Com. : It is a question of opinion.
13. Com. : When I dined with you my sister had scarlet fever.
Rec. : I am pretty sure your name is McW.
14. Com. : You afterward published the results of the experiments I
mentioned.
Rec. : Your name is McW.
(This was correct, and as the assurance was satisfactory there was no
further need for diversion.—J. H. H.)
GROUP A.—XIII.
New York, February 1nt, 1899.
Communicator : Dr. J. Receiver : Mr. M. ■
1. Com. : I believe this is Mr. M., of Columbia. Are you a student or
an instructor ?
Rec. : Go ahead.
(Receiver remarks to me : " That rules me out. He does not know me
evidently." The receiver thus evidently thought he had to deal with some '
one he did not know, and so wisely sent the reply mentioned. —J. H. H.)
2. Com. : In what department are you working and where is your
office i
Rec. : Political science. (Question a diversion.)
3. Com. : You must have a fine view from your windows.
Rec. : True, Dr. Marvin knows that.
(The sender says in regard to this statement: "I have discussed the
view from Mr. M.'s window a number of times." But the person mentioned
in the reply was not the sender.—J. H. H.)
4. Com. : Attendez encore ! Parlez-vous francos ?
Rec. : Suggests nothing.
(The statement was made in French because the receiver met Mr. J., who
is a teacher in that language, at the sender's rooms.—J. H. H.)
XLI.] 581
Appendix IV.
5. Com. : Do you remember having gone down town with me on the
Elevated about a year ago 1
Rec. : No.
(Receiver- remarks to me: "But that puts him in a certain class of
persons." The sender afterward tells me that the incident did not occur as
a fact, and that the question was put partly as a diversion and partly to find
how the receiver would guess.—J. H. H.)
6. Com. : Did you hear Professor Giddings lecture before the Political
Science Association on Expansion ? It was a good lecture. Do you think
he will print it ?
(No reply.) (Receiver remarks to me : "That suggests some one who
did not read the Political Science Quarterly. For the article has already
been published." The sender, however, intended a diversion by it, though
he had discussed the lecture with the receiver.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : Do you know where Kelly has gone ? I hear he is no longer
in Columbia.
(No reply.) (Receiver remarks to ine : " That might be a clue on cer
tain conditions. In fact, there are three clues in it." The sender observes
in his explanation of question that he had talked with the receiver about this
person a few days before, but did not know him personally. —J. H. H.)
8. Coin. : Where is Whitte this year ?
(No reply.) (Receiver remarks : " Suggests a fellow-student." The
sender explains that he had been speaking to receiver about the person
mentioned in message only a few days ago. He was a student in the Depart
ment of Political Science.—J. H. H.)
9. Com. : I once met you in Central Park. Do you walk there often ?
Rec. : Suggests J. very strongly. [Correct.—J. H. H.]
Com. : Try again.
(Receiver remarks : " I did meet J. there once about three weeks ago."—
J. H. H.)
10. Com. : I believe you came from one of the western states. Did you
take your college course there 1
(Receiver remarks : " Suggests nothing.")
11. Coin. : Have you seen many operas this year ?
(No reply.) (Receiver remarks : " Suggests J. I had a conversation
with him about operas in this room." The sender comments that he had
mentioned to receiver in this conversation that he himself, the sender, had
gone to one or two of them.—J. H. H.)
12. Com. : I think you know a Mr. Washington who was at Columbia for
a while. Do you know where he is now ?
Rec. : That suggests J. I had a letter from Washington to-day.
(Receiver remarks : "That would make it almost definite that it is J."
Mr. M., the receiver, was one of W.'s best friends, and the latter was also
a close friend of the sender. —J. H. H.)
Com. : Guess again.
13. Com. : Do you remember our discussion in regard to trusts ?
(No reply.) (Receiver remarks : " Suggests nothing except that he
might have attended Goodnow's lecture before the Academy of Political
582 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Science." The sender explains that he had no special object in sending this
message except as a diversion.—J. H. H.)
14. Com. : What is the make of your wheel ? I think you advised me to
get one.
Rec. : Suggests J. again.
(Receiver remarks that this incident regarding the advice had occurred
between them. - J. H. H.)
15. Com. : Do you think orthodoxy is a requirement in a teacher of
philosophy in a western college ?
Rec. : Suggests J. again.
(Receiver then remarks: "This was another circumstance in a con
versation with J. The evidence is accumulative in favour of him." The
sender also explains that he had talked over this subject with the receiver
about two weeks before.—J. H. H.)
16. Com. : Shall you be in your office to-morrow ? You are rather hard
to find.
Rec. : The same.
(The sender explains that he had frequently gone to M.'s room and
failed to find him there, and that M. knew the fact.—J. H. H.)
17. Com. : I doubt it.
(No reply.) (Statement a diversion.—J. H. H.)
18. Com. : Have you read Professor Hyslop's new book ? What are your
criticisms ?
Rec. : Suggests the same person.
(Sender explains that he had talked this book over with receiver several
times.—J. H. H.)
19. Com. : Do we have a holiday on February 13th ?
Rec. : The same.
(Sender says that the question was a vague one, though pertinent. —
J. H. H.)
20. Com. : That last lecture of yours on American Political Theory was
very interesting.
Rec. : Suggests nothing.
(Receiver then adds to me : "Except another clue on another trail."
Sender comments that the statement was a diversion to change the trail.—
J. H. H.)
21. Com.: When do you give your examination ? Who am I now 1
(No reply.) (Receiver remarks : "Does not suggest anything, unless
it is a subterfuge of J." The sender explains that M., the receiver, had
spoken to him a few days before about an examination, the time of which
he, the receiver, did not know.—J. H. H.)
22. Com. : Will you come to the laboratory next Saturday morning ?
(No reply.) (Receiver remarks: "Suggests nothing." Sender
remarked afterwards that the query was only a diversion.—J. H. H.)
23. Com. : Has Professor Burgess recovered ! Should like to meet him
some time.
Rec. : J.
(Receiver remarks : "I had a conversation with J. about this. I have
talked with others also about the same thing."—J. H. H.)
XLI.] 583
Appendix IV.
24. Com. : Do you recall our walk last week along Riverside Drive ?
Rec. : It's J.
(Receiver remarks : " Wo took a walk two weeks ago along this drive
and discussed the subject of colleges."—J. H. H.)
25. Com. : What are you willing to wager ?
Rec. : I would hang you on that if nothing more was before me.
(This being the correct person and satisfactory assurance of it having
been obtained, the experiment did not require to be carried further.—
J.H.H.)
GROUP A.—XIV.
New York, February 2nd, 1899.
Communicator : Mr. B. Receiver : Professor C.
1. Com. : We have seen each other in several places during past years.
Rec.: (No reply.) (Remark to assistant : " Nothing suggested.")
2. Com. : Elizabethtown. [Diversion by myself.—J. H. H.]
Rec. : (No reply.) (Remark to assistant: "Nothing suggested. I
have seen Hyslop himself in Elizabethtown.")
(This remark about seeing me in the town of this name is not strictly
correct. Year before last we had travelled on the cars together as far as
Westport, and parted there, C. going to place named for the summer and I
twelve miles further, though through Elizabethtown, to spend the vacation
in Keene Valley. But C. did not see me in place named. He only knew
that I passed through it. —J. H. H.)
3. Com. : I got the man you met in the mountains to lunch with you.
(No reply. ) (Remark to assistant : " Nothing suggested.")
(There is a very remote connection between this statement and the name
of Elizabethtown. The latter was mentioned in the previous question in
order to put the mind of the receiver in general connection with the place
in which he had spent his vacation, both at the time suggested by the name
of the town and the following summer when he met the man who was in
the mind of the sender in the third message. The sender had intro
duced him to the receiver in the manner here intimated. —J. H. H.)
4. Com. : The necrology of Andover Seminary.
(No reply.) (Receiver remarks to assistant: "That concerns my
father. It is not identified with other things at all.")
(The sender telegraphed it purposely in order to remind receiver of
his father, and to suggest that it came from some one who knew of his
father's work on that subject. The phrase did not suggest this, though it
did suggest the father rightly, as it must have done in the case.—J. H. H.)
5. Com. : Do you like punch ?
Rec. : Punch, the newspaper 1
Com. : Any old punch.
(This question was put as an obscure way of intimating an incident in the
lives of the two men when they were at Harvard. They had a good deal of
fun about some punch when Mr. (Sough lectured in Cambridge on temper
ance. Wo put the case in this equivocal way to see how it would work, and
584 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
though it led to no immediate identification, it reminded the receiver clearly
enough of the need of distinguishing between the paper and some incident
he could recall.—J. H. H.)
6. Com. : How do you like the Duchess of Amelia 1
Rec. : VVas Chubb the man you got to lunch with me 1
Com. : Try again.
(Mr. B. did not understand the meaning of this inquiry, nor did I at the
time, as I supposed that C. had in mind some one who had introduced
a person by this name. Afterward C. told ine that while in the mountains
I had brought together a Mr. Chubb and himself, and hence that he
supposed 1 might be the communicator. With this reminder I recalled the
circumstance that I had introduced Mr. Chubb to C., but I had wholly
forgotten it.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : Have you heard of Hobson ?
(No reply.) (The question was intended to be equivocal, and in this
deliberate confusion of the name of an intimate classmate with that of the
present popular hero to see how the receiver's impressions would be influ
enced. But it was evidently too obscure. —J. H. H.)
8. Com. : Were we not congratulated for being temperate 1
Rec. : Hyslop suggested by 1, 2, and 3, but no one since.
(This question refers to the same events and time that are associated
with 5. The persons in this group at Harvard were often the subjects of
much fun on this topic. The answer in reference to me is pertinent. —
J. H. H.)
9. Com. : Well, they aren't so darned sweet.
Rec. : Some one accustomed to my conversations and habits.
10. Com. : Did you enjoy our lunch at the Players' Club ?
Rec. : The tone suggests Perry. But facts don't agree.
(Question pertinent to sender as well as name of person mentioned n
reply.)
11. Com. : Who is chairman of that Committee ?
Rec. : Wheeler suggested, but facts don't agree.
(Question pertinent also to sender, as they had often served on certain
committees.)
12. Com. : I have worked with you on committees.
(No reply.) (Receiver remarks to assistant : " Doesn't mean any
thing except to narrow it in a way to be applicable to Perry and Wheeler.'')
13. Com. : Booty.
Rec. : That would be more like Wheeler and Perry. The tone is
Perry's.
(The fact is that this is the name which C.'s little child gives one of his
assistants in his college work. —J. H. H.)
14. Com. : That's the worst I ever went anywhere.
(No reply. ) (This was a phrase that a particular friend and class-mate
at college had used, and it had always amused C. very much for its oddness
and drollery, and Mr. B. was familiar with C.'s repetition of it, and was
associated with both persons.—J. H. H.)
15. Com. : Do you remember Clarence Walter Vail ?
XLl.] 585
Appendix IV.
Rec. : It's not Wheeler. (Remarks to assistant: "I was talking to
some one about that man the other day.")
(Mr. B. had talked to 0. about this man before his appointment as
assistant in their department, and one other person at the same time. The
policy adopted was against B.'s advice.— J. H. H.)
16. Com. : That is defended.
Rec. : Still like Perry. (Remarks to assistant : " B. might have
known about those things. I have forgotten him.")
(The phrase was one used in Paris by C. and B. with anothe r person
when they were there together some years ago. They had much fun about
it. The French was : il est defendn, the equivalent of the German
verbnten.—J. H. H.)
17. Com. : That wine is good to drink.
Rec. : That might be B.
(This was, of course, correct, and if the remark made by receiver to
assistant in 0]uestion 16 had been sent to the communicator, the 17th question
would in all probability not have been sent, as it embodied an expression
which the receiver had used in Paris on occasions when the wine used at
meals was drinkable.—J. H. H.)
18. Com. : If we start it will rain, if we do not, it will not rain.
(No reply.) (The sentence was one that I had sent to the receiver over
the telephone during the last summer in the mountains when the prospect of
a rain spoiled a projected tramp among the mountains. I had especially
remembered it because I was struck with hearing his whispered laugh over
the telephone at the time and being astonished at it, as it was only the third
time that I had ever talked over a telephone. I wanted to test the receiver's
memory and identification of myself. But nothing came of it. The receiver
said to me afterward that he thought of something in the mountains, but
could not locate it exactly.—J. H. H.)
19. Com. : Benedict.
(No reply.) (This was the name of a man whom C. met in the moun
tains, and I hoped to divert him from B. and to recall myself indirectly. The
name would more distinctly suggest Professor Thomas, whom receiver had
met at the same hotel and to whom reference was made in question 3. But
it failed.—J. H. H.)
20. Com. : How is your friend Jaccachi ?
Rec. : That is more like Perry. (Pertinent to B. also.)
21. Com. : Have you seen any cranes lately ?
Rec. : Still sounds like Perry.
(The term "cranes" was connected with a standing joke between several
persons, of whom the communicator was one.—J. H. H.)
22. Com. : How long since you smoked your first ci^ar ?
(No reply.) (Remarks to assistant : "Going off again.") (The sender
expected this to suggest him at once, as he was present on the occasion
indicated.—J. H. H.)
23. Com. : "K.O.A."
Rec. : Well, the only man That sounds like B.
(This was the name of a Society to which the two belonged.—J. H. H.)
24. Com. : I shall meet you in 4 Hollis next commencement.
586 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Rec. : I should say B.
(This had been the place where the two had been together at college.—
J. H. H.)
25. Com. : Went.
Rec. : That would be B. also.
(This was the name of a friend who was one of two with B. in Paris
together with C. and connected with earlier questions that do not require to
be mentioned again.—J. H. H.)
The answer was correct.
GROUP A.—XV.
Xew York, February 1st, 1899.
Communicator : Mrs. B. Receiver : Professor B.
The present experiment has more resemblances to the report of the
phenomena recorded regarding Mrs. Piper than any other that I performed.
I felt that I could give it that character more safely than before, because I
could assume that the receiver was familiar enough to understand the style
of messages to be sent, and the results proved that in that respect I was not
mistaken. There was one mistake on the part of my assistant at the
receiver's end of the line, due to an earnest but mistaken caution that failed
to make perfectly clear what the receiver was to do. My intention was that
he should know that he was not only to identify any one that the incidents
recalled, but also to decide finally and assuredly who was sending the
messages. In this case the receiver did not clearly understand that he was
to infer who was sending the telegrams. Hence the result was a failure in
this respect, though the experiment has a value of another kind. The
failure is not wholly due to the misunderstanding mentioned, as the identifi
cation of others intended by the incidents mentioned was correct, and only
the improbability that Mrs. B. should be present kept her out of the range
of suggestion. She should have been as readily suggested as the persons
actually named, and no doubt would have been had not the slight misunder
standing alluded to occurred. The experiment, nevertheless, has an interest
for features that will come under notice in their place.
1. Com. : I know you, I know I do. You will be surprised to find me
here. I hope to see you after this some time.
(No reply.)
2. Com. : Oh ! I forget one thing. It will come. Yes. Do you
remember the teachers' college at—1 forget where.
(Receiver remarks to assistant : " Possibly Hervey, but ' I forget where '
makes it impossible.' )
3. Com. : Do you remember the periodical in the junior year, which
showed " United we stand ; divided we fall" < Great Scott !
Rec. : Suggests a man in my class—Arrowsmith.
(The suggestion was correct, and the person named was the one Mrs. B.
had in mind when she gave the incident. —J. H. H.)
Com. : Try again.
xLL] Appendix IV. 587
4. Com. : Archie, Archie. You know Archie. He left . . you.
came . . .
Rec. : Arrowsmith again or Crosby.
(The incident that wo had in mind, suggested by myself, was Professor
B. 's succession to the chair in philosophy and the name of his predecessor,
somewhat as a diversion. The idea seems not to have been caught.—J. H. H. )
5. Com. : S . . . r . . knew you, am glad ... I am forgetting.
Rec. : No clue.
(The letters here were part of the name of the receiver's sister and
daughter, and the nonsense was thrown in to show incoherence. —J. H. H.)
6. Com. : I hope to make it clear. I am satisfied that I can.
Rec. : No clue.
(This was a mere diversion of the same kind as the previous message
imitating the Piper phenomena.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : Brooklyn wedding. You acted as best man.
Rec. : Suggests H. T. Peck. (Correct. This was the person in the
mind of the sender.)
8. Com. : O . . rg . . . I am forgetting. O . . . . an. Oh ! yes,
grin . . der.
Rec. : Suggests nothing.
(This was a simulation of the attempt to say something about an incident
respecting an " organ grinder " which it was possible that the receiver would
recall. But it was not recognised. )
9. Com. : Now I think I can say what I tried a moment ago. S . . r . . h
. . . am here . . . not remember. Oh, yes. You remember me.
S . . . r . . h S y . . .
Rec. : Nothing.
(This was in part a repetition of the attempt to suggest the name of
" Sarah Schuyler "—a pseudonym—the receiver's sister-in-law. The effect
is apparent in the receiver's reply.—J. H. H.)
10. Com. : Do you know John B. !
Rec. : Suggests Mr. Pine.
(Suggestion correct, and the question was asked merely as a diversion
before the next, which was to complete what was continued in the last.
—J. H. H.)
11. Com. : It is Sa . . . . h S . . h . . . . 1 . . r.
Rec. : Suggests that Sarah Schuyler may be sending. Number 5
suggests the same.
(This was the correct interpretation. —J. H. H.)
12. Com. : Well . . . glad to see you, H . . r . . y R . . le. You
know ine.
Rec. : (Remarks to assistant, " If the number of dots is right, it
suggests no one.")
(This is an interesting remark, as there is no doubt that the number of
dots in the original message may have been misleading. But the name
intended was that of an intimate friend. —J. H. H.)
13. Com. : Dear me I Do you ... I forget. Yes, yes. I love her.
She is yours. But she is not here. He . . . . t . . d . . 1 . . gh . .
Rec. : Suggests nothing.
588 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(The name was intended to be that of the receiver's daughter, or, rather,
the pet name given her, only partly spelt out.—J. H. II.)
. 14. Com. : Green . . . gone . . . comea . . . parrot. Cup
. tea . . . London.
Rec. Suggests nothing.
(The full message would have been : A green parrot and a cup of tea
in London," representing an incident which the receiver would be supposed
to have recognised at once and located the sender.—J. H. H.)
15. Com. : Juanita.
(No reply. ) (The word was intended to suggest in a dark way Mrs.
B.'a sister, whom they called "Nita."—J. H. H.)
16. Com. : Do you remember the concert aud college songs, Nita ?
Rec. : Suggests D. L. Haigh.
(Suggestion correct. —J. H. H.)
17. Com. : Sir Joshua's parrot greets you.
Rec. : Some incident suggested by 13 and 14, but no person suggested.
(This was held until the 17th was sent. —J. H. H.)
(The incident was that of some amusement caused by a parrot in London
when only Mrs. B. and Professor B.'s sister were present with him.—
J. H. H.)
18. Com. : Do you remember the mouse hunt and the purchase necessary
to catch them 1
Rec. : Incident suggested, but no person.
19. Com. : Thirteen hats and one bonnet, and an ocean trip.
Rec. : No person suggested.
(As the previous question had been intended to narrow down the guess
ing to Mrs. B. and Professor B.'s sister, this last was intended to narrow
it down to Mrs. B. herself. The incidents were evidently remembered, but
the probability that I should have secured the presence of Mrs. B. was so
slight to the receiver that, with the understanding of the experiment not so
clear as I had intended it, no suggestion of Mrs. B. seems to have occurred.
—J. H. H.) (Cf. Q. 3, p. 555 ; Q. 10, p. 564 ; and Q. 11, 13, 15, p. 560.)
20. Com. : I am here. Co . . in . . e E. Ca . . 1 . . n.
(No reply.) (This is the pseudonym for the full name, only partly
spelt out, of Mrs. B. It would be "Corinne E. Catlin."—J. H. H.)
GROUP A.—XVI.
New York, February 2nd, 1899.
Communicator : Professor P. Receiver : Professor B.
The feature of this experiment which should be remarked before using
it for any purposes of inference so important as the others is that it had to
be performed under limitations that did not affect some of the others. I
had but half an hour to perform it. This necessitated more haste in the
formation of the messages The success was thus bound to be accomplished
more easily than in others. There was a better understanding of the nature
of the experiment than the evening before when the same person acted as
XLI.] 589
Appendix IV.
receiver. The incidents sent this time, owing to the short allotment of time
at command, also assured more ready clues to identity, though there is one
interest in the result that is useful in spite of this fact. It is the spontaneous
discovery by the receiver of the cumulative force of certain incidents
after the clue is detected, which was not suggested at first.
1. Com. : The way is clear. I shall see you. I am glad to know you
are here. You and Mrs. B. called on me some time ago.
Rec. : Suggests .7. B. Reynolds.
(The statement was not intended to give any special suggestion, but only
as a start to the experiment, and though it had statements in it that were
true regarding the sender, who expected, for instance, to see the receiver in
half-an-hour, and had called on him some months previously, yet the mes
sage was not designed to recall any one in particular. —J, H. H.)
2. Com. : I first saw you at your graduation, and have watched your
career with the interest of a sympathetic human heart.
Rec. : Professor P.
(Incident and identification correct.)
3. Com. : The waves washed over my back and you only laughed.
Rec. : Nothing suggested.
4. Com.: Yes. . . . I cannot think. . . . Oh! do you. . . .
B . . s . . . . e know si r. No, your sist ....
Rec. : Nothing suggested.
(This incoherent message was sent both to test whether the letters would
suggest the receiver's sister and to serve as a diversion from the answer to
the second question, when the next which was to be pertinent for the same
person should be sent. —J. H. H.)
5. Com. : Years and seas have separated us, but it made no difference, E.
Rec. : Nothing suggested.
(The letter "E" in this message was the initial of the first part of the
sender's name, and the reference of the whole sentence merely a general one
to their friendship, which had been connected with their experiences as
suggested by statement.— J. H. H.)
6. Com. : I stabbed my enemy and still you laughed.
Rec. : Nothing suggested.
(This statement refers to an incident which had occurred between sender
and receiver when the sender was struggling with a fish. The receiver
played some trick on the sender and laughed at him. The suggestive feature
was intended to be mainly in the term "laugh," as also found in question
3.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : I laboured under a heavy load and still you laughed. ...... y.
Rec. : Nothing suggested.
(The sender was once carrying a heavy load of wood on his back and the
receiver laughed at him in a way about which the two had some fun. The
letter "y " was the last one in sender's name. —J. H. H.)
8. Com. : I had your portrait made, but you knew it not.
Rec. : Nothing suggested.
(Each had taken a picture of the other without the other's knowledge of
it at the time.—J. H. H.)
590 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
9. Com. : Do you ... I forget. Oh ! here it comes. Our friend
Mr. D What did you say 1 Dun No,
it's gone.
Rec. : Nothing suggested.
(There are here vague hints of a name recalling an intimate circumstance
in the lives of the sender and receiver.—J. H. H.)
10. Com. : I'll try again. D. U. N. V. I. L. L. E. Good . . .
Rec. : P .
(This message is a completion and more distinct suggestion of what was
intended in the previous one.—J. H. H.)
11. Com. : Chicken— a fowl of any age. Baedeker. Wasn't that funny ?
Rec. : P .
(Receiver remarks to assistant: "Now 6 suggests P ." Then on
being asked whether any person was suggested by other questions, the
answer was "that 6, 7, 5 and 3 suggest P . )
(This is correct and illustrates one of the objects of the experiments very
clearly, which was to see the spontaneous effect of cumulative incidents on
the judgment, in this case started by the discovery of a connection between
11 and 6, and completed after suggestion to look for more. —J. H. H.)
12. Com. : Forbes' messes.
Rec. : Recognised, but confuses me.
(This incident was intended to be the climax of the experiment, but
there was some doubt in spite of that fact. There was, however, no
further time for its continuance,—J. H. H.) (Gf. Q. 19, p. 588.)
GROUP A.—XVII.
New York, February 2nd, 1899.
Communicator : Mr. W. Receiver : Mr. D.
(In this experiment I record notes that are fuller in regard to the different
points of view of sender and receiver than any that have yet been indicated.
It will make clearer what occurred in some others or perhaps in all of them,
though it is not necessary to record all of them with this detail. The answers
sufficiently indicate the general difference of apperception mass in the two
subjects. But this case is especially interesting in this regard, because the
receiver thought that the experiment was one carried on by the man at his
side, Mr. F., who was only an assistant in the experiment. This helped to
keep the suggestive nature of some questions in a broader field, as was
desired. -J. II. H.)
1. Com. : Ten years ago we were much out of sympathy in several points.
(No reply.) (Remark : " No one suggested.")
(The same answer is given to the first five questions. —J. H. H.)
Note by Com. : At that time we were not acquainted, but were
attending rival colleges, A. and D.
Note by Rec. : No. 1 is in general absolutely undenotative ; from
W.'s viewpoint, misleading, he being unknow n to me ten years ago.
XLI ] 591
Appendix IV.
2. Com. : But later we got together much more.
(No reply.)
Note by Com. : Later we both went to Harvard.
Note by Rec. : Indefinite.
3. Com. : There have been many coincidences in our lives, but there is
one striking contrast.
(No reply.)
Note by Com. : The coincidences are : The same colleges, Harvard
and Columbia ; the same general line of study ; many courses taken
together ; many points of common interest ; class trips together ; the same
college fraternity. Contrast : He is married, I am not.
Note by Rec. : Common circumstances indefinite.
4. Com. : I was once in a room with you alone. We talked about an
hour or two.
(No reply.)
Note by Com. : True, but felt that it was common with others also.
Note by Rec. : Mr. F. represented this affair (unintentionally) as his
research, and I had no notion that any one else not present with me was
concerned. The presumption then made F. naturally the focus of conscious
ness until replaced. The circumstance suggested was a common one in a
psychological laboratory. I could think of no occasion on which the circum
stance coincided with F. in particular.
5. Com. : We have a young friend who is making quite a name for
himself.
(No reply.)
Note by Com. : Statement refers to Dr. Th., who was with us at
Harvard.
Note by Rec. : Indefinite, but a common circumstance.
6. Com. Do you still insist on raising the window on a cold winter's day ?
Rec. : That suggests several people.
Note by Com. : This was characteristic of Mr. D., and he did it in
the Seminar room a few weeks ago and at other times when I remonstrated
with him.
Note by Rec. : This suggested members of the family who care for
more heat than myself.
7. Com. : Do you expect that Associateship ?
Rec. : That suggests F., or possibly my wife.
Note by Com. : I had in mind a position in a pathological institution,
while I recognised that Mr. D. might think of something else of which I
knew, though I had not talked with him about the case he would have in
mind. The question was general.
Note by Rec. : Distinctly pointed towards F. , he besides two or three
(whose connection with this research was improbable) alone knowing my
plans in this regard. W., as I supposed, was quite ignorant of them.
8. Coin. : Are you going to Nova Scotia again next summer 1 I know
of some pleasant villages on the Jersey coast and Long Island.
Rec. : Surely F.
Note by Com. : F. had talked with Mr. D. about this, and I also
592 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
about Nova Scotia, but not about New Jersey. I intended the suggestion
to be remote.
Note by Rec. : A recent conversation with F. about Nova Scotia
naturally associated him with this question. The latter part of it was
especially suggestive of F., W. being concerned in neither to any such
extent, and in the latter part not at all.
9. Com. : I once heard you deliver a lecture from the platform.
Rec. : It suggests F. Not literally true.
Note by Com. : I heard D. read a paper before the Seminar at
Harvard. When he did so he stepped upon the platform. The word
"lecture" here was deliberately chosen for diversion and ambiguity, the
stress being upon "platform," that feature not being in the Seminar room
at Columbia.
Note by Rec. : Statement untrue of any one. I never delivered what
would properly be called a "lecture." There was no reason why it should
suggest F. , save the present apperception mass and habit.
10. Com. : Do you remember riding in a 'bus with a crowd of men on
a cold day ?
Rec. : I remember having done that several times.
Note by Com. : The class under Professor James at Harvard went
out to Danvers to visit the Asylum for the insane there, and D. was with us
at the time.
Note by Rec. : This recalled events with which no one possibly
conceivable could have any relation. The instance referred to by W. was
not recalled, having made no impression.
11. Com. : You once invited me to your home.
Rec. : That's F.
Note by Com. : True ; but I did not go.
Note by Rec. : F. took lunch with me at my home very recently ;
W., although invited some time ago, has said nothing about it recently.
12. Com. : I was with you once when you were having a good deal of
trouble with a machine.
Rec. : That's F.
Note by Com. : True ; the experiment was last fall, and such an
incident might apply to several persons.
Note by Rec. : F., being Assistant in the college, would naturally be
suggested by this, though it was not memory that prompted my reply.
No special incident was suggested.
13. Com. : That was an elegant beef-steak.
Rec. : F. sure.
Note by Com. : I was aware that this applied to F., and not to myself.
Note by Rec. : F. and I had a beef-steak on a special lunch occasion to
which this refers, and the statement, so far as W. is concerned, is distinctly
misleading. I never had a steak with W., though he had heard F. speak
of it.
14. Com. : You once put me through some Sloyd gymnastics.
Rec. : That suggests several.
Note by Com. : True ; the experiment applied to several and was
performed last fall.
XLI.] 593
Appendix IV.
Note by Rec. : Suggested several men whom I had as subjects in a
research including gymnastics—seven or eight men. F. was not one of
them ; W. was.
15. Com. : I once asked a famous man a question at your desire.
Rec. : Several possibilities. F most probable.
Note by Com. : Receiver once requested me to ask Professor Bowditch
about flexor and extensor muscles.
Note by Rec. : I have no idea even now of the incident, if not
misleading, referred to. The only reason for the association of it with F. was
my habits and the present apperception mass.
16. Com. : Some of my friends lived in your wife's town.
Rec. : That's F.
Note by Com. : D. and myself were talking about this a short
time ago.
Note by Rec. : This referred to a few remarks once made by some one
and myself, and habit made it seem like F. rather than W. I could not
recall which of the two.
17. Com. : Do you remember a refined lady who talked with us very
sweetly on religious themes 1
Rec. : It suggests nothing.
Com. : It was on the top of a hill.
(No reply.)
Note by Com. : This was a true and specific incident with which D.
and I alone were connected besides the lady, and was intended to suggest me
beyond doubt. It also represents an incident on the occasion denoted by
question 10.
Note by Rec. : This suggested no one and no incident. It was
obviously misleading. (Cf. Q. 12, p. 590, etc.)
(The receiver recalls, however, since writing this note, and after talking
with the sender, that he once had a conversation with a lady on the top of a
hill on serious themes, but it was not the occasion here in the mind of the
communicator, and was on a different subject.—J. H. H.)
18. Com. : We once walked together alongside a large graveyard.
Rec. : Happened several times to me ; no one in particular suggested.
Note by Com. : This message referred to an incident similar to the
one mentioned in question 10, though it was another asylum.
Note by Rec. : The incident referred to was not recalled, but it was
known not to refer to F.
19. Com. : Who was the leading homoeopathic doctor in Bloomington ?
Rec. : That suggests my wife.
Note by Com. : This referred to the father of the man I knew in the
town of D.'s wife, and was also connected with question 10. 1 was trying
to make D. understand who that man was, and by that means suggest
myself.
Note by Rec. : This suggested no one but the person intended and
others improbably connected with this research.
20. Com. : Mine was the first familiar face you saw as you came to a cer
tain new place to work.
2 Q
594 [part
J. U. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Rec. : That suggests Mr. W.
[Correct.—J. H. H.]
Note by Com. : Mr. W.'s face was the first that Mr. D. recognised as
that of an acquaintance when he came to Columbia.
N ote by Rec. : As a matter of fact and recollection it was W.
21. Com. : We were once interested in the same girl.
Rec. : Suggests Mr. Breece.
Note by Com. : I had spoken to D. about a certain young lady a few
days ago, and he was interested in getting her into a position.
(It should be remarked, however, that the statement is very ambiguous,
and can be given a very different meaning from that which the sender
might have intended.—J. H. H.)
Note by Rec. : W. was not suggested by this, but rather another
student in the laboratory who worked with me at Cambridge.
22. Com. : Do they still call you "Doc " ?
Rec. : Suggests several.
Note by Com. : This refers to an incident at Cambridge that explains
itself, and was closely associated with myself.
Note by Rec. : Many familiar acquaintances call me ' ' Doc. "
23. Com. : I have less hair on my head than you.
Rec. : That's F. He has very little.
Note by Com. : This I thought quite pertinent, and calculated to
suggest me distinctly, though it applied with less force to F.
Note by Rec. : W. has less hair than F. The judgment is accounted
for by my apperception mass.
24. Com. : What emotion do you get from valerianite ?
Rec. : I think that's F.
Note by Com. : This was pertinent to me, but was intended to suggest
Mr. Huntsman and to break up the preconception evidently haunting the
receiver.
Note by Rec. : Suggested laboratory students, but no one in particular.
25. Com. : Two times recently we had to wait for a tardy street car.
Rec. : That suggests Mr. W.
Note by Com. : Coming from the lectures of Dr. Boas at the Museum
of Natural History, once two weeks ago, and once a week ago, Mr. D. and
myself had to wait for the street cars.
Note by Rec. : The incident referred only to W.
26. Com : Most worthy A N .
Rec. : That's W., sure.
Note by Com. : This was the name of the college fraternity and the
sign by which it was known. D. and myself were members of it.
Note by Rec. : Password in a secret college fraternity. W. was the
only " brother " concerned at Columbia. This made the conclusion a
practical certainty.
As the two gentlemen who engaged in this experiment were entire
strangers to me, and as the results must not depend upon my trust in their
good faith alone, I secured their signatures to the following statement
regarding their relation to the bond fide nature of the experiment.
J. H. Hvsi.op.
xLI.] Appendix IV. 595
Columbia University, in the City of New York,
February 2nd, 1899.
I, the undersigned, state upon my honour that I have not told Mr.
Dearborn anything beforehand that would lead to my identity or prevent
this experiment from being entirely secret.
Robert S. Woodworth.
.... ( Wai.ter T. Marvin.
Witnesses 1 , „ n
I J. H. Hvsi.op.
Columbia University, in the City of New York,
February 2nd, 1899.
I, the undersigned, state upon my honour that I have not heard from Mr.
Woodworth nor anyone else anything beforehand that would prevent this
experiment from being entirely secret.
George S. Dearborn.
( Wai.ter T. Marvin.
Witnesses (J. H. HYsLOp.
GROUP B.-I.
New York, January 30th, 1899.
This set of experiments differs but slightly from those of Group A. But
there is enough difference to separate their record from that of the former.
The same general problem of identification is involved, but it is a little
more complicated and suggestive. The chief aim of Group A was to identify
the sender, whether the other persons mentioned were correct or not. The
aim in this group will be to represent two or more personalities in the
incidents and to test the receiver's judgment in regard to the accuracy of his
distinction between the different persons involved in the incidents. This is
to some extent attempted in some of Group A, but not in as systematic a
manner as in this set. Besides, there may be less uniformity of character in
the present set. But with whatever differences between the two groups,
there will be very decided resemblances in the fact that the same kind of
incidents will be chosen and the same secrecy involved in the situation of
the receiver. The proper difference between the two sets of experiments
will consist in the attempt simultaneously to secure the identification of two
persons by incidents that will not fuse into the same apperception mass.
There may also be some variety in the group, representing slight differences
in method and complexity, but on the whole it will consist of cases such
as have just been described.
This experiment is one in which the subject of it was brought to
communicate with another, and was detained as receiver without previous
expectation that such would be the case. Hence there was all the secrecy
desired. In it I myself personated the incidents in the life of another
person, and threw into them expressions that belonged only to myseft and
the life of ourselves, so that there was the opportunity to discover the
identity of more than one person in the case.
2 q 2
596 [part
J. H. Hyslop, PhD.
Communicator : Professor Hyslop. Receiver : Mrs. Hyslop.
1. Com. : I believe you originally came from Philadelphia, did you not ?
I remember that you told me that you used to go to school there.
(No reply.)
2. Com. : Well, you got married at last without being threatened with an
old maid's lot. Do you remember any one who moved about the time
you did ?
(Before sending the question about the person who had moved, Mrs.
Hyslop remarked to my assistant: "I guess it is Mr. Hyslop himself."
Then evidently a pause, as the further note by assistant says : " Yes, I do.
I was wondering if he would get Mrs. O. down here. "
The suspicion that the statement belonged to me was correct, as no one
was likely to allude to an old maid's lot except myself. But the latter
sentence in the message had no reference to me whatever, and the distinction
between it and the first is clearly implied.
Then after sending the query about where the person in mind had lived
before moving, the assistant records the remark : " I think that's Mrs. 0. I
am sure." Then the question about her son's sleep came, and pertained to
incidents familiar to Mrs. O. and my wife.—J. H. H.)
Rec. : Did the person who moved when we did go from 149th Street ?
Com. : It may be. You must say, I can't.
(I had in mind the person who was recognised later as Mrs. W. , and I
sent my reply here as a diversion, though I thought that my wife had in
mind another person to whom this might apply, as I found later that it did,
but I had forgotten the circumstance that this party had moved from this
street.—J. H. H.) (C/. pp. 544-546.)
Rec. : Did your youngest son sleep well last night ?
Com. : Yes.
Rec. : Mrs. O., wait and we'll go home together.
Com. : Try the next question.
(The question about the " youngest son sleeping well " was clear to me,
as I was aware who was in the mind of the receiver, and though I had not
intended to suggest this person, I saw that the question about the moving
fitted the person in mind, as further reply by receiver showed. But I
answered " yes" in order to keep up the deception for a time, and it seems
to have confirmed, as it perhaps should, the impression already formed. The
answer asking Mrs. O. was pertinent, though I had not intended her at the
outset of my question. I have found since also that my impression about the
time that Mrs. W. had moved was not so accurate as I thought, and
that the statement fitted Mrs. 0. better than Mrs. W. This is an interesting
fact, though the difference of time in the moving of Mrs. W. does not exclude
her in general from the question. But I was wrong nevertheless about its
degree of nearness to our own moving, and so the suggestion was correctly
answered from the point of view of the receiver. —J. H. H.)
3. Com. : Winifred has quite a plump look, has she not ? I understand
she likes to tease. Where did I find out that ?
(No reply.)
4. Com. : Do you remember that my mother was ill for a long time, and
that I had much care and worry during her illness ?
XLI.] 597
Appendix IV.
Rec. : The same person. (Remarks to assistant : "Don't remember.")
5. Com. : If I said, "dad bob it," would you know me ?
Rec. : Send more. (Remarks to assistant : "Mr. Hyslop says 'dad
bob it ' sometimes.")
(The expression was one that an old schoolmate had deliberately used in
order to avoid the practice of swearing, and it had always struck me as so
funny that sometimes when a humorous situation called for an exclamation
I would use this expression to my wife, who had been told of its origin.
But I had not used the expression at least for a year. I threw it in here
to see if it would be properly placed and distinguished from the other
incidents, and later this result is apparent.—J. H. H.)
6. Com. : Just where was it that you lived in Philadelphia ? I lived
there myself, but do not recollect your address for the moment.
Rec. : Send more.
7. Com. : Who says Snobble Snumpkins ?
Rec. : That's what I cill Winifred.
(This name is merely a pet name with which Mrs. H. is accustomed to
tease our little girl, and it was thrown in here partly for diversion and
partly for the object of this experiment.—J. H. H.)
Com. : Whom have you told this 1
(No reply.)
8. Com. : Do you remember where you first met me, and what were the
circumstances ?
Rec.: (No reply.) (Remarks to assistant: "The fourth throws
me off.")
( 1 1 is clear here that the receiver's mind is beginning to look elsewhere
for a clue, and the next question shows the readiness with which the two
clues are correctly put together. —J. H. H.)
9. Com. : Do you remember that I bought a piano and began the study
of music to amuse myself before the illness and death of my mother ?
Rec : Did you ever live at 167, West 81st Street 1
(This in the correct question to ask, as it names the former residence of
the person 1 had in mind, Mrs. W. But I sent a message to turn the
receiver off again as follows. —J. H. H.)
Com. : We'll try further.
10. Com. : Who siys Squiggins ?
Rec. : Mr. Hyslop says that. Please come back to the main track.
(The name here was the pet name with which I teased my little boy, and
its recognition has no special consequence, but the added request to come
back to the main track shows very clearly that the receiver refused to identify
it with the suspected Mrs W., who I knew was not aware of the expression
at all. This interpretation of the reply was spontaneously confirmed by Mrs.
Hyslop's remark afterwards that Mrs. W. knew nothing of this. —.1. H. H.)
(To my assistant Mrs. Hyslop adds the remark : " Mr. Hyslop sends
5th, 7th and 10th questions.")
11. Com. : Do you remember that the last time I saw you I remarked that
it was easier to come up to your place than I had thought it was ?
Rec. : Do you live on 121st Street ? Then a moment later : It's time
for me to go home ; say yes or no.
.598 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Com. : We shall go on until you are correct.
(The misleading nature of this message is apparent without comment. —
J. H. H.)
12. Com. : Don't you remember that funny statement of little George,
that " certain neighbouring children would not smile at him until he got
tame " ? I think that was awfully 'cute. Then he said it without the
slightest sense of humour. Guess me, now.
Rec. : 5, 7, 10, and 12 are Mr. Hyslop's questions. Is Mrs. W. there ?
(This answer has considerable interest. It shows that the receiver's
memory was good enough to recall the fact that Mrs. W. neither knew the
incident indicated about my little boy nor could be identified with the
reference to the want of the sense of humour in my boy, which was a matter
of frequent remark to my wife and only a few others who could not be
suggested in any of the messages here sent. This was what I had aimed
at.—J. H. H.)
13. Com. : Do you remember that you bought some of your table-ware at
the store I know so well in Philadelphia ?
Rec. : That's Mrs. W. At the Simons store. I'm going home. Mrs.
W. can come out and see me. (Then, a moment later) : Is Mrs. W. there ?
Com. : You are right in your guess, but Mrs. W. is not here.
Mrs. W. lives in New York, and is a sister of the person whose store in
Philadelphia is named. (This 13th question was sent merely to seal the
suggestions given in the others, and it was natural from the nature of the
previous experiments that Mrs. W.'s presence would be supposed. —
J. H. H.)
GROUP B.-II.
This set of experiments can be classed in Group B, though there are
many features of it that would justify placing it in Group A. There is the
main purpose to seek for the identification of a single person, as the largest
part of the incidents chosen relate to the chief person to be identified ; but as
there was a distinct purpose to throw me off the main track on certain
other definite persons, the experiment can be classed in Group B. It also
differs from those conducted with the telegraph line in that this method
of communicating between the sender and receiver was abandoned for
that of using an intermediary who should either bring the messages to me
or send them by mail without using the handwriting of the person to be
identified. The secrecy and method in all other respects were the same
as in the use of the telegraph. I have also the advantage of studying
myself the nature of the situation and mental operations directly, where
before I had to largely infer it until informed by interrogation of the parties
But in this experiment I was myself the receiver, and was in a position to
know quite distinctly the conditions under which the inferences of my other
subjects were made. The results were the same, and can be studied with the
same interest and profit.
Communicator : Doctor F. Receiver : Professor Hyslop.
1. Com. : I knew you several years ago.
Rec. : No suggestion.
XLI.] 599
Appendix IV.
(This message was not intended to have any special pertinence accord
ing to subsequent statement of sender.)
2. Com. : Were you not on Amsterdam Avenue about two weeks ago ?
Rec. : Yes, Miss Stettheimer.
(1 had in mind the incident which I had sent as communicator to this
lady as receiver in a previous set of experiments ; then, assuming that the
sender had in view the same part of the Avenue that I had, the inference was
pertinent, and since the coincidence could hardly have been true of any one
else, it would have been correct ; but afterwards I found that the sender
had in view another part—the other end of the Avenue—of which I should
never have thought, in spite of the fact that it was the end below the college
that I came over every day. Consequently the case is a very pretty illustra
tion of the illusion of apperception. The identification was correct from my
memory of the possible persons who saw me about the time mentioned on
the part of the Avenue I thought of, but as regards the part thought of by
the sender it was a mistake, and illustrates the misunderstanding that can
easily occur between communicators and sitters where the statements are
capable of a variety of meanings in spite of their apparent simplicity.—
J. H. H.)
3. Com. : You seemed to be carrying a copy of The Sun.
Rec. : No suggestion.
(Only on two occasions within any recent date had I carried a copy
of The Sun, and when the question came to me I had some little difficulty
in recalling whether it was on Amsterdam Avenue that I had carried
both of them. At last before answering I remembered that it was on
Third Avenuo that I could have been seen carrying it once -and on
Amsterdam Avenue in the second case, but as I could remember seeing no
one on either occasion, I could not even make an intelligible guess. But the
communicator's explanation of the question afterwards shows that it had
less definiteness and pertinence than I was disposed and entitled to consider
it when taken alone. He says that he did not know that this was a fact
regarding The Sun, but that he had seen me on Amsterdam Avenue from his
window with a newspaper in my hand and simply knew about the circumstance
that would possibly make a reference to this particular paper relevant,
though the statement was not known nor intended to be as pertinent as it
seemed to be to me.—J. H. H.)
4. Com. : I should think you might reply to such a so-called critique.
Rec. : No suggestion.
(No special importance was intended by this question. It was only a
more specific suggestion of the thought in the mind of the sender, limiting
the application in his mind—and unknown to him also in mine—to
one of the cases in which I could have been seen carrying a copy of The Sun.
In this case again, it was only the failure to remember any one seen on the
Avenue at the time I carried the copy in question that prevented me from a
guess as pertinent from my point of view as the second message, though
from that of the communicator it had little but an imaginary pertinence. —
J. H. H.)
5. Com. : I once met you in a public conveyance.
Rec. : No suggestion. The statement would apply to many.
600 [PAKT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(Inquiry of the sender shows that the expression " public conveyance "
was used purposely as a misleading form of language, as the thing in mind
was a ferry-boat, while I thought of an omnibus and street car. It repre
sented a true occurrence as between myself and the communicator, but was
obscure and trivial, as it did not purport to mean anything that I should
either necessarily or probably be expected to remember. But my memory
had to be tested as preliminary to more specific incidents.—J. H. H.)
6. Com. : Later I saw you at a reception.
Rec. : Would apply to many. No suggestion.
(A true incident, but not specially significant according to the statement
of the communicator.—J. H. H.)
7. Com. : Do you know who is to review your book for the Political
Science Quarterly?
Rec. : No. But it could be Merriam.
(I thought of three persons here as likely to put this question, but I
decided for the one mentioned in my answer on the ground of general
improbability for the other two, as being too open a question for them to
put, and the one named had not only taken part in these experiments, but
had been in the room recently and had as an outsider taken the lectures
which made up the book. My inference was a mere guess, rather as a
possibility than any inference involving any assurance. But the sender
intended it as a means of keeping my mind on as many tacks as possible.—
J. H. H.)
8. Com. : I shall be very glad to receive a copy if you have any to spare.
Rec. : No suggestion. (Question of no special significance.)
9. Cbm. : Shall I see you at the next faculty meeting ?
Rec. : No.
(Communicator explains that the question was intended to open the way
to a more definite suggestion of a colleague later on and to continue the
general object of diverting my mind toward as many persons as possible.—
J. H. H.)
10. Com. : How is your brother now !
Rec. : No suggestion, though if my memory were good, I could limit
this question te a few.
(This question was far more definite than the sender imagined, as the
intermediary who was acquainted with its purpose at once noticed and
expressed afterward his surprise at the reception it met. Still I had thought
of something quite different from what the sender had in mind, and could
not have guessed the incident he intended by it. He had met my
brother who was here for a short time several years ago. five I think, and I
could not imagine who it could be that was in any way acquainted with him.
He was somewhat, yes, considerable, of an invalid at tho time, and was
unable to continue his course on account of his illness. But I thought of
acquaintances of this period only as a possibility, my main attention being
directed to the possibility that the brother was concerned who was specially
mentioned in my sittings at Boston, which I had detailed to only a few
students, and I was trying to limit the probabilities to the two or three
most likely to think of them. But I had to weigh the probabilities between
my invalid brother, with the possible persons who might have known him,
Appendix IV. 601
and those who might have put the question from the memory of my narrative,
and I could make no probable guess, though the question was much more
specific from my point of view than from that of the communicator. The
sender also knew nothing of my brother's illness.—J. H. H.)
11. Com. : When did you hear from George last ?
Rec. : No suggestion.
(I betrayed from my manner to the intermediary my consciousness of an
interesting pertinence in this question, as I had another brother by this
name, and coming after the previous question it definitely excluded iny
invalid brother from the case, as this brother George had never been in the
city and his name could be known only to those who had heard me narrate
the results of my Piper sittings, where this brother was mentioned, and he
was the one I had in mind as the alternative to the invalid brother. Still
I could not definitely identify the communicator in any way. Further his
own explanation of the question is that it had no special object, the name
George having come into his mind by mere chance. From his point of view
it was therefore neither a true incident nor a pertinent question, while as
a fact also I had not narrated my experiences to him. Consequently its
pertinence was a mere matter of chance.— J. H. H. )
12. Com. : Is Mrs. Hyslop well ?
Rec. : Marvin.
(This answer was suggested by the relative pertinence of this question to
the line of thought suggested by the two previous ones. They all fit together,
and as there were in my mind only two persons likely to ask all three
of them, and one of these was in the room with me, I guessed the other.
From my point of view this answer was most probable, but as there was no
cumulative purpose in the three questions and no special purpose in this one
by the communicator, but only a question of general diversion, we see a most
interesting source of illusion between sender and receiver.—J. H. H.)
13. Com. : Were you not a candidate for a position some time ago, for
which you were unsuccessful !
Rec. : Yes, but no suggestion.
(Communicator states that this refers to a true incident of which he
knew, but which was a different one from that which I had in mind. The
one in his mind was some eleven years ago, and the one suggested to me by
the question was not more than four or five years ago. But in either case it
was not a very suggestive question, especially the case in his mind,
as I was not likely to have mentioned it to him, and not likely to have
remembered it if I did. Still it is pertinent, and it might be assumed
possible for me to recall the fact, but the more important case in my mind
prevented association from going any farther.—J. H. H.)
14. Com. : Do you recall lecturing a few years ago before a body of men i
You talked of depth.
Rec. : Cushing.
(The communicator was present at this lecture, and my answer showed
that his question was rightly interpreted, and the name indicated was that
of the chairman of the evening. I was asked to talk on experiments in
space perception in company with another officer of the college who was to
talk on another subject. There were only two names besides my own
602 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
suggested by the question, and I had no memory of any others whatever,
and, as I was practically certain that my colleague could not be the sender,
while the man named was in the institution at present, and could easily have
been the communicator, I ventured on his name, though conscious that it
could as well or better be some one else whom I could not recall. Hence
both question and answer were pertinent, though a defect of memory pre
vented any nearer suggestion of the right person.—J. H. H.)
15. Com. : Your experiments seem rather indefinite in character. I doubt
whether one can draw any scientific conclusions from them.
Rec. : Grannis.
(The communicator explains that the question was intended to divert ine
in the direction of the colleague in mind in question 9, as this colleague had
remarked to me in presence of sender the sentiment here expressed. But
this incident was not suggested to me, though I thought of the colleague in
the mind of the communicator. But as I knew it was not his day to be at
the college and that it was improbable that he was present, I selected the
next probable person to make this remark, as I had remarked what I
thought a little scepticism in him when present as an observer. —J. H. H.)
16. Com. : Do you still hold the same views regarding Hobhouse and
Sigwart that you did two years ago ?
Rec. : Grannie (!) or Stettheimer.
(The communicator explains that he thought this question would suggest
either Grannis, Marvin, or Jones, who had been students of mine in connec
tion with this subject, but I could not recall that the first-named person was
in the class at that time, and I knew the last was improbably the originator
of the question because he was present in the room where the messages were
brought ; and the second-named person, though I thought of him, and he
was one of the very few that I could remember as having been in that class,
I decided against, because he had a few minutes before come into the
room and left again. Hence I inferred the first name as pertinent to my
present class on the same subject, and doubtful in reference to the two
years before, and the second name as certainly a member of the earlier
class. I was therefore right in my thought of the three persons actually
intended, but the circumstances mentioned prevented my decision from
being what it might have been.—J. H. H.)
17. Com. : Marvin was misled.
Rec. Grannis.
(This was intended to keep me on the person I named. It represents an
incident in an earlier experiment, when the person named in the message
was misled in thinking that the person I here named was the communicator
when he was not. The real communicator in the present case had been told
it, and was not present when it occurred. He thus concealed himself while
he kept me on another tack than himself.—J. H. H.)
18. Com.: Did you not have a "naive and enthusiastic" student in
Ethics a year ago ?
Rec. : No definite suggestion, unless it is a ruse by Grannis in
reference to practical ethics.
(This was a perfectly definite question intended to suggest a certain
student whom the phrase in quotation marks ought to have recalled, but not
XLI.] C03
Appendix IV.
doing this, I could only follow the preconception established by several
previous messages. If also it had reminded me of the person it was intended
to suggest it would also have indicated the communicator quite probably, as
I had had a few words with him a short time before on a matter connected
with the person in his mind. But here again memory failed and my precon
ception indicates an interesting source of error that would have been avoided
by a better memory, and the circumstance mentioned would have had
great evidential force.—J. H. H.)
19. Com. : Hays was a high churchman.
Rec. : Grannie, though Marvin could as well be identified with it.
(My answer was given in these terms because I felt that it was extremely
improbable that Marvin should so soon after his experiments with me, when
he had sent this very message to me, repeat it in this way. Hence knowing
that in those experiments he had thought that Grannis was present at my
end of the line, and that no one else but the intermediary in this set, Mr.
McW., knew it, I inferred that the incidents had been told Grannis, and
guessed him on this ground. The communicator explains that Marvin
came in and suggested the message after telling the circumstances, and that
he sent it in order to keep me on the very person that I mentioned. My
identification was, therefore, correct though I reached it in the wrong way.
—J. H. H.)
20. Com. : I heard you lecture on Hypnotism several years ago.
Rec. : No suggestion.
(This is a mixture of true and false, as a diversion and transition to
something more directly pertinent. I never delivered any such lecture as
this message suggested, but I lectured on, or rather discussed hypnotism in
my class, which the sender attended.—J. H. H.)
21. Com. : A year or so before you lectured on the History of Philosophy.
Rec. : Regularly or only on certain occasions 1 (Vf. p. 545.)
Com. : Regularly.
(I thought of a course which I give at Barnard College in this subject,
and of Miss Stettheimer as the possible communicator, but I knew this was
impossible on reflection, and could only feel wholly Uncertain. I afterwards
learned that the communicator had an entirely different course in mind
which I had forgotten for the moment, but which came to me just before
the receipt of the twenty-sixth message, as will be remarked there. It is
worth saying, however, that even if I had recalled the right course, I had
wholly forgotten the presence in the class of the person who turns out to be
the real communicator in the present experiment. The fact was, however,
that the real communicator was not a member of this course, and merely
knew that I gave it and here used the fact as a diversion. —J. H. H.)
22. Com. : You later lectured on Space Perception.
Rec. : No suggestion save that it might be a lady in Barnard College,
who also heard me at Plainfield.
Com. : Guess again.
(The communicator explains that this was not a special incident or
lecture, but simply refers to lectures in my general course, and was used
merely as a general reference to himself preparatory to better identifying
incidents. To me it appeared to mean some specific lecture given to the
604 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
public, and having forgotten completely that I had given a course in the
History of Philosophy during the absence of the head of the department, I
naturally interpreted the message, especially from its mode of expression, to
refer to incidents which my reply makes apparent.—J. H. H.)
23. Com. : About three years ago I saw you in the lower part of the city.
Rec. : No suggestion.
(A true incident between myself and sender, and refers, according to
his statement, to the same fact as Question 5. It is sufficiently vague and
indefinite and is designed to test the point at which identification begins.
The next message has the same object, and only narrows the field slightly.
—J. H. H.)
24. Com. : I think it was in the spring.
Rec. : No suggestion.
25. Com. : I once attended a meeting of the S.P.R. at which you were
present.
Rec. : No suggestion.
(True general incident, and not specific or specially important.)
26. Coin. : When did you hear from G. P. last ?
Rec. : Marvin. Marvin is also the answer to Question 21.
(This is an interesting question and answer. 1 at once supposed that
the "G. P." referred to "George Pelham," the personality referred to in
the last report of Dr. Hodgson, and as I had narrated to the person named
in my answer the full details of my own sittings in which " G. P." acted
once as amanuensis, and as he knew that I was carrying on the experiments
with Mrs. Piper through Dr. Hodgson, —Dr. Jones, who was all the while in
the room with me, being the only other party that knew the fact,—I at once
felt assured of the identity and so named the person above mentioned. I
felt that this was especially confirmed by the coincidence of this question
with messages 10, 11, and 12. But, as a matter of fact, the communicator
explains that the letters stood in his mind for an acquaintance of mine to
whom I had introduced him during the holidays at the meeting of the
Psychological Association. Consequently, this is another illustration of
mere chance in producing a cumulative case of coincidences in which the
personal identity imagined by me to be strongly indicated is illusory in its
objective interpretation, correct as it may be from my standpoint. But it
in no way represents either the distributive or collective intention of the
communicator as it does the cumulative suggestiveness for the receiver.
This conclusion by niysolf was also reinforced by the sudden recall to
memory of the fact at this time that I had given a course in the History of
Philosophy in Columbia, and that question 21 referred to this instead of to
the Barnard course, and as Dr. Marvin was a member of this course and
almost the only one that I could remember in it, and certainly the only one
about the institution, with probably the exception of Mr. McW., the inter
mediary in the experiments, who could be a party to question 21, I at once
saw the pertinence of the question and in connection with this last message
answered with considerable confidence in the identification, especially as
this supposition coincided with the cumulative character of the messages
already mentioned. But its illusory nature has already been remarked.—
J. H. H.)
XLI.] 605
Appendix IV.
27. Com. : Ph. Im. R. (C/. G. P.'s interruptions, pp.211-213.)
Rec. : If these are intended for the symbols of names in the S. P. R.
Proceedings it is Marvin.
(I learn that as a fact Dr. Marvin happened to come in just after my answer
to question 26 was sent and did suggest this message and intended it as his
own to see if I would identify him. My answer in any case was correct.
But my reason for it is such that the sending of the message by any
one else would have led to the same identification. There was probably no
other student in the institution who could have given these symbols of the
personalties, Phinuit, Imperator, and Rector. Consequently he must have
been suggested as the originator of the message, whether he were the
immediate sender or not. By this time, of course, I felt tolerably certain
of the main person responsible for the messages as a whole, with reckoning
for diversions. The issue, however, shows that I was wrong. —J. H. H.)
28. Com. : Do you know anything of Gritting !
Rec. : Franz.
(This was intended by the communicator to turn me on the track of
Professor C. , the same person intended by messages 9 and 15. But, as seen
in my answer, it failed of its purpose, and not only brought a correct answer
as to the real sender, since I remembered only a few days before having
talked with this person about the one named in the message, but it also quite
broke the preconception existing in regard to Dr. Marvin. There was, in
fact, whatever the sender intended, less reason for my supposing Professor
C. either as the sender or as the proper person meant than the one I guessed.
I had not talked to any other person than the one I named for a year or
more about the man named in the message.—J. H. H.)
29. Com. : Do you believe there is much demand for psychologists at the
present time ?
Rec. : Franz.
(The question was a vague one, not referring to any special incident
between us, but my guess or inference was based mainly on its close
consistency with the previous message and the known ambitions of the
person named. It turns out to have been the correct answer, though I had
no assurance of it at the time. —J. H. H.)
30. Com. : You once advised me to accept a newspaper position if I
could get it.
Rec. : No suggestion.
(This was a true incident between the communicator and myself, though
I had no recollection of it. I had made the same recommendation to several
students in the past, but could not recall any one of them to whom it would
apply. The incident was certainly trivial enough.—J. H. H.)
31. Com. : The baby said nothing.
Rec. : Franz quoting C .
(This sentence was quoted from my message some time before to
Professor C. for my identification, and as Dr Franz was present with
Professor C. as my assistant, my memory made it certain that the person
named in my answer was responsible for the question ; and it seems to have
occasioned some surprise that my answer came as it did, since the statement
was intended to turn me to Professor C. Had I had the slightest reason
606 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
under the circumstances to suppose that Professor C. was present at the
college, or that he would consent to an experiment of this kind after his
expressed opinion about the experiments, I might have wavered at the
message. But the whole mental situation made this impossible to me, and as
I knew that no other person could know the incident referred to in the
message except the sender, who had been my assistant when it was sent to
Professor C I had a clear case of identification with a very strong assur
ance, and one also that made any other of the persons that I had named in
connection with other messages impossible communicators of this message. —
J. H. H.)
32. Com. : I must leave in a short while. Will return to college Tuesday.
Rec. : C .
(Before receiving any further messages, the next day I wrote the follow
ing note to Mr. McW.. the intermediary, in explanation of my answer to the
question, or rather measage :—
"February HMA.
" Mv dear McW.,—I was in such a hurry yesterday that I failed to say
in regard to the last message that I regarded it as Franz personating C,
instead of C. himself. My answer meant that it pertained to C.
"J. H. H."
It seems that the message was intended to be more effective in diverting
me to the belief that 0. was the communicator, and the receiver had
correctly inferred my state of mind about him, though supposing that it
could be overcome by so direct a message in the first person. The object
was to break up my preconception in favour of the real communicator. He
n reality did not appreciate how conclusive for his identification the
previous message had been — J. H. H.)
33. Com. : Do you still experiment in binocular vision i
Rec. : This could be Franz, Marvin, or Grannis, and many others
as well.
(The question was general and my answer was intended to convey that
fact. I should remark, however, that at this stage of the experiment it had
to be resumed by correspondence, as the hour was up and I had to go to a
lecture.—J. H. H.)
34. Com. : Why did you not come up to my home as you promised !
Rec. : Franz personating C., except that it is possible that McW.
was at mi ;/ end of the line at the time, which I think was the case. If so,
this is McW.'s question.
(It here occurred to me that McW. himself was probably at my end of
the telegraph when I sent an incident of exactly the same import to Professor
C. for my identification on the same occasion on which I sent the statement
quoted in message 31, and consequently I wavered in my assurance
about the identification in that message. McW. then seemed to be a
possible alternative for both messages, though I had wholly forgotten
whether he was present or not, as surmised here. I knew that both
messages were pertinent to Dr. Franz, while they were possible with McW,
But the communicator intended it to refer to Professor C, but seeing that I
failed to take the bait in this direction, and that I had weakened regarding
Appendix IV. 607
himself, sent the next message purposely, with the aid of McVV., to divert
me in another direction.—J. H. H.)
35. Com. : I have been experimenter in at least six of your present series
of experiments on identity.
Rec. : McWhood or Marvin.
(I knew that this message could not be true of the person first
supposed in messages 31, 32 and 34, as he had witnessed only two of the
series, while it was true of the persons named, and if I had felt assured that
the first of the two had been present at the sending of 31 and 34 to Professor
C, this might still more have weakened my preconception that it was Franz.
I knew, however, that this message was not pertinent to him, and whether sent
by the persons named or not was true only of them. I learned after the series
was completed that the message was one of McW.'s intended to divert me to
either Marvin or himself. Hence both the intention and my identification
were correct. So definite a message or incident was rather a mistake except
on the supposition that the sender was not assured of its inapplicability to
any other persons than those named.—J. H. H.)
36. Com. : I am not yet thirty years old.
Rec. : No suggestion excopt McWhood or Marvin, though this might
apply to my children and some others !
(Question and answer explain themselves. The message had a definite
purpose, and implied no identifying circumstance.—J. H. H.)
37. Com : My complexion and hair are medium light.
Rec. : Marvin. Would apply to Franz also, but he would not answer
to certain other questions involving unity of personality. If then you intend
me to judge from this unity of questions, Marvin is the only one that will fit.
(This message definitely excluded McW. from the case, as his hair is
black, and I sent my answer with the weaker alternative for Franz for the
reason mentioned in my answer. I had not in my possession the series of
messages, and had to rely on my memory for a cumulative judgment, and as
some of the messages were possible only to Marvin, and others which were
very applicable to Franz might still—so far as I could remember them— be
borrowed diversions, since I knew Franz must be responsible for some of
them, the situation produced a preference in my mind for Marvin. My
answer, however, brought the following note :—
" Reply to 37 received. I have 38 ready, but before I send it, will you
not please to answer the following question : Whether or not yon. have
ample reason for your yuess 1 Who do yon reai.i.v think is your questioner !
" When the reply comes I shall send you 38.
" L. B. McW."
I replied to this as follows, hinting at the necessity for seeing the ques
tions, many of which I had forgotten :—
" Most probably Marvin ; but not being able to remember the questions
I cannot answer with any confidence. I ought to have the question*, and
perhaps I could decide."
" J. H. HvsLor."
(The questions, however, were not sent to me, evidently because my
answer to Mr. McW. had shown my preference.—J. H. H.)
608 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
38. Com. : Recently you recommended me for a position.
Rec. : Franz.
(This incident was quite specific, and I had no difficulty in identifying its
sender, though the position was not such a one as he aspired to, and might
have been applicable to one other person who had not figured in any of this
set of experiments. The answer was correct, though the assurance was not
complete for the set.—J. H. H.)
39. Com. : You received a note from one of your former students a few
days ago.
Rec. : Franz.
(This incident was also quite specific and pertinent, as it applied to the
person named with scarcely a doubt ; I could say without any doubt, so
far as the memory of the fact that I had received a note from this very
person was concerned, but I felt it possible that a forgotten note from some
other student might stand in the way of assured identification here. I sent
for the questions and after receiving them and examining thein for converging
evidence, could not decide anything except that the balance was for Franz, as
Marvin, though fitting my conception of many of them, would not fit 38 and
39, nor 31 and 34. I did not send this word to the communicator, however,
but waited for the next message.—J. H. H.)
40. Com. : A few days ago we talked of the conditions at W
University.
Rec. : Franz without doubt. This " W . . . . " is meant for Wooster
University about which we talked.
(This message was intended to bring the experiment to an end, and was
one calculated to make identification assured. The incident was one that
the sender could hardly suppose or expect to bo duplicated in the experience
of any one else and was well chosen to identify himself, though it was, of
course, possible that the same fact should be true of others. But as it
happened it was true only of himself, and my answer left the sender as
assured as I was.—J. H. H .)
GROUP C—I.
New York, Februaiy 18th, 1899.
The following is an experiment of the same general kind as Groups A
and B, except that it was conducted without the telegraph lines, and in more
distinct imitation of the Piper phenomena. The incidents were worked
up on slips of paper and exhibited one at a time to the receiver, as if they
had been telegrams, and his judgment obtained with notes of his remarks
by myself. In this case, however, I aimed at giving a suggestion of the
communicator near the beginning, though first using some incidents that
would keep him out of mind, and help in sustaining a little ambiguity
and incoherence. I obtained most of the incidents from tho father, and
worked them up myself with some from my own recollection of his
experience, and shall indicate them before giving the account of the
experiment.
XLI.] 609
Appendix IV.
The material given me by the father consisted of the following incidents
in the common life of himself and his son, intended to serve as means of
identification.
Harrison Avenue, Springfield, Mass., was the street on which the office
of the paper for which Mr. G. worked was situated. Union Street in same
city was the place of their residence. Rowing on the Connecticut River
here, Mrs. Aldrich and her kindergarten and daughter Gertrude, an old
playmate of the son when very young.
Robert's Road, the street on which the family lived in Bryn Mawr.
Hannum, the name of the janitor in the Baptist Church there. " Bob,"
the name of an intimate acquaintance there.
"Lester," the name that the son was called by an acquaintance in New
York.
J. A. Bolles, the name of the editor of the New Milford Gazette, and
called " Ja. Ja." by the son.
Millard Morgan, the name of an intimate friend of the son.
Frank E., name of a relative with the same initials as the father, and
always called simply "Frank E." Van Deusenville, the name of a village
near where "Frank E." lived, and Ives Place, the name of a part of the
estate belonging to the family. Used to go to picnics here.
Charlio, the name of Professor G.'s brother, as he was always called.
Monument Mills, the name of some mills in Housatonic ; Bob Mack, the
name of an intimate acquaintance there ; band concerts attended by father
and son on bicycles ; Rev. Charles A. Mallory, the pastor there.
The incidents which I added on my own account wore those in reference
to J. R. G. ; those about the murderer, his trial, capital punishment, the
interview, of which I had been told by Professor G. some years ago, they
being experiences common to him and myself, and I supposed probably to
his son, as events proved was true. Also the terms "anthropogenic" and
"consciousness of kind." I also added those about Philadelphia and the
public discussion, for the sake of running the identification down to a
certainty.
The incidents will be found to have been worked up with much inco-
herency and confusion of dates and places. Events that happened at
different places are sometimes mentioned in connection with the same place.
The reason for this will be apparent to all who are familiar with the Piper
phenomena, although I have very much exaggerated this incoherence. My
wish was to see how far the receiver would separate the incidents and
yet stand by the identification of his father, if he supposed him to be
the author of the statements.
Communicator : Professor G . Receiver : Mr. G., his son.
1. Do you remember where we used to live when my work kept me so
busy 1 You were a little lad. It was long ago, and in the east, I think. I
often think of it, and wonder whether you delighted in it as much as I did.
Do you remember the man out west with my name, J. R. G. ? He must
have been a relative. Don't you remember our talk about him at
M . . If . . . . d? I can't get all of it, before we siw him in Ohio. This
was on U .... on S t.
2 R
GIO [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Mr. G. : That J. It. G. is Joshua R. Giddings.
(This recognition was correct, and there was apparently nothing but the
initials and the reference to Ohio to indicate it. But afterward Mr. G. told
me that he had recently been reading his life and that he was a distant
relative. The places abbreviated were not recognised.—J. H. H.)
2. I am going to see you when I can. You ought to remember me well
enough. I was opposed to slavery. J . . sh . . a R. G . . d . . . . ng . . It
is hard to get. If I remember rightly I was in what you call Congress.
We had exciting times about '61. You knew Mrs. Aldrich. What nice
things she used to do for you when you were so young, knee high to a duck,
while I was making speeches in the campaign.
Mr. G. : (Here the name was again recognised, and the statement
made that he was opposed to slavery. Then :) I did know a Mrs. Aldrich
in Springfield, Mass. She had a sort of kindergarten.
3. My special science was not yet much known, though many may think it
ought to have been. But you would not have understood it then. We had
not gotten out of the woods then. Well, things have changed. Do you
remember Gertrude ? Was there anybody by that name 1 I think I know
her. Or was it Girtie, Guthrie, or something like that ? That was a big
city then. She was a little girl when I went to interview a man who was to
be hung for murder. If I remember rightly it was in a town where there
was a college and not far from where we lived. Afterward we moved. I
must have told you about capital punishment.
Mr. G. : I remember Gertrude, Mrs. Aldrich's daughter.
4. I often think of the place and the work. That brute made me less
sentimental. He might have been anthropogenic, but he tried my patience
and that was great. Seventeen miles away I could have been at home.
Boston may be a good place, but it has fewer memories than the town on
the river and the college where the girls were. The boys were not far off.
Do you recall President Sharp ? No, Sharkey ... Is that it ? Will
come again.
Mr. G. : That is President Sharpless. I know his son. They were at
Haverford near Bryn Mawr where we lived. " Anthropogenic " sounds like
father. It is his word. I have heard him talk about capital punishment.
(Allusion to "special science" in previous question. I intended President
Sharpless by " President Sharp " and following words.—J. H. H.)
5. Your father would be glad to see you doing well at your work. Do
you still make shoes at that mill by the monuments ? Brother lived there
too. The kindergarten was a fine place, wasn't it ? Wasn't Gertrude there /
Do you remember the tall houses, sky-scrapers, as we used to call them
where we lived ? Things have changed. This is a strange world here. No
newspapers to write.
Mr. G. : Father was a newspaper man. I don't remember the mill by
the monuments. There is the kindergarten again. The sky-scrapers I know
only in New York.
(The relevance of Gertrude was also recognised again.— J. H. H.)
6. Wait a minute. I am forgetting. Oh ! yes, the river we used to row
on. Slavery ... I am wandering. My mind runs on this subject
still. I wrote on all kinds of subjects and had many interviews. And I
XLI.] 611
Appendix IV.
had to go about very much. You remember we went down to the river to
row together. There was a dam across it further up where there were so
many paper mills. Sharpless ! That's it. He was only a short distance
from us.
Mr. G. : These were the paper mills on the Housatonic, where we go in
the summer. 1 was born there.
(These were not the mills that I had in mind when I wrote the incidents
down. I had those at Holyoke, Mass., in mind, which were near Spriugfield.
—J. H. H.)
7. Do you recall that murderer whose crime and trial after ten years
made so much noise about the country ? He was tried where there was a
girls' college, not far from home. I went to interview him before he was
hung. The paper was to publish what he was to say. But I got tired of
this work and went to the kind of work that I like, and helped the girls to
learn. It was as good as Mrs. Aldrich's school. But it was not a kinder
garten.
Mr. G. : I don't remember this murder trial. The incidents would tit
my father. He did go to interview a murderer.
8. Do you remember that trip to Europe ? Those porpoises. They were
fine. Most of it has gone. But I forgot the Baptist Church. Was it
Spurgeon or Hannum that preached ? This was in January. Is that right !
No. I am thinking of the janitor. It was the parsonage in which we lived.
What a lovely city. They called it . . near the place . . . love.
Queer name. Did you ever read the 23rd Psalm ?
Mr. G. : Father went to Europe and I remember that he talked about the
porpoises. Hannum is right. He was the janitor at the church in Bryn
Mawr. We lived in the parsonage. [Reference to porpoises mine.—J. H. H.]
9. You were a little fellow when you came to the office. Do you recall
your first pair of trousers ? Was it on Han . . . What's that ? Hasson
shu . . . ave. Let me see. Wait until I am clear. Oh! close to home.
H A R . . . N A . . . E N U . . . in a field. I am going,
will try again.
Mr. G. : I did often go to father's office in Springfield, Mass. This looks
like Harrison Avenue. But I don't remember the place.
(The word " field " was puzzling for a moment, but in a flash Mr. G. saw
that it was intended for the name of the town, which was correct, namely,
Springfield.—J. H. H.)
10. How good a thing it is and well
For brethren in unity to dwell.
That's the name of the town near where we lived. This was afterward.
Where was it ? You remember the girls' school, where we made brain, not
brawn. Some of it sounds like this : Robert ! Who is Robert ? Oh !
Robert's . . . What's the rest ? Is it Road ? Yes, yes. Was this in
Mass. ?
Mr. G. : This is Robert's Road, where we lived in Bryn Mawr. Oh ! that
means Philadelphia, only ten miles from Bryn Mawr.
(Here Mr. G. put together this and the eighth question and with the
manner of an interesting discovery and assured belief mentioned the name
of Philadelphia, which was correct.—J. H. H.)
2 h 2
612 [part
H. Byslop, Ph.D.
[Short Beach, Conn., Avgiut 2nd, 1899.
I learned incidentally a day or two ago of an interesting mistake made
by myself in this allusion to the 23rd Psalm. The mistake is precisely like
those so often made by communicators in the Piper sittings. I had intended
the reader to suppose from my quotation about brethren living in unity that
I was quoting the 23rd Psalm mentioned in a previous question. Now, a
few days ago, I had occasion to mention the same sentence : "How good
a thing it is for brethren in unity to dwell," and referred it to the 23rd
Psalm, as usual, and as in Question 8. But I was laughed at by my wife and
a friend with her. I insisted and felt quite confident that I was right, but
they were not to be convinced, and reasserted that I was in error. But I
would not yield until I took a concordance and found the passage in the
first verse of the 183rd Psalm. 1 shall certainly have to be charitable to
"spirits" when they commit similar mistakes, especially when we recall
the fact that the 23rd Psalm was a favourite one in the family, very ofteu
sung at family worship, and more often recited on Sundays, while the
133rd was very often mentioned and recited as a moral lesson to children
who frequently had their differences that the sentiment in this Psalm was
intended to prevent.—J. H. H.] (Gf. pp. 228 231.)
11. You used often when small to come to the office. 1 saw you there,
and I think mother will recall it. Do you 1 H . . R . . . . SON . . V . .
NUE. Wasn't Gertrude there ? Where is " Bob " ? He is a good fellow.
I know how you like him. Where is that street ? A man in your class has
the name of it.
Mr. G. : That must be Harrison Avenue, because there is a man by that
name in my class, but I don't remember it. I know " Bob " well.
12. Is it that Baptist sexton ? Sounds like Mark Hanna. Is that
right ? He lived in the same town as . Thomas, who was very
bright. I knew it. You knew " Bob " there, I remember. We did better
afterwards, and I had more time to write. I must get that name. It . . .
Thomas. Can't get it right. There was a . Rhodes there, too.
He died, and . . . Thomas is still living.
Mr. G. : There was a man by the name of Rhodes, the president of Bryn
Mawr College, where we were. I did not know of his death. Thomas I
don't know. Oh, yes ; it might be Miss Thomas, the Dean at Bryn Mawr.
(The reference to the Baptist sexton was correctly interpreted as an
allusion to "Hannum."—J. H. H.)
13. Do you remember who called you Lester? Where is that gazette our
boarder worked for ? Was it on Union-street ? Ja. Ja. . . . I don't
hear. Bones . . . Bowl . . . What's that ? Sounds like Bonus.
Don't you remember Ja ? I knew him and mother. That ought to prove
who your father is. And somebody else, too.
Mr. G. : When we came to New York, there was a fellow who always
called me "Lester," without any reason that I could give, as that was not
my name. That "Ja. Ja. " refers to John A. Bolles. I used to call an
imaginary being " Ja. Ja." in my play, and I called Mr. Bolles this because
of his initials, " J. A." We did live on Union-street, Springfield.
14. Where is that book I wrote ? I am thinking of it. Where is brother
Charlie now ? Oh ! those mills. It was not at Milford. Do you remember
XLI.] 613
Appendix IV.
the band concerts ? We had to have bicycles then. Was Frank E. at any of
those farm picnics ? Was that the name ? Sounds like a baker's dozen.
Mr. G. : Charlie was my father's brother. This might be written of last
summer. All of it is as if it were from my father. Frank E. is a distant
cousin of mine by the name of G . He was a farmer there.
(Mr. G. here referred to all the past questions with the remark that the
whole of them would fit his father, except those alluding to J. R. G. This
was correct, as I had used that name for diversion. " Baker's dozen " a bad
pun for Van Deusenville.—J. H. H.)
15. I forget a good many things. Only a few come back. But I
remember Ives Place and Millard Morgan. Now I am thinking of that place
where the girls went to school. Was it Smith College ? This was near the
Connecticut River where we used to row together. Those were fine times.
No, it wasn't there I taught the girls. What's that ? Are you saying
anything about a kind of consciousness 1 He says ... of kind.
Mr. G. : I know Ives Place, but I cannot recall where it is. I know
Millard Morgan well. He was in college last year. I have rowed on the
Connecticut. We lived one summer in Northampton. That phrase " kind
of consciousness " if turned around is a pet phrase of father's. Yes, there
it is in the next sentence (Cf. pp. 544-646.)
16. How's a tonic in mass ! Sounds like this. Did you say mass ? Who's
soul I Wait a minute. Tell Charlie he will be glad to know I am still living.
Where is Bob Mack ' That's the one I think. It is hard to speak in these
conditions. Some one is saying Milford Gazette. Ja. Ja. He can't stay.
Mr. G. : "How's a tonic," that's Housatonic, the name of the place
where we lived. Bob Mack is a man in this place. He was a friend of father
and of his brother Charlie.
(The recognition of J. A. Bolles was made again and his connection with
the gazette mentioned, and the town corrected to New Milford. —J. H. H.)
17. What did I say about the college ? I forget the name of it just now.
It has large columns in it, and I said much about consciousness in it. There
are girls there too. First it was where there were only girls. Do you
remember the Monument Mills ! Charlie was there. Who was the
pastor? Mai M . . 1 . . . . MALLOWS. Was it Marsh 1 No ;
same name as Charlie. Wait ; he'll get it. C H A . . . . L E . . A. M . . . .
LORY. That's it as I get it.
Mr. G. : There, "consciousness" ! It must be my father. I recognise
Charles A. Mallory. He married father and mother.
(Some further remarks were made about the "consciousness of kind,"
which was the put phrase of his father in sociological discussions.—J. H. H.)
18. Who says Bryn Mawr and Rhode . . What's the road i I
am muddled a little. The newspaper office was at the first place. Do you
remember the curve in the railway track near the bridge over the river !
We moved to this new place. Oh, yes ! that's Hannum I was trying to think
of a little while ago. I told you so. I got it wrong about Mark Hanna.
1 am clearer now. I think I can prove your father even if I do get muddled.
But I shall soon be all right.
Mr. G. : There was a curve in the railway at Van Deusenville, near
Housatonic.
614 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
(I had intended this curve to refer to the one in Springfield, Mass. All
the other incidents were correctly indicated and recognised.—J. H. H.)
19. Do you remember my book ? I liked social problems. But they
forced me to cross swords with Carl Schurz. There was another man too.
What was his name ? His people used to live in Judaea. He is a kind of
preacher. This all comes of studying society. Was Van .... Van Dew . . .
Van sen. Van Deussen there i The newspapers talked about it.
This makes me think of Harrison Ave. Mother will remember that, and
you too.
Mr. G. : That's father, I know. Were you at that discussion ? The
other man was F A .
20. I said Housatonic. That has nothing to do with saying mass, unless
you live there. Do you remember any picnics ? After all, teaching boys and
girls is better than farming, though it is fine work for a summer vacation.
Mr. (Ji. : Yes, I have been at lots of picnics. That's father, I know, we
spent the summers there. All of it applies to him.
There are a number of matters of interest in the results of this
experiment. The first one to be noted is that which is characteristic
of the whole series,—the trivial nature of the incidents chosen for the
purpose of identification. In the case of Professor G., it is especially
interesting to remark that the feature that perhaps ought to have been
chosen—on the supposition that men would choose what is uppermost
and most important in their minds—was not suggested to his mind
at all. What bears upon that was selected by myself, namelv, the
evidential terms and incidents in connection with the author's writings.
These are represented in the words "anthropogenic" and "conscious
ness of kind." All the facts chosen by the communicator were of the
unimportant kind that are objected to in the Piper phenomena.
It was a matter of much surprise to me that, the receiver inferred
so quickly the name for which J. R. G. stood. His remark afterwards
sufficiently explained that, however. But it was what I wanted to have
come in the second question, as a means of diversion from the immediate
suggestion of his father, who was nevertheless represented in the more
general statements about the place of living. The preconception thus
established did its work in forcing Mr. G. to interpret the incidents
with reference to their identity and relation in time and place. He
made no mistake in this where any spontaneous mention was made,
in spite of the incoherences involved, liven the slightest incidents
in a setting of the most remote connection, did not fail to be observed
and properly placed. All the names of persons were correctly recog
nised and located, and the same is true of places, with the exception
at first of some which were not fully spelt out and whose form did not
at once suggest their purpose, the receiver not being familiar with the
Piper reports in this respect.
XLI.] 615
Appendix IV.
There was no expressed suspicion that the communicator was his
father until we came to the third question, and here the term " anthro
pogenic " was seized at once and with assurance that the father was
connected with the experiment. This was not only true, but I
deliberately chose the term and threw it in here with a mass of very
general incidents of little suggestive power, in order to see whether it
would appear as evidential, or even suggestive at all, The success was
very striking, and I may say that the evidential nature of it is apparent
from the fact that the term is not a common one with writers generally,
but a technical word often used in the father's book. It was. the
recognition that the term was one of his father's peculiar words, and
the unlikeliness of any one else using it that stamped the receiver's
conviction with some assurance, and tended to break up the precon
ception established by the first identification. I did not expect so
ready an identification of President Sharpless. But this success at
once suggested Bryn Mawr and then at once the false implication
that the river referred to was at that place, which was the discrepancy
intended. The receiver also recognised the refeience of the first sen
tence in this fourth question to the last sentence in the previous
question, referring to the murderer indicated.
There were two errors of judgment as viewed from the stand
point of the communicator. They were, first, the identification of
the dam and paper mills alluded to as chose on the Housatonic, when
those at Holyoke on the Connecticut were intended, and the suggestion
of the railway curve at Van Deusenville when that at Springfield was
intended. They indicate that what may be supposed to be specific and
peculiar may in reality often be common enough to lack all evidential
force whatsoever.
Not less interesting was the identification of the city of Phila
delphia from the vaguest metaphorical allusion to it. From its
Quaker origin it has been called " the city of brotherly love," and in
question 8, I had suggested it in too vague a way to secure a guess, but
in question 10 the quotation from the 133rd Psalm and the idea
expressed by it suggested the right city with a startled expression of
discovery. In this latter question the error of putting the town
suggested by " Robert's Road," in Massachusetts, was at once noted,
though this may be considered quite easy, in spite of some incoherence
of statement.
The failure to remember Harrison Avenue was very interesting,
because the father had felt perfectly assured that this would be
remembered. The quick identification of Mr. Bolles was also striking,
because the suggestion was slight.
When we came to question 14, the receiver became tolerably assured
that the messages were from his father, and spontaneously remarked
616 [part
J. H. Eyslop, Ph.D.
the cumulative nature of the evidence, now observing that much
which previously had not suggested his father was meant to do so.
And in the fifteenth question the recognition of " consciousness of
kind " from a distorted suggestion of it was quick and sagacious, it
being in this situation intended as a remote suggestion, and for this
purpose readily seen. It very much strengthened Mr. G.'s feeling that
he was dealing with his father's massages.
But it was very strange that Ives Place was not at once recognised,
but wholly forgotten. This was another instance of a place that the
father supposed would be recognised immediately and without fail.
But it was only near the close of the experiment that it came to the
receiver's memory, and then only in connection with the name of a
place near it. That this part of the estate should be so readily
forgotten, and other minor incidents recalled with so little effort, only
illustrates the misunderstandings that may easily occur in all such
attempts at identification. The last two incidents, however, were
effective in securing assurance beyond the possibility of cavil and
doubt, as they were intended to do. The allusion to Mr. F
A in the way it was made was remarked as evidence of the
correctness of the inference. I had referred to Juda?a as if failing to
recall the name of the race to which Mr. A. belonged. This was
remarked as evidence that the name suggested by the occasion referred
to was correct, and that the incident must come from his father, or
be meant to identify him with the experiment.
Note A.—Addendum.
GROUP C —II.
New York, December 9th, 1899.
Communicator : Miss M. Receiver : Miss B. (December 5th, 1899.)
Inasmuch as the area of guessing was limited, as remarked, to a narrow
tield in my other experiments, I resolved to try a case in which no such
limitations could exist. The receivers in all the others could safely act on
the assumption that the communicator was most likely connected with the
college, and thus it would be supposed that the correct identification would
be easier. In the present experiment this objection is eliminated. The
communicator was a lady in this city and the receiver one hundred and fifty
miles from this place. It was conducted in the same manner as Experiment I.,
Group C. The results show that the identification was not interfered with
on this account, though the tendency of the receiver to limit her guessing at
first to the locality in which she lived justifies the suspicion which one must
naturally entertain against guessing under the circumstances described in
XLL] 617
Appendix IV.
my experiments. But objection of this sort is much weakened by the fact
that in this last experiment it was the intention of the communicator to
suggest the persons actually guessed by the receiver in her own locality.
The most interesting incident in the experiment was the correct answer
to Question 7, and the spontaneous reconstruction of the facts in the
mind of the sender with the cumulative inductive reasoning based upon the
previous messages. The process at once broke up the previous precon
ceptions and established a new apperception mass which made many
of the subsequent messages superfluous. The reader can determine for
himself the interesting and instructive character of the guess, together with
the later confirmations of it. The name Ross had no more special connec
tion with this ride than with hundreds of other experiences with the same
person in the same town. All the other guesses are but illustrations of the
general nature and purport of these experiments.
The experiments in group B, and also messages leading to incidental
identification, show how easy it is to personate the identity of others
than the communicator, though this process is largely limited to such
identification .is can be indicated by mere incidents rather than distinctive per
sonal traits and is likely to develop traces of the identity of the real communi
cator. In experiment I, group B, I successfully personated two different
persons merely by indicating facts which pertained to their identity and not
mine. It would not be so easy to reproduce the little tricks of language and
phrase of another, or various aspects of character difficult of imitation except
after long acquaintance ; nor would it be easy to reproduce the psychological
traits of another, though perhaps possible under favourable circumstances.
The complex incidents representing the unity of consciousness in the iden
tity or personality of the Piper communicators are more natural to a real
surviving person than to some one trying to personate them, and it is only
a most intimate acquaintance or an amanuensis that can come near to repro
ducing phenomena of this sort. But from my personation of two persons to
the extent of convincing the receiver that they were actually present (p.
596) we can understand the part played by Phinuit in the Piper case, or
hy any "control." Nor is it any objection that such personation is possible,
as it is apparent in the experiments that the communicator must know the
facts and the person they represent sufficiently to make the personation suc
cessful. This will be true on any theory of the matter, and in cases where
we have to suppose telepathy in opposition to spiritism to account for the
acquisition of the facts, the only question that can be raised is whether the
telepathy can be adequately selective for the purpose.
The same secrecy was maintained as in previous experiments, and I also
arranged it so that it was not known that it was I who was conducting the
experiment. I prepared the questions after securing the incidents from Miss
M., and sent them to a friend who understood the object of the experiment,
and he conducted it as if it were his own. The results are precisely like the
others. I alter names in all cases calculated to discover identity. In making up
my "messages" I endeavoured to imitate the confusion of the Piper pheno
mena, and so did not try to keep incidents independent of each other, as a
comparison of the " messages " with the incidents out of which I constructed
them will make apparent. The following are the incidents, obtained from
61.S [P4RT
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Miss M., and upon which I proceeded. In the construction of the case I
went from the more general to the more specific, in order, as before, to study
the point where identification began.
A walk on Pine-street (very common with all students). Miss B. telling
Miss M.'s hand in Mrs. Jones' parlor with Miss M.'s sister present. Miss
M.'s difficulties in gymnastic exercises, especially with the backward bend.
Drinking Russian tea with Miss C. in the spring at Miss Park's. Meeting
Mr. Huskins on a certain Sunday in Miss C.'s room. Taking the picture of
Miss 0. and Virginia Vales, near the Putnam House under a lilac bush.
The runaway on Holyoke mountain. Miss Judson and Miss C.'s sister in a
buggy in front of the running horse; Miss C, Miss M. , and Miss M.'s
sister in the runaway buggy- A call by Miss M. on Miss C. just before
taking the picture mentioned, and asked by Miss C. where she was going to
spend the summer. A talk with Miss C. by Miss M. about basket ball,
Miss C. making the rules for it, and a request for Miss M. to write an article
about gymnastics for one of the leading periodicals. The party in the run
away had gathered some columbines, and when the runaway began Miss M.
cautiously put them down on the Boor of the buggy and helped her sister
hold the reins.
Incident of Miss C. telling Miss M. about her life in Boston, and her
studies and physical training there. Read Betty Parr's poems to Miss
M.'s sister, and showed the day's order to the sister. Miss M., Miss C,
and Miss M.'s sister together put out of a certain place on the night
of the promenade and after eleven o'clock. Listening to a talk on self-
sacrifice a year ago after the promenade. Miss M. present, when Miss C.
received some photographs from her brother. A long wait to shake hands
with the president after the reception of last June.
These incidents were worked up into the following " messages," with as
much confusion and mistake as the necessities of the case required. The
remarks of the receiver were noted by my friend, and are embodied in the
account as in the other experiments. I have only to observe that Miss B.
was told only that the guessing "was an experiment in the psychology of
guessing, having a bearing on the subject of mediumistic communication,
and that the incidents had been furnished by a friend. Further than that
she was told nothing till the experiment was over."
1. Com. : Do you remember our walk together ? It was down towards
the river. What was the street ? Oh, yes, Pine-street. That was a
favourite place for the girls.
Reo. : Nothing. A favourite walk. Have sumo idea of the person,
but not from the question (message)
2. Com. : I had so much trouble with my gymnastics. Do you remem
ber the backward bend ) That was enough to break one's back. But you
helped me until I did it not so badly.
Rec. : No idea. Puts me off the track (referring to the suggestion
that came to her in reading 1).
3. Com. : Do you remember the photographs your brother sent you? I
knew of it, and how you were delighted with them. I have not seen you
XLI.] 619
Appendix IV.
for some time, and wish I could step in a moment and surprise^you as these
questions ought to do. Pine-street ;md Mrs. Jones.
Rec. : Suggests another person. Falls in better with 2 than the
person suggested while reading 1. It might be Miss Judson.
kind of ground ? Help a fellow out. Dear old Tom. No, it wasn't this.
It was on the other side. Oh, the house on top. Gone.
Rec. : Absolutely off. Suits neither of the two persons already
thought of.
5. Com. : I forgot to go on. It was in Mrs. Jones' parlor. Now I know.
M . . . s J . . . . d . . n. What's that ? She was there. Yes, yes, my
sister. Something about my fortune. All in your hands. Better
say head.
Rec. : Suggests the coming of my sister seven years ago last spring.
" Miss Judson. " [I use the quotation marks to indicate the reading of a
word partly given in the " message.'']
[The reading of this broken word was correct. I had intended it for
Miss Judson.-J. H. H.]
6. Com. : Do you remember that cup of tea l Spring. I think. Say it
again. I am sure it was. Did you say Park ! That's it, Russian Park.
No, no, the tea. That's not gymnastics. The tea, the tea. You and ....
and I your studies in Bo Wait a minute.
Rec. : "Boston."
[This was the correct guess for "Bo ," and is interesting for
the reasons that evidently influenced the receiver's mind in it. She had
naturally a better memory of where she had prosecuted her studies than the
incidents of drinking tea on a certain occasion. It is also interesting as
showing that the communicator cannot expect everybody to remember as
distinctly the incidents by which he would identify himself. The incident
in this message was far more specitic than the remark about the "studies
in Bo . . . . ; " but in spite of this it had evidently little suggestive
power.—J. H. H.]
7. Com. : The columbines on M hollyhock. How careful
I was .... the rains no, try again, r .... ns ... . tight. My,
what a fright ! Two ahead of us. Sister and .... ss .. or .... n. You
thought of Ross.
Rec. : Oh, wasn't it Miss Judson ? I think it was. I remember this
ride perfectly. "Mount Holyoke," " with the reins." I remember the
incident perfectly. Rachel [sister of Miss C] and Miss Judson were in the
carriage in front. They went quickly and made us go quickly too. I was
with Miss. M. Oh, I've got Alice in No. 4. It may be Alice M. [Miss C.
here reviews the previous "messages" as follows]. 1 and 2 suggest Alice,
3 might bo she. I think it is she. 4 I can't make out any more than before,
except that Tom must be Mt. Tom. 5 can't remember. 7 might be Alice's
sister that was with us. Miss Judson. Miss Ross.
[This is a very remarkable guess all the way through and is correct in
every detail. I, of course, intended Miss Alice M. to be the person whose
identity was to be determined, but I had included her sister in this
4. Com. : Say that again. A e. No, try once more. What
€20 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
" message," and the others somewhat as a foil against too great confidence
at this stage Any one of them might have sent the "message," and the
only clue to Miss M. was the first person of the pronoun, and even that was
hidden in an equivocal and broken sentence, so that it might be taken as
denoting the care of the sister in holding the reins rather than Miss M.'s
care in putting down the columbines. But the extremely indefinite nature
of the "message," with hardly even a fair hint of the ride intended, makes
the constructive interpretation one of the most remarkable things we can
imagine, considering the disposition of some of us to attribute the liability
to illusion in far more specific and definite incidents in the Piper case. The
sudden inclination, as if by inspiration, to study the previous questions for
cumulative evidence, and the correct judgment regarding their pertinence
for Miss M., are most interesting as illustrating how slight the clue may be
for correct identification, and how correct the "sitter" may be in con
structing the true meaning of the communicator out of the most broken
and confusing messages. The facts are these. The party had gathered
some columbines for Miss Ross on Mt. Holyoke, and on the way home the
runaway occurred. Miss M. carefully laid the flowers down in the buggy
and took hold of the lines or reins to help her sister check the running
horse. Miss Judson and Miss C.'s sister were in the carriage ahead, and
Miss C. had all her solicitude for Miss Ross. How little of this is told in
the "message" is very apparent. It is also the first "message" in which
the slightest allusion to it occurs. The correct interpretation and construc
tion of it, therefore, becomes little less than amazing, and added to this is
the very slight clue to the name Alice given in " message " 4. The experi
ment might have been stopped at this point but for the fact that, although
the guess was right both in regard to person and incidents intended, I had
shaped the situation so that there was no proof that Miss M. was the only
person who, in spite of the first person of the pronoun, might have sent the
"messages."—J. H. H.]
8. Com. : Do you remember my meeting Who was
it ! Say it now. M . . . . MIS Speak clearly. M . .
H .... k .... s. What happened ? Oh, it was on a Sunday. You know
who I mean.
Rec. : "Mr. Haskins." This certain person meets Mr. Haskins. 1
am still not sure that Alice is right. Was it a Sunday, in the Percy House,
when I asked four or five girls to meet Mr. Haskins i
[The construction of the name "Haskins" was correct, and it was also
intended that the case should remain equivocal, as another person was con
cerned in the meeting.—J. H. H.]
9. Com. : Yes, yes, I forgot the ride. Those columbines, you know.
Come. She held the reins. Your sister and
J . . ds . . n. They rode ahead.
Rec. : Evidently my sister and Miss Judson did ride ahead. [She was
not positive about this before.] Refers to the same ride. The first dote
must mean Miss Judson or Alice's sister who held the reins in our carriage.
" Miss Judson."
[I had intended this "message" to suggest the ride, not having thought
that the first allusion in such vague terms would indicate it. Hence the
XLI.] 621
Appendix IV.
present one merely confirms the guess made in 7. Miss C. was correct in
regard to the person holding the reins.—J. H. H.]
10. Com. : Do you remember talking about Betty Parr and the day
order ?
This is the main thing one recalls. She is near me. A
F Wait, be patient. Al w. Sounds like
no, she's gone. I caught it all but the last. Alles, but it wasn't
German.
Rec. : How idiotic. "Alice M." " Alice M." [Significance of "Alles"
not guessed.]
[The guess is correct and it is evident that the receiver becomes more
confident of this correctness, as the answer to the next "message" which
follows makes clear.—J. H. H.]
11. Com. : In the fall, when the mellow ground awaits the stealing on of
the frost, what a jolly time we girls had. You have mountain day yet, I
suppose. I never see or feel this freedom. I am shut up among the mul
titude, and can only think, and think how fine it would be to have a ride
again on Hollyhock What's that ? The mountain, I said. Only we
must not run away with Miss Ross.
Rec. : Am quite sure of the person now.
[The word "mellow " is a play on the name of the communicator Miss M.,
and she is at present in New York, so that the general allusion to her being
in the multitude was intended to turn the guessing away from the others
included in "message " 7. It was successful, more so than I had expected,
and I might have stopped with the next " message " with all the certitude
that is necessary could I have anticipated the result as it is.—J. H. H.]
12. Com. : You told my hand. You know where that was. King Street,
wasn't it 1 If I remember rightly one of the ladies in the buggy in front
of us was there. She will recall me.
Rec. : Alice told my hand, not I hers, except perhaps in fun, when
she told mine. Alice's sister, Miss Ross, and myself were there. Per Mrs.
R., and two or three others.
[Reference to the incidents from which I worked up this " message " will
show that I had deliberately reversed the order of "telling the hand," with
the purpose of putting a mistake of memory in the mouth of the commu
nicator. The receiver, it will be noticed, makes the proper correction, and
allows for an illusion of memory in herself as possible. —J. H. H. ]
13. Com. : What did we do after the prom, last June ? Remember the
door. It would have taken some gymnastics to get in. Oh, yes, I forgot
the Russian tea at Miss Park's. That's it. But it has nothing to do with
the prom. I was just thinking of being shut out after 11 o'clock when I
all at once recalled the tea.
Rec. : Refers to Miss Park's tea in 6. I thought of Miss Park
when I saw that.
[Miss G. either did not catch the meaning of the allusion to the
"prom." or there were reasons for not indicating what it meant. The
allusion in No. 18 rather intimates uncertainty regarding the incident here,
or even no consciousness of it at all, though I had intended it to be so.
022 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
specific as not to fail of bringing the guessing down to two persons, exclud
ing all others.—J. H. H.]
14. Com. : To whom did you talk basket ball, making the rules, and
whom did you wish to write about gymnastics ? Maybe it was some one
else.
Rec. : Miss M.
[The talk about basket ball was with Miss M.'s sister, but it was Miss M.
herself who was asked to write about gymnastics, and as this is the point »f
interest in the "message" after the previous ones the answer may be con
sidered correct, and perhaps the talk about basket ball is forgotten or
mistaken for a talk with Miss M. herself.-—J. H. H.]
15. Com. : Now I have the name. Has Hasn't. No, spell
it. H . . S K . . . S K N S. Go out and come with it again.
Ree. : "Haskins," of course.
[This "message" was intended to make sure of what might fail in
No. 8. The object was to increase the chances of correct guessing as the
experiment advanced. The next "message" has the same object. —
J. H. H.]
16. Com. : Sunday in your room It was in the afternoon. HACKINS.
M No, it was a man. H A S K . . . . S. I met him
there.
Rec. : Ditto. (That is " Haskins.")
[There was, of course, no chance of mistaking the meaning of the name
in this case if it failed before, but no mention is made of the person whom
it was intended to suggest. Put the use of the pronoun " she " in the reply
to the next "message" shows that Miss M. was evidently in mind.—
J. H. H.]
17. Com. : Do you remember the Virginie vales ? Wasn't that it ?
Hard to catch lady Oh yes, she was there. I took
your picture. A L L E S L . . . . s.
Rec. : Don't see what she means by " Virginie vales." Yes, Alice
was here last June, and she took Virginia Vales' picture and mine.
"Alice M." [I did not notice at thw time that no notice was taken by
Miss C. of the "lady" in this number.]
[The guess is correct throughout in this case. Both names are rightly
indicated, and it is probable that the word " lady" was the clue to the right
interpretation of "Virginia Vales."—J. H. H.]
18. Com. : Remember the talk What's that 1
.... self ....... after the Prom self tice.
Only a year ago.
Rec. : What is she talking about Prom ? Don't remember that she
was here at the Prom,—unless she means the June promenade. Yes, there
were Alice and I and two men from Amherst. Don't remember the subject,
but the conversation was interesting and serious.
[The right guess is made here and the identity is narrowed down to the
correct person, but it is interesting to remark that Miss M. gave me the
incident of the talk about self-sacrifice as one which could not mistake her
identity. It was regarded by her and her sister as the most specific of all of
XLI.] 623
Appendix IV.
them. But Miss C. does not remember this feature of the occasion, while
she does other incidents of it that Miss M. mentioned to me, but which I
have not put into the "message."—J. H. H.]
19. Com. : How long did we wait ? Speak
clearly wait to shake hands with P R E S
NT T N s.
Rec. : We were going, and Alice said we'd better wait and shake
hands with President Tompkins at the reception in June.
[This question whs intended to draw tho experiment to a close by
making the intended incident clear beyond doubt, and the name was very
thinly disguised. The right construction is put on it. —J. H. H.]
20. Com. : I took your picture under the lilac bush near the PUT....
M H . . U S E. I called on you just before and you asked me where I was
going for the summer. Now I have it. The talk was about self-sacrifice.
That runaway came nearly being that of another kind. Miss Ross will
remember. A L K. M Gone.
Rec. : Don't recall now that that was the subject of the talk. " Alice
K. M." [Miss C. probably did'nt think it worth while to give Putnam
House. And, of courso, there was no particular point in the thin veiling of
such names as Miss Judson, President Tompkins, and Mr. Haskins, an old
friend of hers ]
[This reply explains itself and so does the purpose of the " message."
The certitude wanted was actually reached in No. 11, and there is no reason,
but the completion of the record, for going farther, except to discover the
discrepancies of memory between communicator and receiver I had in
mind, too, the more thinly disguised names of other persons than the com
municator, as this is often a feature of the Piper case. But it is worth
remarking that the identification is accomplished here, as usual before the
name of the communicator appears to give any definite clue, and at no time
is it clearly given. Incidents alone are sufficient for the purpose of identifi
cation.—J. H. H.]
624 [part
H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
APPENDIX V.
EXPERIMENTS IN COMMUNICATIOn.
The allusions by some of the " communicators " in the Piper
experiments and their difficulties in giving proper names, suggested to
me the propriety of instituting certain experiments more or less in
imitation of these imaginary conditions to see whether the result would
in any way confirm our conception of the case. I had in view, of
course, the illustration of other points at the same time, namely,
phonetic errors which might grow out of resemblances in sounds of
different words with different apperception points, or the existence of
none at all in the receiver. Hence, I undertook to try communication
of certain messages through a speaking tube from my kitchen to my
library, containing frequent use of proper names and words singly
or combined that resembled in sound words with very different mean
ings. I shall comment on the vesults after giving them. But I had
first to test for the conditions that would insure some indistinctness in
the communications. Hence, I placed my subject, an assistant in my
work, at the end of the tube in the library, and at such a distance from
it as made talking into it not very clear. I tried at first six inches
distance, while I held my mouth while speaking about four or six inches
from the other end which was not more than ten feet distant, though
separated from the receiver by the floor. The two bends in the tube,
itself about an inch in diameter, were the only obstacles to the trans
mission of the sound. But I soon found that the receiver was too near
the tube, and my voice too loud to make the necessary indistinctness
in the case. I altered these conditions until there was difficulty in
hearing the sounds or words. The receiver held his ear about eighteen
inches from the tube, I, my mouth about six inches from the other end,
and I spoke in an ordinary conversational tone, though very slowly,
and with as clear articulation as possible, the object being in speaking
slowly to permit the receiver to take down the words as they were
uttered. When I had secured the conditions for indistinctness I began
the experiments whose results were as follows. I have arranged the
passages that I read or spoke in one column, and the same as received
in another, so as to facilitate comparison. They will almost speak for
themselves, and anyone familiar with the Piper phenomena will
discover at once the resemblances to them in these results.
We require, however, to be cautious about mistaking the nature
of these experiments. They do not prove the facts which they
Appendix V. 625
illustrate. We do not know that the conditions of spirit communi
cation, if such exist, have any resemblance to those which I have
described in these experiments. At the utmost these results only
illustrate the case from the standpoint of the narrators' statements
regarding the analogies between communication from a transcendental
world, and the same under conditions that we know. Hence, it must
not be supposed that I am proving anything in favour of either spirit
communication in general, or the difficulties of it in particular. All
that I can be supposed to have done is to have suggested a field for
a very large system of experiments to establish the relation between
the communication of familiar and unfamiliar sounds under the
conditions indicated, and the difficulty of getting proper names in like
conditions. The experiments can be varied in a thousand ways, and
many points in apperception illustrated and determined. In so far as
they bear upon the Piper case, my results can be taken for mere illus
trations of what may be natural in accepting the analogies which the
communicators indicate between the conditions under which they
communicate, and those which the language suggests. The confirma
tion of the peculiarities of the Piper phenomena does not carry with it
any evidence of either their genuineness or their significance, but only
suggests the limits of our knowledge in the case, while it intimates
what may be true if we could only ascertain the nature of the alleged
communications, and the conditions under which they occur. This may
be the case on any theory whatsoever, and I do not care to limit the
possibilities to the spirit theory alone, though I suspect that we should
most naturally conceive their superior pertinence to that hypothesis as
compared with the telepathic.
Communicator.
1. From Woodstock the Commis
sioners removed unto Euelme and
some of them returned to Woodstock
Sunday.
2. Do you remember Jemmio
Rocheliffe and his tableau in the
windlass horse and how he didn't
find the climb at the mountain side
very agreeable ?
3. Do you know, prithee, Jennie
Cawell, Callwell, Cowell, Cauldwell,
Coehill who sang ditties in the pre
sidential election and was put out of
the United Presbyterian Church in
consequence.
L/ s
Receiver.
1
some .
2. Do you remember James Row-
cliff, and his in . . .
horse and how he the
3. Do you know .
who sang
presidential connection
. . was ... of .
United Presbyterian Church
626 /. H. Hyslop, Ph.D. [part
4. Mr. Wildrake says Mb son
Everard will not come yet, but is
good for a long stay with his damaged
business.
5. Tomkins had met Kerneguy at
Bristol and said he tried Joceline
,Joliffe until he could not move for
a while. Wennie Budge, a little
crone of his master, thought he was
to call for Phoebe Mayflower, and
bring Lodge with him to the table
d'hote.
6. Striking Arthur's shoulder with
the frank bluntnessof a mountaineer,
he said aloud : " Yonder bolt of
Ernest whistled through the air like
a falcon when she stoops down the
wind '. " And then proceeded in a
low deep, voice, " You merchants sell
gloves—do you ever deal in single
gauntlets, or only in pairs." (Scott's
Woodstock.)
7. This night, both strange and
differing noise from the former, first
wakened Captain Hart, who lodged
in the bed-chamber, who, hearing
Roe and Brown to groan, culled out
to Cockaine and Crook to come and
help them, for Hart could not now
stir himself. Cockaine would faine
havo answered, but he could not,
not look about ; something, he
thought, stopt both his breath, and
held down his eyelids. Amazed thus,
ho struggles and kickt about, till he
had waked Captain Crook, who, half
asleep, grew very angry at his kicks,
and multiplied words, it grew to an
appointment in the field ; but this
fully recovered Cockaine to remem
ber that Captain Hart had called for
help. " Come hither, O, come hither,
brother Cockaine."
4 says
. . not come
. . . business
5. Tompkins has met Carnegie
Argu
ment a
a while but he
was too and
when not
(i. Striking frank
of
find when
she stoops and
then proceeds in
order, Do merchants sell . . .
turnips.
7. Night . . . change and
first
who .
, . . . and
. called out to
and cook .... and .
him not now stir
himself
answer nor look
about . Some
. . . troubles
. . . . cook
. improvise
but this
. . . . called for
come hither, O come hither, prythee,
come here.
The first incident of some interest is the mistake of " James " for
" Jeminie" which I had chosen to suggest the possible mistake of
Jennie, if the right name was not given. I was surprised on comparing
XLI.] 627
Appendix V.
results with my data to find that the rest of the name, phonetically,
was correct. The subject explained, before I had the opportunity to
express my surprise, that he recognised this promptly because he knew
a friend by this name. I had used the expression " windlass horse "
purposely to suggest " windless house," " didn't " to see if the " not "
would hf omitted, and "climb at" to suggest with what followed, the
word "climate." But too little was caught to create even an illusion.
The third case shows the interesting failure to get the proper
name, though repeated here in several forms as attempt to get the last
form. But the words obtained show that a person was clearly in mind,
but nothing comes to give evidence of identity. The mistake of " con
nection " for "election" is interesting. But the whole is meaningless.
In the fourth case, both proper names are failures. The second name
I intended to suggest Edward, if it was not gotten itself. The fifth
explains itself with the interesting mistake of " Carnegie " for
" Kerneguy." It appears also that the word " thought" is interpreted
as " but." It is impossible to tell what suggested the word " argument."
The sixth case also requires no comments except to remark that no
proper names are received, and the word " turnips " is a funny mistake
evidently for "gauntlets."
The last instance is, perhaps, the most interesting, as the confusion
is more sustained, and the mistakes more striking. Here, we have
"change" for "strange," "troubles" for "struggles," "improvise"
for " multiplied," and " prythee " for " brother," and also " come here "
for " Cockaine." Not a single proper name is obtained. If " Cook "
had been capitalised, it would have been conceived by the receiver as
a proper name, but such a conception was not suspected, while it only
approximates in sound the real name. Not a particle of the thought
is obtained.
How far the results represent greater facility in getting the words
having the most familiar sound and the most frequently used, this
single experiment cannot determine. We should probably forecast what
would be the case from what we already know in psychology, and might
not require experimental evidence to support it. But the facts as fat-
as they go sustain the position that proper names are more difficult to
communicate, and that familiar words of a simple sort are obtained
most easily.
Second Experiment.
Communicator. Receiver.
1. At the following Postal Tele- 1. At the following
graph Offices :— offices :—
08, Broadway, Williamsburg. 98 . . . Williamsburg
2, Court Street at the junction of . . Court St., at the junction of
Fulton Street. St.
2 s 2
628 /. H. Hyslol), Ph D. [part
7, Greene Avenue, at the junction
of Fulton Street.
453, Fifth Ave., near 9th St.
77, 7th Ave., Corner Berkeley
Place.
1105, Fulton St., near Ormond
Place.
1458, Fulton St., near Tompkins
Ave.
332, Court St., near Sackett St.
DAY BROTHERS, Drugstore,
Ralph Ave., and Broadway.
746, Flushing Ave., near Broad
way.
203, Ewen St., near Ten Eyck St.
31)5, Do Kalk Ave. , near Hyerson
St.
2. Kingsley. "TheGreek Heroes."
Hawethorne. "The Wonder
Book," "Tanglewood Tales," "Twice
Told Tales."
Church. " Stories from Homer,"
"Stories from Herodotus."
Lanier. "The Boy's King Arthur."
Cheney. "APeepatthePilgrims."
Mrs. Child. "The First Settlers
of New England."
Spofford. " Is ewEngland Legends. "
Irving. " Knickerbocker's His
tory of New York." " Life of
Washington."
Beacon Biographies. Farragut,
Webster, Lowell, Phillips Brooks,
Robert E. Lee
3. The definition of psychology
may be best given in the words of
Professor Ladd, as the description—
4. What do you think of the
weather, and its results on the
Dreyfus case ? I do not see why
Panizzardi and Schwartzkoppen did
not testify in it, even if it was warm.
I suppose the young Emperor could
not very well play the role of world
reconciler.
7
Hundred 50th St. . . 99th St.
77
7000 .... in near College
Place.
1388 .... near Tompkins
Ave.
. .2 . . St. near .... Second
St.
Day Brothers. Drugstore . . .
736. Flushing Ave
215, New St. ... near Ten
Eyck ... near
. ... St.
2. Kingsley
Hawethorne. The Wonder Book.
Tanglewood Tales
Church
.... The Boy's
. . . a peep at the . . .
Mrs Chubb. The First Settlers
of new England.
New England Worthies.
Irving. Knickerbocker (?) History
of New York. Life of Washington.
Webster Phillips
Brooks Newman.
3. The definition of . .
may be best given in . ...
Professor Ladd, as the description—
4 of the murder
and its results on the ....
. . . I do not think I . . . .
. . . testimony
was I suppose the
young Emperor could not very well
send the old regi
cide.
XLI.] G29
Appendix V.
5. Our leadership in the domain 5. Our in the . .
of China and glass becomes more . . of China and Japan
evident every day. We are eclipsing come more . . . every day.
the victories of our own past. The We are .... the interests
business is carried forward by the of our own .... The busi-
magnetismof poerlessvalues. French ness is carried on by the menaces
sorbet sets, liquer sets, glasses for
creme de menthe, iridescent glass— . . irritating
it shimmers, twinkles, and changes in perhaps
different lights. Ginoris Maiolica
ware, the euphoneous name indicates .... idle origin,
its Italian origin.
ti. Alle Koerper sind ausgedehnt. 6. Allah allah . .
Alle Koerper sind schwer. Dass alle . sind schwer. Das ist alle . . .
unsere Erkenntniss mit der Erfah- . . anfang . . daran . . .
rung anfange daran ist gar kein kein schw ....
Zweifel.
7. Structure of the nervous system. 7 of the . . . ,
Distinction between neurally and physic. The distinction between
non-neurallyorganised beings. Nerve neurally and non-neurally organised
elements. Characteristic of centers beings Character-
and connecting lines. Fibres. Con- istics connecting
nections between centers and peri- spinal
phery. Sensory and Motor. Cells
Ganglia for the reception and distri- sensory
bution of impressionsand movements gangalia cords . . . perception
consist of gray masses of matter. and disposition of
8. The celebrated definition of
Tragedy in the Puetics may, I believe,
be fairly paraphrased as follows.
"Tragedy is a representation of an
action noble and complete in itself,
and of appreciable magnitude, in
language of special fascination, using
different kinds of utterance in differ
ent parts, given through performers,
and not by means of narration, and
producing by pity and fear the alle
viating discharge of emotions of that
nature."
8. The celebrated
. of in the .
fair
as follows is
a representation of the action .
the self .
. appreciable magnitude .
of sufficient conserva
tion, using different kinds of . .
. . . in the different objects . .
and
not by ...
discharge of motion of .
9. Well, how did you like your 9. Well how, did you like your
vacation in the west ? You remember vacation in the west ? . .. re-
Illinois / Springfield and Chicago member Illinois ?
630 H. Hyslop, Ph.D. [PART
ought to please you, but Kohlsaat
might not bo so interesting, even if
he is the friend of McKinley.
10. Wohin gehen alle Menschen
waun sie sterben ? Glauben Sie dass
sie untersinken, order sollen sie
noch leben in einer anderen welt i
It is a fine day. I hope it will not
rain. The sky is clear now, and it
may continue so until we get back
from our walk.
11. Arnold Biederinan was as an
especial advocate for peace, while its
preservation was compatible with
national independence, and the honor
of the Confederacy ; but the younger
Philipson soon discovered that the
landammau alone, of all his family
cherished these moderate views. The
opinion of his sons had been swayed
and seduced by the impetuous eloqu
ence and over-bearing influence of
Rudolph of Donnerhugel.
12. Upon the Restoration, Doctor
Rochelifferegained hislivingof Wood
stock, with other church preferment,
and gave up polemics and political
intrigues for philosophy. He was
one of the constituent members of the
Royal Society.
13. Outside the blind spot the
sensibility of the retina varies. It is
the greatest at the fovea, a little pit
lying outwardly from the entrance of
the optic nerve.
. . . Chicago
but Kohlsaat might not bo
so interested in — even if he is a
friend of McKinley.
10. (Recognised firstwas German.)
dass ich alles unter-
schen, oder sollen sie noch . .
ander .
It is a fine day. I hope it will not
rain. (The sky is clear) now and it
may continue so until we get back
from our walk.
11. (French didn't get it.) . . .
while its
preservation was
national tendencies and the honour
of the Confederacy . . . younger
soon discovered .
. of all . . . honour and cher
ish
the opinion of his sons had been
by the
impetuous eloquence and over
. of Rudolph . .
12. Upon their estimation, Doctor
. of wiih other
judge (?) employment
. constituted
of the Royal Society.
13 sensi
bility of the retina
. . . . greatest
out
of entrance of the optic nerve.
The first passage was chosen with reference to proper names and
addresses in particular, as it shows itself. The experiments were
conducted precisely as before. The mistakes generally speak for them
selves. They easily indicate what illusions the sitter may act under
when he takes definite communications of addresses for guidance.
It was interesting to note that the receiver did not get Broadway,
Xu] 03 1
Appendix V.
but did get Williamsburg, as the former is the more familiar of the two.
But even more familiar sounds than this are unperceived in this case.
The mistake of " College Place " for " Ormond Place " was interesting,
as possibly a subliminal association of the name Berkeley in the
previous sentence, and not heard supraliminally. But the most mis
leading error up to this point is "Second St." for "Sackett St.," also
" New " for " Ewen " is interesting.
The second instance was chosen for proper names, and the apper
ception mass which they are calculated to excite, and hence, we should
expect, when the receiver is familiar with the works of the author, that
he should more easily recognise the sounds connected with the name
already recognised, and also that the opposite would take place when
he did not know the names of authors and their works. These
suppositions were borne out in the results, which speak for themselves
very largely. Kingsley, Church, Lanier and Cheney would have failed
to have identified themselves in these messages. Hawethorne's message
was perfect. Spofford did not get his name, and would have depended
wholly upon the title of his book for recognition, which would have
been a poor test. The mistake of " Mrs. Chubb " for " Mrs. Child " is
very interesting for its actual approximation to the right name, but
also for the difference which it exhibits to the eye. The name of
" Newman " for " Robert E. Lee " is a remarkable error, and hardly
conceivable. What a judgment it would suggest if a spirit made this
mistake !
The third passage for communication was chosen because the
receiver was known to be perfectly familiar with it. It was not long
until it was recognised, and the fact stated, so that it was unnecessary
to go farther. But the crucial word at the beginning was not gotten,
and only when the proper name was obtained did the clue appear for
the rest. The next, the fourth case, is especially interesting as illus
trating the entire failure to obtain any conception whatever of the
message intended. "Murder" for "weather," send" for "play,"
"old" for "role," and "regicide" for "reconciler," and the complete
omission of the proper names makes the whole passage unintelligible.
In the fifth, the receiver's habit of associating Japan with China,
is the explanation of the mistake of this name for glass. Unfamiliar
words are missed, and the confusion of others is almost inexplicable.
'Interest" for "victories," "menaces" for "magnetism," "irritating "
for " iridescent," and " idle " probably for Italian, are striking and
wholly unexpected errors. The last part of the message also is inter
esting because it shows unfamiliar words, and a corresponding failure
in communication. On the whole, however, the passage as received
has too little resemblance to the original to indicate any intelligi
bility in it.
032 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
The German passage I gave in order to see whether it made any
difference in the communications before the receiver was told of the
intention to test him in this way. He reported that at first, he thought
I was giving him Arabic. But the moment that he got " sind schwer,"
he recognised that what he had taken for Arabic was German, but the
passage, which was taken out of Kant's Critique, was not received fully
enough to indicate its identity.
The next, and seventh instance, was chosen also for the familiarity
of it to the receiver. He discovered its identity in spite of its frag
mentary character and the mistakes. These last seem unaccountable
in several instances. " Physic " for " system," " spinal " for " lines, ' and
" cords :' for " for " are striking errors. " Perception " for " reception "
was a natural mistake to make under the circumstances which rather
favoured this apperception of the sound. The next is also wholly
unintelligible owing to the mistakes. "Sufficient conservation" for
" special facination " is a singular error, but " motion " for " emotion "
is quite natural. The proper names are missing as usual.
The ninth passage was taken because it represented references to
the receiver's own state with names and places that were familiar to
him. This is measurably successful, only one proper name failing.
There was some surprise in the receiver's getting the unusual name of
the German gentleman given, though it may be that the combination of
sounds in this name is especially favourable to recognition. The tenth,
containing a German passage with English of a very plain sort was
designed to test more carefully the question of familiar sounds, the
receiver being less familiar with German than English. The result
illustrates tne case very clearly. The English was all of it gotten,
that part in brackets arising into consciousness as the rest of the
sentence was coming. But the German shows no conception of what
was in my mind as communicator.
The eleventh is interesting, for tne fact, that what was received
suggests the American Confederacy, and would appear false under the
circumstances that would render the Swiss Confederacy pertinent.
The clue in what is received is too slight to give any hint of the real
reference of the communicator. In the twelfth instance, the chief
interest lies in the fact that the name Rocheliffe was not gotten,
though in the first experiment before, it surprised me by being obtained.
This sort of variation seems frequent in the Piper case. "Judge
employment" for "church preferment" is a singular error, and in the
last, and thirteenth message, the interest consists in the fact that the
receiver recognised, as I had intended, that the passage was from my
syllabus with which he was familiar. But he did not get it with
sufficient clearness to locate the subject with complete definiteness.
All that he could determine was that it pertained to the eye, but the
XLI.] 633
Appendix V.
essential clues in the words " blind spot " and " fovea " were missed,
and hence the communication might easily give rise to all sorts
of illusions.
But the most important feature of the whole set of experiments
is the result regarding proper names and words that are not the most
common in conversation. Wherever any set of terms seems to occur
that do not fall easily into the mass of apperception suggested by any
given term the tendency to either error or failure is very marked.
Long words noticeably show this failure if they are not very common.
The incident or clue has to be clear before there is any security that
words can even be guessed. Now proper names are notably terms
without connotative or descriptive meaning and hence the sounds
produced by them have little or no suggestive meaning. They must
naturally give rise to difficulties in recognition on that account, as
the apperceptive mass is the point de repire of all the most probable
interpretations. This principle applies to infrequent terms as well as
proper names. In fact the two are exactly alike in this respect, and
it is interesting to find that experimental results show precisely the
same characteristics in this respect. The general resemblance of the
Piper case to these conclusions is noticeable in the fact that
the vocabulary of easy communication seems limited. In two cases
I deliberately tried unfamiliar words and the difficulties here noted
occurred. The expressions that I used were " United Presbyterian "
and ''Presidential Election," and there was great difficulty in
getting them understood. In this case, of course, I was the commu
nicator. But either way the difficulty ought to occur, as we have the
human organism in the case of Mrs. Piper as the medium through
which the message has to be given, while the analogous case to these
experiments lies in the manner in which the " control " has to get the
communications from the " communicator." But aside from all
questions of spirit communication there is in these experiments a
complete duplication of the difficulties and errors in the Piper case,
with an explanation in the known laws of mental phenomena, virtually
indicating that such mistakes ought to occur with proper names and
unfamiliar words. And it is not a little interesting to note that the
confusion in my experiments is even greater than in the Piper
experiments as a whole. Very few of the messages in the present
experiments succeed in becoming intelligible at all. Freedom from
errors seems to be connected with the simplest language and the most
frequently used words. The variations between success and failure
are not so common as in the Piper phenomena. There is almost
uniform confusion in the present instance. But the error and confu
sion are like the Piper case in their characteristics, and rather indicate
that it is a wonder, assuming spirit communication at all, that we
034 [part
/. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
obtain anything intelligible whatever. This difference between the
cases suggests that possibly we have those variations of the mental
conditions for communications which I have marked in the conversa
tion with hypnotic subjects who have often, and perhaps generally, to
be prodded in order to retain the conditions for conversation at all.
If that supposition be correct we can understand the variations
between clear and confused messages in the Piper case, while the laws
that are marked in these experiments at communication will explain
the uniform difficulties in connection with proper names and less com
mon words, whether the communication is clear or confused.
Appendix VI. 635
APPENDIX VI.
Experiments in Hvpnosis.
Last spring one of my students came to me with the following story.
He said that he had been kuocked down at football and remained uu-
conscious for an hour and a half, and that when he had awakened from his
condition he had no recollection of this time or of the events that had taken
place while he was apparently conscious, as he had been told of some things
that he had done in his secondary state. He asked me to hypnotise him
and to see if I could throw any light on the matter. I promised to do so,
though I had not previously been very successful in hynotising people, and
arranged for the time of the experiment. My plan was to interrogate the
subject for the events and memories of the lost hour and a half, after the
manner of the Ansel Bourne case (Proceedings, Vol. VII., pp. 221-259). I
was somewhat handicapped at the outset by the fact that some of the
principal things which the subject had said and done had been told him by
his companions afterward, and hence I had but a margin to work upon for
traces of a hypnotic memory alone. However, I tried, and the following
are the results. I took complete notes at the time and wrote them down
immediately on my return home, so that the present record is not wanting
on the ground of any neglect in regard to the means of making it useful.
The first attempt was made on April 22nd (1899). I hypnotised Mr. L.
with some difficulty, taking some half-an-hour to effect somnambulism.
But as soon as I was assured of deep enough hypnosis, which I accomplished
in the usual way of trying various suggestions of an absurd sort, I began
with the question whether he, the subject, had ever played football. I
received the answer, "Yes," and asked, "When?" I got the answer,
"Last Wednesday." I then asked Mr. L. to tell me what had happened
after this during the whole time he had remained in this condition, not
expressing myself in exactly this language, but in a way to intimate my
idea. But I soon found that if I got the story it must be by dint of much
prodding, because the subject showed a drowsy condition and had to be
urged at the end of every sentence to go on with the story, by asking him
questions whether anything else occurred. In this way the following state
ments were made : —
" I was struck by the ball, but I did not know what happened to myself.
Mr. S. took my head on his knee. It was there about a minute and a half
I was then laid down. I did not get up right away, but felt all right in a
minute. I lay a short time, got up on my side and turned over. I said I
would lie down. Mr. Sa. (Sa. to distinguish him from Mr. S. above) asked
how I felt. All right, I said, but I did not know whathad happened. I walked
up the field with one of the boys on each side, Mr. Sa. on the right, I think,
and Van H. on the left. They took me up to the end of the field and laid
me down with my head on Mr. S. 's leg. I was not told this. I was there
about a minute and a half. S. told me I must stop and see the base-ball
ti36 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
game. I stood up and stood around watching the game as they kept on
playing. Then they took me by the arms and crossed out at the gate, up
the steps, across a little corner of grass down to the Gym. S., I think,
unlocked my locker and got out a part of my clothes. I had left them there
to play football. They gave me a shower-bath. This was at the end of the
Gym., nearest my locker. I used the shower-bath at the right hand side as
you go in about the middle, or if not there, the nearest as you go in. I
think 1 did not want to wet my head. I dressed myself and put on a
sweater instead of a shirt, and was taken to Dr. Savage's office and lay
down on a couch. Dr. Savage was giving an examination, but said that
I would not iiother him. I was told to go to sleep, but I did not do so.
Soon I began to realise where I was and awakened from my condition."
I had some difficulty in finding Mr. S. for an interview in regard to the
facts in this narrative, but at last succeeded in getting him on the 24th
inst. I had been very careful in the meantime not to say a word to Mr. L.
of what he had told me in his secondary state. I was careful also not to
explain to him what I had done until I had asked for confirmation or denial
of the facts told me by Mr. L. I simply asked him whether the incidents
in the narrative were correct or not, and he verified every one of them in
detail, except two. The tirst was that Mr. L. was not struck by the ball,
but suffered from collision with the head of another student. The second
was that Mr. L. did not turn himself over, but was turned over by Mr. S.
All the other details were correct except the equivocal statement about the
shower-bath, which was corrected, however, by Mr. L. in the statements of
the second experiment. Some of the main features of the incidents thus
narrated had been told him by the men who had taken him to the
Gymnasium after the accident, and cannot therefore be counted among
those belonging solely to the secondary consciousness. But Mr. S. told me
those which he had not mentioned to Mr. L. after the recovery of his
normal condition. They were the question of Mr. Sa. and L. 'a reply, the
crossing " the corner of grass," the getting of his clothes by S., the shower-
bath, "at the end of the Gym., nearest the locker," and the statement of
Dr. Savage that L.'s presence on the couch would not bother him in his
examination. What he had been told of these incidents consisted of the
names of the persons that had taken him to the Gymnasium, and none of
the details. But as the only way from the field to the Gymnasium lay
across the grounds, the passage through the gate, up the steps, and to the
Gymnasium, would describe as well what he must have done, whether he
remembered it or not, and could be imagined from a knowledge of arriving
at the Gymnasium. But crossing "the corner of grass" was no necessary
part of such a course, and, in fact, was out of the proper path, and
forbidden ; though students with their field-shoes on often seem to disregard
the rule on this point. On the whole, however, the incidents that had not
been told him are sufficiently numerous to exclude the supposition of
chance, and to support the contention in favour of a secondary memory
distinct from the normal state.
In addition to this confirmation, however, Mr. S. also narrated some
interesting phenomena occurring during the secondary state that Mr. L. had
not told me in either state. Mr. S. reported that Mr. L. asked on the way
XLI.] G37
Appendix VI.
to the Gymnasium what day it was, and remarked that he had asked the
same question a thousand years ago. Mr. L. also remarked to Dr. Savage,
as he observed the latter conducting the physical examination of some
student, that he himself, Mr. L., took that examination about one hundred
years ago. Mr. L. also remarked, according to the same authority, that he
had forgotten all his knowledge and that he would have to go to the "Prep."
school again and begin it all over. This Statemeiit was made to several
persons.
When he recovered from the daze he asked Mr. McK. to return the
ring which that person was holding while Mr. L. played football, and in his
spontaneous manner indicated to his companions that he had no recollection
of what had happened, they being naturally a little incredulous of his
asseverations.
It was nearly two weeks before I could secure Mr. L. for another experi
ment. But on May 6th I succeeded in this object. On this occasion I tried
some of the same and some further experiments. I found it more difficult
than before to hypnotise him, owing possibly to the presence of another
person in the room, one of my assistants. I had to make the trial a second
time before I succeeded, but when I did succeed the hypnosis was more
profound than before, since the answers to my questions were not so ready,
and there seemed to be more marked tendencies to drowsiness. I found on
inquiry before he had entered the hypnotic state that he could remember
nothing of the experiment two weeks before after I had begun the work of
hypnotising him. This was an evidence both of the genuineness of the
previous trance and of the unhypnotised condition of the patient at this
time. Afterwards I aided in bringing on the hypnosis by suggesting that
he should try to feel good and happy as he went to sleep. I obtained
evidences after the subject came out that this suggestion had had its
influence, as remarks of the subject on the return of consciousness indicate.
When I had satisfied myself that I had secured hypnosis, I asked Mr. L.
if he remembered going to a preparatory school, and received an affirmative
answer. I asked this question because, as the previous report indicates, I
had been told that he had remarked the loss of his knowledge and expressed
the fear that he would have to start at the preparatory school again. This
remark, as above indicated, he had made to his friends in his dazed con
dition after the injury in the collision. I then asked him if he remembered
saying anything about the loss of his knowledge, and he replied that he did,
that he thought he would have to begin study all over again, and that he
thought at the time that he was not all right, the last two incidents having
been given without further question or the influence from any suggestion
that a question might give. I then asked what the preparatory school was
to which he went, and he replied, "St. Paul's, in Garden City." I then
asked him if he knew anybody by the name of Van H., and he replied
" Yes," and I further asked whether this man had done anything for him
when he was dazed after the hurt, and he replied that " he was first end on
the right, and he himself (L.) was on the left end in the field." The mean
ing of this was not certain to me at the time, but I understood that it was
that Van H. was playing on the right and Mr. L. on the left in the game.
Inquiry showed that my interpretation was correct. The incident shows
638 [I'ART
./. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
that the normal state to some extent interpenetrates, even when not recog
nised as such, with the secondary state. So also do many of the other
incidents of a similar nature.
I then asked him with reference to his having made a remark about
something occurring a thousand years ago. He recalled having said some
thing about it, and added, spontaneously, that he "thought he had done all
these things before," referring to what had occurred to him after his hurt
and in the secondary state that followed it. But I could get nothing more
definite in regard to the meaning of this alleged memory.
I asked, further, about what he thought regarding the examination of Dr.
Savage, alluding, but without suggesting the matter definitely, to the fact
told me by Mr. S. My question was just as stated above. He replied that
he thought at the time that he had taken the examination before, but was
not sure, and thought he had not been marked.
I then asked him who took him to the Gymnasium and was answ ered by
the statement, "S. and N B ." I followed with the query, how he
had gone and he described his going as he did before. He said they " came
out of the gate, up the Library steps, and on the right side of the Library
crossing the corner of the grass, on the right corner by the tree where the
sign was, and down the steps into the Gymnasium at the right hand
entrance. "
Asked how long he was dazed he said, "one and a half hours;" asked
also where he took his bath, he replied at " the end of the Gym., towards Dr.
Savage's room in compartment on the right side, not nearest the middle, but
nearest the lockers." He went on to say, without further question, that S.
dried him, and that he then went out and sat down by the locker, stayed a
few minutes, got half dressed, and did not remember what he then did. He
did not remember going to Dr. Savage's room, but did remember lying on
his couch. He remembered lying there for about ten minutes, and then
nothing more.
At this point I began trying questions of a different sort and designed to
discover traces, first of his normal sleep life, and then of the connection
between both this and the secondary state and that between the latter and
his normal consciousness. I first asked him if he could recall any dreams.
He replied that he did not. I pressed the question, but received the same
answer twice more. I then asked him his name, and he hesitated some
time without being able to give it. I said, " I don't think you have any."
He answered, "No." 1 then asked, " How old are you ?" and received no
answer except the kind of half stammer of a person trying to think what his
age was, and I then asked, " About fifty ? " and the answer came promptly,
" Yes." (He is not over twenty-one or twenty-two, perhaps less.) I asked,
"Where were you born?" and he could not tell this, though I waited
awhile. I then said, " You have forgotten, have you i " and received the
answer, "Yes."
I then tried the following experiments. The patient was sitting on one
chair, his feet placed on another, and with his head cushioned on the back
of the chair upon which he was sitting, and his eyes closed. I was standing
between him and a table which was not more than two feet distant from his
body. I stood between his head and the table, so that even with his eyes
XLI.] 639
Appendix VI.
open he could not have seen me take anything from the table. Moreover, I
could reach anything I liked on this table without making any more noise
than would be caused by the friction of my clothes on the skin, and I could
also move it to the back of his head without his seeing it even with his eyes
open in the normal state, to say nothing of their being closed and him in
hypnosis.
I first picked up his glasses, which he had laid on the table before I began
my experiment, and held them about six inches from the back of his head,
opposite the cerebellum. I had done this in a manner that he could neither
see me pick them up nor see me move them to that position. I asked him
if he could not see what I had placed at the back of his head, and after hesi
tating a moment and receiving the question again, he said he saw my hand,
and when I asked what else, he replied, " A pencil." The fact was that my
pencil was in my left hand in front of him and visible to any one with his
eyes open. I then put down the glasses, picked up the ink-bottle as noise
lessly as possible and moved it to the back of his head as cautiously as I
could, and with movements to prevent any possible perception of it even
with open eyes in a normal state, and asked him again if he saw what was
there, and he replied with great promptness, " An ink-bottle." I then took
up a pink-coloured examination book with the number 416 written on the
cover, and asked him, after putting it at the back of his head, what he saw,
and received for reply, " A table with pen and papers on it." I last took
my watch out of my pocket while purposely talking to him to prevent his
hearing my movements, and held it at the back of his head, asking him
what he saw there, and he replied, "An ink-bottle again."
The prompt and interesting hit of the ink-bottle in the second experi
ment was a surprise to me at the time, and I tried the succeeding experiments
to verify the suspicion that it awakened. But their failure and the nature
of the answers suggested the probable source of the coincidence. His
supraliminal knowledge of the table and its natural contents, taken with the
suggestion to the secondary state from my movements, in spite of their
caution, most probably, or possibly at least, intimated the case of the table,
papers, and pen. Thus, the incident of the ink-bottle is easily explained,
the imagination of the objects being suggested by an inference from the
hypenesthetic perception of my movements.
Immediately after these experiments, I awakened the subject and asked
him if he remembered anything he did. He replied that he remembered
getting up and sitting down again, and that he was asked to do something in
the way of tests, until one of them created quite a strange impression. At
last, he said, he saw a square hole going down towards the centre of the
earth. " I felt conscious," he said, "when this started, and then something
came and told me to go to sleep, and I at once felt nice and enjoyable."
These statements are a tolerably good reproduction of what took place
after awakening him from the first trial of hypnosis half an hour before and
during the hecond attempt. I had thought that I was going to fail in the
experiment, as the signs of hypnosis did not occur, and awakened him to
test him and assure myself of what his condition was. I found that his
answers were favourable to a second attempt, and had him sit down again for
another trial, after saying that he might rest a few moments. I then began
640 [PART
H. Hyslol), Ph.D.
the hypnotising agiin in the usual way by passes over the eyes and forehead.
At last I told him to go to sleep and feel happy, because he was going to
have a nice time Soon after this I found him in hypnosis, as the tests
indicated.
He also remarked after coming out of the trance that he was deeper in
sleep than before (two weeks before) because he could not remember hearing
my voice this time.
Two days after, May 8th, and without divulging anything told me either
to Mr. L or anyone else, I had an interview with the N B men
tioned by the subject in hypnosis as one of the parties who took him to the
Gym. But I found that this person did not go with him. He did, however,
walk with him to the gate of the ball field, and could not remember who it
was that did accompany L. to the Gymnasium. Mr. B., however, remem
bers that Mr. L. asked him a number of incoherent questions during his
dazed condition after the hurt, and among them, as an example, he asked
" how he (L.) had gotten his (B.'s) clothes on." Mr. B. had lent Mr. L. his
clothes to play in.
The fact that Mr. B. accompanied him to the gate accounts very readily
for the discrepancy in L.'s account, while the amount of error in it favours
the genuineness of the phenomena with which I am dealing, as against the
possible suspicion of foul play with me. It would be quite a natural mistake
to make in any confused state. The previous narrative does not contradict
it, as names had not been given.
An interview also with Mr. Van H. shows that he was not one of the
persons that accompanied Mr. L. to the Gymnasium. But ho did accom
pany him, as did Mr. B., as far as the gate at the entrance to the field.
Mr. Van H. also says that it was the collision of his own head with that
of Mr. L. that caused the hurt, and not a stroke of the ball, as I was told
in the first experiment. Nor was it a kick on the chest, as I had been
told in the first experiment, but forgot to record it. The failure of Mr.
L.'s memory at this point is interesting and natural, as he had insisted all
along, both in his dazed condition and also in his normal condition, that he
did not know how he was hurt. Mr. Van. H. said that as they brought
Mr. L. to the middle of the field after the hurt, he, Mr. L., did not seem
to know how he had been hurt, and, looking at the game in bewilderment,
asked if that was the way he was hurt. The confusion in the hypnosis at
this point then is interesting.
All three men, Messrs B., S., and Van H., confirmed the truth of the
other incidents in the narrative as given in hypnosis, even down to the
crossing at the right of the Library and over the corner of the grass where the
tree and sign were, except that the confirmation of this last feature was by S.,
who had accompanied L. all the way. After Mr. L. came out of the trance
I asked him where he had gone to the preparatory school, and received the
same answer as in hypnosis, "St. Paul's, in Garden City." A number of
the incidents had been told him after he recovered consciousness, such
as his queer remarks about having lost his knowledge, and thinking thnt all
this had occurred before. But some of the smaller and less striking inci
dents had not been told him in this dazed condition : for instance, that he
himself, Mr. L., was on the left end in the field. But this was, of course,
xu.] Gil
Appendix VI.
an incident of the normal consciousness. Nor had he been told the exact
direction of his course to the Gymnasium. The incidents of the tree and
sign and crossing the corner of the grass were also matters of supraliminal
knowledge in so far as previous habits were concerned, and would be the
probable course of men in athletic dress in spite of the rules to the contrary
in the institution.
Some days afterward I tried to repeat the experiments, but owing to the
accident of a sudden shock, liko the quiisi electrical shock which we often
experience as we go to sleep, Mr. L. was awakened, after a long attempt to
hypnotise him, and I did not have time to continue tho experiment.
Most of the incidents in these experiments speak for themselves, and it
requires no comment by me to explain their significance, if they have any.
They resemble the usual phenomena of hypnosis. But I may recapitulate
some of the points of interest. In the first place, there is no trace of a
connection between the subject's ordinary sleep and the hypnotic condition.
But these experiments are not sufficient to throw any light upon that question,
on one side or the other. There is, however, a decided connection between tho
normal and the secondary consciousness, though it is not one in which the
secondary consciousness seems to have any recognition that tho incidents
common to the two states belonged to a normal condition. But what
interested me most in the case was two facts. First, that connection
between tho primary and the secondary states which indicates a unity
of personal ground for tho phenomena, whatever disintegration we may
observe in the phenomenal unity of the two states, or perhaps, better,
whatever segregation we observe in the two series. There seemed to
be absolutely no conscious unity whatsoever between the two states,
though there is undoubtedly a subject unity in them. The second
and most interesting characteristic is the resemblance of the perform
ance to what we have to imagine is the case "on the other side " in
the Piper phenomena. I found that I could get nothing out of the subject
without constant prodding. The tendency to silent drowsiness was so great
that I could get him to talk only in answer to questions. Now, in the Piper
Reports, the allegation is that the " communicator " is in a dazed condition
and that it is difficult to get any statements from him. The confusion
certainly resembles what I here observe. I remember one instance precisely
like this. Phinuit, speaking to one of the "communicators," as if to arouse
him, says : "Don't go to sleep." Similar intimations seem to be frequent.
(See Proceedings, Vol. XIII, pp. 404, 466, and 473.) We cannot press this
analogy with any great assurance without many experiments and a larger
accumulation of facts. But it is worth calling attention to it here as a
suggestion of what needs observation. There seems also a suggestive
possibility in the subject's inability to give his own name, age, and birth.
Is there any connection between this and the similar difficulties and
hesitation with which "communicators'' in the Piper case give their own
names, though they seem more ready to give the names of others, as
noticeable here 't Mr. L. had spontaneously mentioned some facts
representing incidents of his normal life, and he mentioned others in
response to questions not calculated to suggest them ; but he had, in spite
of this, wholly forgotten his name, age, and time of his birth, unless we
G42 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
suppose that he should have been given more time, as in the Piper instance,
to give them. But whatever our view of the case, there is this phenomenal
resemblance between the two sets of facts.
New York, November 9th, 1899.
We, the undersigned parties to the incidents narrated in the abo%'e
account of experiments with Mr. Luin, aver that our part in them has been
one of good faith and honesty, and that we have not consciously done or
said anything that would impeach the character of the facts as reported
to Professor Hyslop by ourselves. To the best of our knowledge this is a
true account of the events as they occurred within our observation.—Very
truly,
Thomas Simons,
H. Van Hievenberg, Jun.,
Rai.ph; E. Lum.
Witness : J. H. Hvsi.op.
XLI.] Appendix VII.
APPENDIX VII.
Quotations bearing on the Mentai. Condition of the Communicator
whii.e Communicating.
It has occurred to me while reading the proofs that the reader
might wish to have the evidence for the position taken throughout the
Report that the communicator was not in his normal mental state while
communicating, at least for part of the time. There may be lucid
moments enough, but there are times when his mental state apparently
borders on delirium or the complete loss of memory, and something like
hypnosis or secondary personality. It will be convenient for the
reader to have the evidence for this collected together with the
references. I have; confined myself to my own Report in this evidence,
though previous Reports are i\mtv as full of similar indications of an
abnormal mental condition while communicating. Besides, I have not
incorporated in this list of indications the indirect evidence consisting
of certain confused messages, and various passages showing intrinsic
marks of some mental disturbance. The reader must determine these
for himself by a psychological study of the contents. I have
therefore limited myself to the direct statements of the communicators
and those messages which do not require study to ascertain the fact
asserted.
The first statement that indicates an abnormal mental condition
occurred in the first sitting, and shows of itself from the connection in
which it took place that it was one of those incoherences that we are
familiar with in deliria. It occurred just at the close of the communi
cator's effort when he had to disappear. It was the expression, " I say,
give me my hat " (p. 307). This was repeated in precisely similar con
ditions at the second sitting. " Give me my hat, and let me go " (p. 313).
A little later (p. 313) occurred, " I want my head clear. I am choking."
The attempt first to give the name of my uncle Carruthers ended in
calling him " uncle Charles," and I disowned him. The reply of the
communicator showed the consciousness of some confusion or difficulty,
"No, I am thinking . . . let me see" (p. 316). A little later he
said, " I know, James, that my thoughts are muddled, but if you can
only hear what I am saying you will not mind it" (p. 316). In the
same sitting at the close of a rather confused attempt to deliver some
messages, he said, " In a short time they tell me I will be able to
recall everything I ever did. You could be . . my . . . knew
G4-4 [l'AKT
./. B. Hi/slop, Ph.D.
does not ... I will have to go for a moment. Wait for me "
(p. 319). A similar remark was made at the next sitting, just after
the confused attempt to tell an incident about a fire. It was, " Do
you know that in a little while I will be able to recall everything I ever
knew " (p. 325). Just after a passage in which two chronologically
separated but psychologically connected facts were alluded to, the
communicator says, " I feel better now, James. I felt very much con
fused when I first came here " (p. 327). In reference to something
that he could not recall he said, " But strange I cannot think of the
word I want" (p. 330), and a little later regarding a similar matter,
"This is what I cannot think, and it troubles me a little, James,
because I know it so well " (p. 330). In reference to my sister Annie's
communication at the third sitting he said, " She has been here longer
than I have, James, and is cleaver in her thoughts when she is trying
to speak, but do not feel troubled about it " (p. 332). It is interesting
to remark that both statements are true. My sister died long before
my father, and her communications show decidedly less mental disturb
ance than his. A moment later my father said, after Rector,
apparently discovering something wrong, had remarked to me to move,
" Yes, my head grows lighter and lighter " (p. 332). At the fourth
sitting my father said, " My head seems clearer and I can see
you perfectly. I can see and hear tetter than ever. Your voice
to me does not seem so far away. I will come nearer dav by day "
(p. 335).
After some confusion about the medicine for which I had asked, he
said, " I seem to lose part of my recollections between my absence and
return" (p. 336). Speaking of the accordion which had been "given
him" to "hold" him, as the spiritistic lingo has it, he said, "I am
clearer when I see it " (p. 330). This is apparently true of all the
communications. In almost the next sentence occurs an automatism
quite like the references to his hat (pp. 307 and 313). "Where is my
coat. I iiegin to think of what I do not need " (p. 336). It is most
interesting to remark here that the communicator discovers that his
mind is wandering, and alludes himself to the incoherence. After
some confused message regarding several matters, apparently discovering
his difficulties, he said, " I assure you when I can get so I can 8peak
and say just what I like I will straighten out things for you" (p. 338).
A little later Rector says, " Give me something that I may hold him
quite clearly " (p. 338), indicating the effect of old articles on the
communicator.
When I had indicated that 1 did not remember the subject of our
conversation about Swedenborg, my father seemed to think that he
might have had the talk with some one else, and said, " In any case
I shall soon be able to remember all about it. I am so much nearer
XLI.] 645
Appendix VII.
and so much clearer now than when I vaguely saw you here, and when
Charles tried to wake me up here" (p. 341).
In Dr. Hodgson's sitting a number of interesting instances occur.
The communicator, my father, had had much difficulty in trying to
name the contents of a spectacle case that he had been asked to name,
and after one effort he said, " Let me go a minute and return I am
very blind, and begin to feel very strange " (p. 378). Immediately
after his departure Rector says, " He seems a most intelligent fellow,
but finds it difficult for him to remain long at a time. In time he will,
however, come very near, be quite clear, and do a great work for thee,
friend" (p. 379. Cf. pp. 372 and 384). A few moments later, in
explaining the difficulty of adjusting himself to the " light," father said,
" I think of everything I ever did. All in one minute it comes to me,
then seems to leave me when I try to express something of it to you "
(p. 379). At the close of a sitting, that of February Kith, Rector
remarked of him, " Friend, he is awakening, and seems very clear this
day " (p. 390). At the next sitting my father, alluding to the name of
a medicine which he could not recall, said, " I took at one time some
preparation of oil, but the name has gone from my memory. I know
everything so well when I am not speaking to you " (p. 392). After
some conversation between Rector and Dr. Hodgson regarding the
method of obtaining certain messages and Rector's explanation of
what was necessary, Rector said, " Friend, while speaking he is like in
comparison to a very sick man, yet when we take his objects it clears
him greatly for the moment " (p. 394). A little later my father says,
after some confusion and finding that he must rest, as it were,
"I cannot really say more to you now. I am getting weak " (p. 395).
The illustrations are perhaps quite as numerous in the last eight
sittings as in the previous ones, except that in the sitting of June 8th,
which was the clearest I had, there is only one conscious recognition of
the mental state connected with communications.
In the first message on May 29th my father said, " If I fail in my
memory think not for me, but let me think my thoughts, and they will
come to me in time, past memories and all " (p. 418). A little later he
said, " I am sorry if I mistake anything, but they tell me if I am
patient I will rememlxu- all " (p. 419). After a brief respite he said,
" I am thinking over the things I said when I was confused." Then,
alluding to his Ix'lief that he thought it " possible we might live else
where, ' but that communication was doubtful, he said, " We do speak,
although vaguely at times," and added, " What is on my mind at
present is the conditions which help me to return" (p. 420). Speaking
of my brother's disposal of the horse Tom, he said, "1 am thinking
about it now and everything I ever knew I believe, because my mind
travels so fast, and I try to get away from the rest as much as possible"
G46 [PART
./. //. Hyklop, Ph.D.
(p. 424). When I said that I did not remember the stool to which he
referred, he said, " Strange, I think, but when I go out I will think it
all over and see what I have told you " (p. 424). A few minutes later,
when I had indicated that my stepmother knew of the knife to which
he had alluded, and that I did not, he said, " Well, that will be all
right, but what I am anxious about is for you to know I am not for
getting anything, only I am a little confused when I try to tell you
what I so longed to do. I think of twenty things all at once " (pp.
424-425). In a moment he disappeared for a respite, and on his return
he immediately said, " Ah, James, do not, my son, think I am degener
ating because I am disturbed in thinking over my earthly life, but if
you will wait for me I will remember all, everything I used to know "
(p. 425). My cousin, Hobert McClellan, in his first attempt to com
municate remarked in the midst of his messages, " I am a little dazed
for the moment, but have patience with me, and I will be clear
presently" (p. 428). Alluding to the fire which had been mentioned
in an extravagant manner on December 26th (p. 324), and recognising
apparently his confusion about it, my father said, "There are some
things which I have said while speaking to you here which may seem
muddled. Forgive it, my son, and if you wish to straighten it ask me
and I will " (p. 431). A few minutes later in a confused passage about
my brother Charles, my uncle Carruthers, and apparently John
McClellan, he exclaimed, "Oh, speak, James. Help me to keep my
thoughts clear" (p. 431). After introducing my mother by name she
tried to communicate, but had to give it up with the statement, " I
want to speak of the rest, but I am too weak " (p. 432). A little later
my father said, "There is more than a million things I would like to
speak about, but I do not seem to be able to think of them all, especi
ally when I am here. It was not so long ago that I came here " (p. 433).
This last statement is most interesting in connection with the fact
which we have found empirically to be true, namely, that persons not
long deceased are generally not so good communicators as those who
have passed long before. Compare his allusion to my sister Annie
and the longer period of her decease (p. 332). After quite a clear
reference to Swedenborg on May 31st, he said, "Never mind, I am
clearing, James, and all will be well " (p. 438). Apparently my cousin
was communicating soon afterward, and in the midst of a very confused
set of messages, Rector said, " Wait a moment and he will return and
clear it up" (p. 439). The confusion seems not to have diminished,
and in a few minutes my cousin himself said, in response to a question
from me, supposing that I was dealing with the John McClellan that
was treasurer of the university I attended, "Well, of course, but you
see I am not quite clear yet, but it will surely come back to me" (p.
440). A little later, in response to my query as to who was speaking,
XLI.] 647
Appendix VII.
apparently Rector said, " It is father who is speaking now. But he
seems a little dazed " (p. 440). Father took a respite, and on his
return he said, " I am going to try and keep my thoughts straight "
(p. 441). Later, "I do not seem to be able to express all I want"
(p. 443).
After an allusion to myself my father said, " I am really too weak
to think more for you, James, and they seem not to hear me so well "
(p. 445). Presently he tried to say something about the Cooper inci
dent, and in the midst of much confusion he said, " I am confused,
James, and I cannot tell you what I wish, and I will try again. I am
going now," and he disappeared (p. 445).
On June 1st Rector said near the beginning, "And we wish to say
that we were somewhat confused at the closing of the last meeting
owing to the light failing us " (p. 448). This will be apparent to the
reader if he examines the record. When father began he said soon
after, "I intended to refer to uncle John, but I was somewhat dazed,
James" (p. 448-9). In a moment he said "I am all right while
Imperator is near me, and my memory comes back to me clearer "
(p. 449). Later I tried to have him name the cause of my uncle
Carruthers' death, and he having said pneumonia, which applied to my
uncle James McClellan, I said, " Do not worry about it now. It
will come again." My father's reply was, "I was only disturbed
because of the accident that I could not make clear, and Charles
interrupted me somewhat because he had a fever " (p. 450). The
allusions to the accident and to my brother's fever are important
incidents, and taken in connection with the facts of the record, the
confusion is quite apparent. Later on and after a very confused set
of messages regarding my brothers he said, " I am getting tired, James,
will rest a moment and return. This is a very heavy atmosphere to be
in " (p. 454). Toward the close of the sitting, after an allusion to
myself, he said, " I seem to go back to the old days more than anything
else. Don't say you wonder at this, that, and the other, but wait, be
patient—all will be clear to you some day. If I fail in my memory,
do not say, well, if that is father he must have forgotten a great deal.
I really forget nothing, but I find it not easy to tell it all to you.
I feel as though I should choke at times (Cf. p. 313), and I fail to
express my thoughts, but if fragmentary try and think the best of
them, will you ? " (p. 456). After a short communication from my
mother, who could not remain long, my father appeared and said, ''Now
let me tell you one thing more, and that is about the little errors
which I may make when speaking to you. I think many things all at
once, and when I try to give mention to them, I fail somewhat"
(p. 459). After the best message that my uncle Carruthers gave, my
father broke in with the allusion to my sister Lida, and said, "I had
648 [part
J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
to come to straighten out uncle Clark's mind, James " (p. 460). A little
later in alluding to the organ, he ejaculated, " Oh, what was that hymn
we used to sing so often 1" I replied, " Keep calm. It will come out
all right." He then went on, "Well, I will think of it presently, and
... is it all clear to you, or are you confused 1 " (p. 461 ). In the con
fused attempt to name the relationship of the John McClellan who had
recently died, my father said, " Now wait, I am a little confused myself "
(Footnote, p. 472). At the close of the sitting he said, "I feel, think,
and know as well as I ever did, and yet I am not able in this way to
express all I think. I may give out my thoughts in fragments, but if
I do I hope they may at least comfort you a little" (p. 475). In the
communications connected with the confusion about my stepmother's
name he said, apparently alluding to her, " Yes, but it was she who
made the cap, and you had better ask her about it. Sarah, SARAH.
Let me see what is it I wish to say. Ellen. Help me. Oh, help to
[U. H. puts leather spectacle case and brown knife on table, next to
hand. Hand moves back the knife and retains the spectacle case.]
recall what I so longed to say. My own mother Nannie. I . .
wait. I will go for a moment, wait for me, James" (p. 479). In the
name " Sarah " my father evidently recurs to the trip mentioned a little
before, as my aunt Sarah accompanied us on that trip, and forgets the cap.
The significance of the confused statement "My own mother Nannie"
is commented on elsewhere (p. 71, and Note 77, p. 524). In a sudden
interruption of his thoughts he exclaimed, " Now what did I . . . ,"
and recovering the thread immediately said, " Oh, yes, I then arranged
to go out there to live " (p. 482). Finally on June 8th, explaining his
mental condition on first coming to communicate, he said, " You see,
James, I was not wholly conscious when I came here, and I suddenly
thought of every one of my dear ones the moment I awoke " (p. 491,
Cf. p. 341).
There are many less striking passages bearing on the point which I
have not included in this list. The reader may remark them for him
self if he reads the detailed record with proper care. Besides, I have
not put down those automatisms in all cases which indicate the oncoming
svncope or unconsciousness which mark the disappearance of a com
municator (Cf. expressions "mother," "father," etc., in my uncle's
first attempt, pp. 315 and 316). Nor have I mentioned those broken
messages which clearly indicate the same fact of automatism or delirium
in any number of cases. The reader must wateh for them himself.
But it is an interesting fact to remark the communicator's frequent
observation that the confusion is due to defective memory (amnesia)
and rapid thinking when he can remember. We might suppose a priori
that this would be the case from the fact that the communicator is
divested of all motor functions for inhibiting the flow of his thoughts,
Appendix VII. 649
while they must at the same time be adjusted to the automatic action
of the motor functions in Mrs. Piper's organism.
Apropos of the statements about rapid thinking it may be of interest
to narrate a frequent experience of my own recently. I have been
suffering from a severe attack of nervous prostration, and I noted
during it many (perhaps hundreds of them) instances in which a thought
came into my mind and I tried to hold it before attention and could
not do so. They passed in a second into irrecoverable oblivion. I say
second purposely, as no more time than this in most cases elapsed
before the incident was gone. I could remember that there was some
thing which I wanted to remember, but the thought desired was too
evanescent, and would not respond to my effort. This is, of course, an
abnormal mental condition. I have remarked the same phenomenon in
the interval between sleep and waking. The same is a frequent charac
teristic of dreams. It is common also in functional patho-psychosis.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX TO VOLUME XVI.
(PART XLL)
1901.
Artici.es brought to Sittings for Identification 23, 48, 307, 323, 338, 367, 370,
371, 373-5, 377-80, 384-91, 394, 397, 479, 497-8, 648
" Aunt Nannie," Chief References to 27, 43-8, 61, 62, 69-74, 76, 80, 81, 85,
132, 133, 146, 171, 172, 192-3, 210, 232-3, 240,310, 331,
342-3, 305, 400-3, 407, 421, 449, 451, 459, 460, 463,
469-70, 478-81, 483, 493, 496, 519, 524, 526, 528, 529
Automatisms 238-41,259,260
(See also " Spiritistic Hypothesis "—Characteristic Phrases.)
,, Normal Automatic Krrors ... 238-40
B., Miss, Experiments in Identification, 616
B., Miss O. , Experiments in Identification 553
1$., Mr., Experiments in Identification 583
B. , Professor, Experiments in Identification 586, 588
Bourne, Ansel, Case of .. 271, 635
Brainwell, Dr. Milne, On Subliminal Appreciation of Time 154
C, Professor, Experiments in Identification 565, 567, 583
Caird, Dr. E., On Kant's Theory of Methods of Communication from
Discarnate Spirits ." 243
Carruthers, Mrs. Eliza, Chief References to, 27, 47, 80, 81, 85, 90-5, 100, 132,
146, 192, 193, 310, 314, 315, 317, 469, 470, 478,
491, 496, 519, 524, 528
,, ,, Evidence as to Incidents Communicatee!, 353, 354, 355, 528
,, James (Uncle Clarke) (Sec Communicators.)
Cartesian Conceptions of the Soul 225, 259
Communication Through a Tube, Experiments in 18, 624
Communications, Analysis Showing Proportion of Truth and Falsity in 118-21
,, Classification of Chief Incidents 131-33
„ Statistical Summary 116-23
ii Index to Volume XVI.
Communicator, Mental Condition of—while Communicating ... 249, 6+3
,, and Sitter, Possible Effects of Relationship between 122, 123,
257, 258
Communicators, Chief References to :—
Carnithert, James, 17, 26, 29, 64, 76, 90-5, 146, 173, 174, 192,
193, 222, 314, 315, 317, 353-5, 363, 422-23, 428, 431.
444-6, 450, 459, 484, 504-5, 513, 528, 529, 643, 647, 648
Hyulop, Anna, 17, 27, 96, 105, 108, 147, 205, 209, 307, 331, 358,
421, 425, 451, 482, 502, 644, 646
„ "Charles," 17, 23-5, 27, 94, 100, 147, 184-91, 205,
206, 307, 309, 310, 313, 316, 330, 350, 431, 440,
450, 455, 462-5, 513-7. 518, 645, 646, 647
„ Martha Ann (Mrs.) 21,26,306,308,431,458
„ Robert, 12, 17, 22, 26, 28-47, 48-93, 97, 109, 112, 131-33,
137, 160, 170, 189, 190-214, 221-38, 257, 308, 313, 316-22,
324-44, 347, 343, 351, 352, 354-62, 370-5, 377-9, 380-95,
397-416, 418 27, 429-38, 440-1, 443-5, 448-56, 459,460-3,
468-75, 478-81, 484, 485, 490-536, 643-9
MeClellan, Jamcs, 17, 26, 64, 65, 77, 108, 109, 146-7, 258, 445,
446, 450, 463-6, 470-3, 513, 520-1, 529, 536, 647
,, Robert Harvey, 63, 74, 95, 97, 108, 145, 164, 167,
205, 211, 223, 231, 258, 427-9, 433, 442, 443, 494,
505, 508-10, 514, 515, 518, 520-5, 532, 536, 646
Pelham, George (" G. P."), 15, 26, 73-4, 113, 155, 179, 181,
184-6, 188-9, 208-14, 235, 263, 264, 266, 300, 305, 429, 435,
440-3, 468, 479, 481-6
(See also Trance Personalities—Impcrator, Phinuit, Rector, &c. )
Controls of Mrs. Piper. (See Trance Personalities and Communicators.)
Cooper, J., R., and S., Chief References to 51-4, 111, 112, 132, 137, 169,
208, 386, 394, 397, 398, 410-3, 420, 445, 452-4,
492, 497, 499-501, 525
D., Mrs., Ca.«e of 33, 271, 474, 475
Dana, Dr., Case Recorded by 271
Dearlmrn, (!. S., Experiments in Identification ... 590
Delbamf, Professor, on Subliminal Appreciation of Time 154
Dice, Dr. J. P., Chief References to 94, 102, 103, 459, 460, 463, 517
,, ,, Evidence as to Incidents Communicated 329,356,517
Difficulties and Objections to the Spiritistic Hypothesis 242
„ ,, Argument of Idealism, The 246-7,259,260,261,
265, 285-8, 290
,, ,, Hearing of Earlier Reports upon ... 250-1
,, ,, Clairvoyance and Telepathy at aDistance 126,250-6
,, ,, Identity and Independence of the Trance Per
sonalities 262-8, 273-80
,, „ Mistakes and Confusions 285-8
,, ,, Objection from the Nature of Proof ... 244-7
,, ,, Relation of Secondary Personality to the
Spiritistic Theory 280-5
,, ,, Suggestion as an Explanation 12, 247, 248
,, ,, Telepathy and Secondary Personality 268-73,280-5
„ ,, Triviality of the Incidents 248-50,284,285-8
Index to Volume XVI. iii
" Doctor." (See Trance Personalities.)
Dramatic Play of Personality. (See Spiritistic Hypothesis.)
Douse, Mr,, On Automatic Errors 238
Dying, Consciousness of the ... 36-7
Edmunds, Miss L., Note as to the Arrangements for Sittings 34.5
Elder, David, Chief References to 109-11, 521, 5*2
,, Orville, Evidence as to Incidents Communicated 522
F., Dr., Experiments in Identification ... 579, 598
F. , Mr., Experiments in Identification 557, 558
" Fire" Incident. The (See Incidents.)
Floumoy, M., The Case of Helene Smith 267
Fraud, Considerations of the Possihilities of 5-10, 124, 291, 298, 299
(J., PBOFESSOB and Mrs., Experiments in Identification 609
Goodrich-Freer, Miss (" Miss X.") Experiences of 202, 271, 547
H., PROFESSOR, Experiments in Identification 576
Hallucinations, Relation of, to Secondary Consciousness ... ... 283,284
Hathaway Family (See McClellan, John.)
. Hodgson, Dr., Relation of, to Professor Hyslop's Experiments, 6-9, 13, 14, 17, 19
,, Sittings held for Professor Hyslop 31,119,367
"Hymn" Incident. (.See Incidents.)
Hypnotism, Analogy between Hypnosis and Apparent Condition of Com
municator while Communicating 249, 271, 643
,, Memory, Conditions of 249,271,635-42
,, ,, Revivals of, under .. 635-42
Hyslop Family, The :—
Anna. (.See Communicators.)
,, Prediction of her own Death 358,451
Charles. (See Communicators.)
Family, Evidence of Living Members of, to Incidents Communicated
35, 42, 50, 53, 57, 81, 82, 347-61, 363, 364, 3S2, 383,
392, 398-9, 406, 408, 409-16, 498-503, 507, 512, 516-20,
522, 531, 532, 534
Prank, Evidence as to Incidents Communicated 351, 352, 383, 392,
398, 409, 414, 415, 498, 512, 516
,, References to. (Sec Communicators, Robert Hifslop.)
George, Chief References to 23-5,27, 29, 42, 44, 62-5, 67, 69, 132,
133, 163, 170, 172, 307, 310, 316, 317, 337, 394, 401, 404-5,
423, 454, 461, 462, 491, 492, 493, 502, 512, 516, 531, 645
,, Evidence as to Incidents Communicated 502
Hettie, Chief References to 68, 71, 75, 101, 103, 104, 164, 207, 212,
434, 435, 440, 444, 462, 471, 473
Margaret Cornelia, References to 21,27,310,349,514
Martha Ann. (Sec Communicators.)
iv Index to Volume XVI.
" Nannie " (Mrs. Robert), Chief References to 47, 34, 55, 63, 69-74,
146, 162, 207 10, 240, 342, 343, 365, 387-8, 406, 419,
421, 424, 439, 441-2, 460, 478-80, 483, 484, 486, 487,
495-6, 499, 501, 525, 526
,, (See " Aunt Nannie.")
Robert. (See Cominunicators. )
(See also Carruthers, Eliza and James, and McClellans, The)
Hyslop, Mrs. James, Experiments in Identification with ... 553, 555, 596
,, Professor James Hervey, Ph.D., A Further Record of Observa
tions of Certain Trance Phenomena 1
L, Dr. V., Experiments in Identification 556
Identification of Personality, Experiments in 18, 169, 268, 537
Characteristic Differences between, and Mrs. Piper's Phenomena 542
Errors of Interpretation 546, 557, 560, 583, 592, 596, 599, 600
,, Memory ... 169, 544, 545, 554, 556, 559, 569, 572, 578, 579,
588, 589, 593, 603, 605, 612, 613
Method of Experiments 538-40
Mistakes and Confusions 540, 551, 609, 615, 624
Summary and Analysis 540, 552, 553
Identity, Personal—
Criterions of 158, 159
Proof of, the Key to the Whole Problem 246, 247, 290-1
Trivial Incidents, The Test of 248, 537-623
[See also Spiritistic Hypothesis, Characteristic Phrases and
Dramatic Play.)
" Imperator." (Sec Trance Personalities.)
Incidents in the Communications, Classification of Main 131-3
,, Fire Incident 34, 35, 133, 324-5, 364, 371-3, 430, 497, 603
Hymn 56, 87, 133, 166, 249, 389, 413
,, Munyon and Hyomei—(and details of Illness)— 35-9, 87,131, 132,
327-30, 336-8, 356, 360-2, 364-6, 381, 384, 388,
391-3, 397, 410, 413, 418, 420, 497-9
Organ 82, 83, 89, 131, 132, 133, 491, 492, 529-31
Swedenborg 31, 131, 166, 169, 341, 361, 365, 368, 370-1
" Tom, the Horse," 65,133,170,423,502
J., Dr., Experiments in Identification 580
J., Mr., Experiments in Identification 563
James, Prof., Experiments with Mrs. Piper 8, 9, 17
Janet, Prof., Hypnotic Researches of 269, 271, 272, 279, 287
K. , Professor, Experiments in Identification 576
Kant, Conception of Communication with Diwcarnate Spirits ... 243, 261
Kyle, Mr., Evidence on Incidents Communicated 535,536
Lang, Andrew, On the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper.. 9
Leaf, Dr. Walter, Experiments with Mrs. Piper ... 8, 17
Le Baron Case, The ... 154
Lodge, Dr. Oliver, Experiments with Mrs. Piper ... ... 8, 17, 228 9, 274
Luin, R. E. , Professor Hyslop's Hypnotic Experiments with 635
Index to Volume XVI. v
M., Miss, Experiments in Identification 616
M., Mr., Experiments in Identification 580
M., Mrs., References to 17,18,202,370,379,380,437, 458
Marvin, Dr., Experiments in Identification _ .. 547,559
McClellan, George, Reference to. (Sec Communicators—R. H. McClellan.)
„ Harvey, Chief References to ... 421, 422, 425, 491, 505-6, 523
,, James. (Sec Communicators.)
John, Chief References to 66, 97, 101, 102, 109, 110, 111, 263, 431,
438, 439, 443-6, 450, 471-3, 504-7
51), 513, 520-1, 535
,, Lucy. (Sec Communicators—R. H. McClellan.)
,, Robert Harvey. (Sec Communicators.)
McWhood, Mr., Experiments in Identification 558 9, 565, 579
Memory. Attempt to recover through Hypnosis 635
,, Illusions and Lapses of Normal... 214-20, 228-30, 507, 544-5, 551-6,
559, 569, 572, 578, 579, 588, 589,
593, 603 5, 612, 613
Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir, Sittings with Mrs. Piper 183
Munyon Company, Letter from 414
,, Incident. (See Incidents.)
Myers, F. W. H., Experiments with Mrs. Piper 8, 17
, „ „ On Problems of Personality 271
NAnnIE. (See " Aunt Nannie," and Hyslop, Mrs. Robert.)
Newbold, Professor W. Romaine, Experiments with Mrs. Piper 9
Newnham Case, The .. 154
Noopathy, Definition of the Term 125
Norton, Professor, Sittings with Mrs. Piper ) 183
OSBORXE, Miss, Experiments in Identification 555
P., Professor, Experiments in Identification 588
Parapathy, Definition of the Term 125
Patrick, Professor G. T., on Some Peculiarities of Secondary Personality 154
Peirce, Professor, Sittings with Mrs. Piper 183
Pelham, G. (" G. P.") (See Communicators.)
Personality. (Sec Identification of, Experiments in.)
Personality, Problems of—
Alternations of . 154
Memory, Conditions of 635
Secondary 152-4, 177, 241, 249, 262-4, 271-80
Dramatic Play of . ... ... 176
(See also Trance Personalities.)
Pierce, Dr. (Sec Dice, Dr.)
Piper, Mrs., A Further Record of Observations of the Trance Phenomena
of, by Professor J. H. Hyslop ... 1-649
Plato, on the Nature of Knowledge ... 233
Predictions, A Child's, of her own Death 358, 451
,, . Mediumistic 109, 110
Prince, Dr. Morton, A Case of Multiplex Personality ... 267, 269, 279
" Prudens." (Sec Trance Personalities.)
vi Index to Volume XVI.
Q. , References to 380
Quotations hearing on Mental State of Communicatorwhen Communicating 643
"Rector." (Set Trance Personalities.)
S., Miss, Experiments in Identification 572
Sidis, Boris, On Suggestion 154, 271
Simons, T., Evidence of, in Experiments with It. E. Lum 636-42
Sittings with Mrs. Piper, Detailed Records of 297-536
Slate-Writing, Alleged Phenomena of 14
Spiritistic Hypothesis, Discussion of—
Argument for, General Statement of ... 4, 16, 158, 260-2, 289-91
Automatism 238-41
Consciousness and Memory, Unity of 158-76, 184-90, 198, 220-1, 293
„ Synthetic Unity of Incidents 170-6, 184-90, 198, 293
Dramatic Play of Personality 176-214, 219, 224, 231, 236, 237, 255, 256,
263, 268-70, 277-85, 292, 293, 312, 441
,, Characteristic Phrases, &c, 22, 29, 34, 40, 44-6, 53, 54,
57-9, 61, 75, 88, 89, 106-8, 132, 133, 167-9, 189, 204,
223, 235, 236, 238-41, 307, 313, 314, 317, 318, 320-1,
328, 333, 334, 340, 348, 349, 351, 352, 373
397-400, 416, 420, 430-3, 437, 470, 474, 4^4
,, Differences between Mrs. Piper's and that of Ordinary
Secondary Personality 152-6, 255, 256, 263, 268-85
Intermediary Element 150, 151, 156, 179, 180, 235
Mistakes, Confusions, and Irrelevancies 155, 180, 202, 212, 214-38, 242,
319, 330, 408-9, 423, 436, 437
,, Re-construction of a Message 408-9
See also Difficulties and Objections 242
Statistical Summary of True and Ealse Statements 115-23
Subliminal Consciousness of the Lapse of Time ■■■ ... 154
" Swedenborg" Incident—(See Incidents.)
Tabi.e of Contents 1
Telepathic Hypothesis, Discussion of—
Argument, General Statement of 124-57, 295, 296
,, Special Arguments Against 137-57
Classification of Incidents bearing on 131-3
Magnitude of its Application 139-46, 154-6, 256, 292-6
Main Points bearing on 54, 69-74, 83, 94, 98-100, 104, 124-57, 161-3,
168, 177, 180, 185-90, 194-204, 207-11, 214-38, 242,
249, 251, 253-6, 268, 288, 289, 291-7, 318, 319, 321, 337,
361, 365, 377, 386, 429
Mistakes and Confusions 142-6, 214-21
Personal Identity, Absence of, in Ordinary Telepathy 126, 136, 168
Secondary Personality and Telepathy, Combination of 152, 268-73,
291,292
Selective Element in the Communications 137-42
Telepathy from the Dead, Indications of 126-8, 137, 280-2
,, from the Living, Terms Suggested to Express 125
" Tom, the Horse " Incident. (Sec Incidents.)
Index to Volume XVI. vii
Trance Phenomena, Certain. A Further Record of Observations of, by
Professor J. H. Hyslop 1
Conditions of 10, 13, 303, 304, 311-2, 322-3, 368, 375,
382, 390, 396, 407, 418, 426, 436-7, 446-7, 456-7, 466-7,
475-7, 486-7, 496-7
Personalities, The, Chief References to—
"Doctor" ... 201, 267,376
" Imperator" and " Sector " 15, 48-9, 51-2, 67, 73,
74, 113-5, 145, 155, 177-85, 194, 196-9, 201, 207,
209-13, 231, 234, 235, 240, 241, 255, 262-7, 272,
273, 299, 304, 311-3, 321, 324, 334, 335, 367-70,
375-7, 379, 381, 384, 391, 393, 395, 396, 417, 418,
426, 437, 447, 457, 458,465-7, 475-7, 485-9, 496,
497, 499, 644-7
" Phinwt " ... 10, 16, 127, 138, 180-2, 228, 251, 254,
255, 262, 263, 266, 272-5, 297
"Piiulens" 49, 267, 381
,, Mental and Moral Characteristics of ... 180
[See aUo Communicators, " G. P.")
Consistency of 48,49, 51, 52,67, 73, 74,113,144, 145,
155, 177-84, 262-7, 447-8
,, Contrasted with Normal Secondary Personality 152-6,
263, 268-85
Van Hikvenbf.rg, H., Evidence in Experiments with R. E. Lum ... 645
W., Mrs., References to 369, 370
Wireless Telegraphy not analogous to Trance Communications ... 139, 140
■\Voodworth, Mr., Experiments in Identification 590
X., Miss—(See Goodrich-Freer. )
