{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1randall_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Randall C NDE 4788","mylang":"de"}
          	        Randall C NDE 4788  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Randall C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2426 Randall C NDE 4788  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had arrived at the heart clinic for my appointment to have my implanted CRT-D device evaluated. The electrocardiogram leads were attached and the wand was placed over my CRT-D device for the test. The nurse practitioner was new and during the evaluation, she apparently did not realize that since my most recent A-V ablation surgery that my heart is a hundred percent dependent upon my device to keep beating. I guess a common test for patients that are not totally dependent upon the device is to turn off the pacing to monitor how the heart functions without assistance. Well at the instant she turned off my device my heart stopped beating. 

At that same instant I went into a dark place, I had a feeling of complete peace and contentment and a kind of mild euphoria. Just as I began to feel that, something else was beginning to occur. I was brought back, as the nurse had realized her mistake and turned my pacing device back on. When I first came back, the first thing I saw was my regular nurse standing there asking me repeatedly, 'Are you okay?'

The nurse was obviously very scared and was shaking because of what she had done. My regular nurse was there with her and then the representative from the company came running in as well. They were all very concerned that I was okay.

Looking back, I almost feel cheated that I wasn't able to go further into cardiac arrest to experience my own near death experience more completely before being brought back!

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'May 28, 2010'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    During ICD test my pacemaker was mistakenly turned off and my heart stopped beating  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I wasn't dead long enough to answer this question.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I wasn't dead long enough to answer this question.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I ran out of time to accurately say.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I ran out of time to accurately say.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I ran out of time to accurately say.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I experienced instant complete darkness. I felt contentment, peace, a kind of mild euphoria, I seemed to feel that something else was changing but I was brought back to the present too soon to really know.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of complete peace and contentment was fantastic and wonderful while it lasted.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I can't get through a day without wishing that I could have had more time in cardiac arrest to go further into my NDE!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was definitely real and I want to go back and be able to go much further into my own NDE!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I want to go back to experience more!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Your questionnaire is very well thought out and asks all the right questions.  Thank You.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1randall_c_nde.html