{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1raina_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Raina J NDE 4092","mylang":"de"}
          	        Raina J NDE 4092  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Raina J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1967 Raina J NDE 4092  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Much of the auto accident is blurry. I remember flashes of white surrounding me as paramedics try to get me out of the vehicle, and voices. I am in pain, then out of pain in darkness. There is a time when I am in darkness, floating in something like fluid with red curves around it. I am content and relaxed just floating. There are other people around me, just floating, just as content. Then I hear voices again of people asking me questions, probably in the emergency room.

I am unconscious again in darkness, and then I awaken in a large 'void' gray area. Muted light seems to be coming from above me, but there is no source. I am floating above other people, in an upright position. There are people above me and below me, vertically, and as I look directionally right down the row of people, there seem to be thousands upon thousands in the same formation. We are all silent. At the moment of awakening, there seems to be a feeling of something being pulled back or 'peeled' from my eyes and face. I reach down to touch the person below me and to my left. She has red hair. I want to ask her where I am. As I reach down, I am called.

At first, the man in front of me is approximately thirty feet away from me. He appears to be flooded with white light in a white suit, bald, with extremely white teeth. He floats me out of formation, then in front of him. He is not in a white suit, but he is 'glowing'. Inner light is flowing out all round him. He has extremely blue eyes. I am so happy to see him! I know him and he knows me. I cannot recollect who he is now. I hug him and tell him I miss him. He tells me it is not my time. I disagree! I see a line of people going through a dark tear in the fabric of the void and a man stares at me. In fact, there are other people milling about on the 'floor' who have very puzzled looks on their faces, which are slightly blurred to me. I am puzzled too. I want to go where the other people are going, but again, I am told it is not my time. I point again, to where the people are going. The man points to the upper right corner of the void and I am suddenly back in my body. 

I know I am there because there is someone telling me, 'You scared me to death! Don't you ever do that to me again'. I awoke to find myself in a scanning machine. I don't know for sure, but it must have been the x-ray tech and my brain scan must have flat-lined! After that, I was back - in pain, but back. What does it all mean? Why didn't I see the light?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November 5, 1984'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury  Concussion  Other Auto accident where I was in a coma, but in and out of the other side.  Auto accident.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was reaching down for the lady with red hair. When I was talking to the man.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt as if I had been there for a very long time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Blurriness and brightness. Tunnel-vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no sound. When the man spoke, it was inside my mind.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The man and other people who were just as puzzled as I was. I believe we were all communicating telepathically.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The man. I'm not sure who he was. Although I am a Christian, I don't believe it was Jesus. I think it may have been an ancestor.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Puzzlement, contentment, and I really, really wanted to stay. Love. I forgot about my family totally.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Baptist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     GOD IS SO MUCH MORE - WE ARE SO MUCH MORE.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     GOD IS SO MUCH MORE - WE ARE SO MUCH MORE.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just that it wasn't my time. It was irritating!

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Some people think I have flipped my lid. I don't talk about it much.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think the first time I went back, I was back in the womb, or a womb-like place. I know the man was significant to me, but I have no idea who he was.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A long time. People who are spiritual believe me. People who are not, do not and think I'm nuts, or that I had a bad head injury. No one is influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I heard it was possible.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I realized that there was life after death, although I didn't know how to tell anyone. I realized that there must be a God, and that there is definitely more beyond this life. I was inspired, but so puzzled about what we hear about Heaven. This wasn't Heaven. I'm sure if it. But, I'm still not sure what it is - I think about it every day.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remember as though it happened yesterday. I remember everything so vividly. If you are in a coma, isn't it just supposed to be dark? If you're dreaming, aren't you supposed to feel as though you are dreaming? It was not always dark, and there was no dreaming.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       After the experience, I have endured horrible depression and anger. I don't understand how someone twenty-three could have wished to stay there, but I sure did.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1raina_j_nde.html