{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rajnish_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Rajnish K NDE 4312","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rajnish K NDE 4312  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rajnish K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2135 Rajnish K NDE 4312  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was a time of a festival, people from outside of Bihar (a state in north India) coming to home to enjoy the festival widely know as 'Dala Chhath'. When the festival ended, I was planning to return New Delhi where I was working at the time. We had a family discussion over my marriage. I felt stressed. The day before I was to go to Delhi, my mom asked me to repair an electric wire that had been chewed through by a rat. Since I know this electrical work since childhood, it was not difficult for me. I started this activity. I took the proper precaution by switching off the electrical current from the main switch and brought in a wooden table. I was standing on the table and started my work. I cut the wire from one side and to rejoin it with the other side I came down from table but I forgot to put my feet in my sandals/shoes. As I started rejoining both ends of the electric wire, I got an electric shock (I did not wear any gloves). It was like a knife-like particle inserted into my finger and it speedily entered my body towards my leg. I cried as loud as I could. My mom listened to me and started crying. I became unconscious laid down on the floor. Fortunately, the bare wire fell from my hand and I was saved.

Between these almost ten to twenty seconds, I felt I was out of body, I felt that my body was lying down; if my mom removed the wire from my hand she could save my body. I really did not want to lose my body. I felt that I was telling to my mom to stop crying and remove the wire from my body's hand because I was unable to do so. I also felt that my mom was not listening to me but I did not know why.

There was a less than a single minute of unconscious but I have a great experience. I am a bioscience student; apart from my story, my family does not keep any faith in such things. Since then, I can have faith in this line. (If someone experiences such incident, they realize that there is life after death. But it is hard to make other's believe that life is after death.)

Thanks for providing such a platform to share such experiences.

Regards,

Rajnish.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  20-11-2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   After out of body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After out of body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Just I wanted my mom should save my body by removing the wire instead of crying, but I did not know why she was not listening to me. I felt that I was shouting on her to remove the wire but she was not listening even not looking at me. She was just looking at my body and crying. I felt I was in zero gravity.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     After this incident, I became aware of few future events. It may be a chance but a few major events happened in my life that I told to my wife/family member before the event occurred. For example, I will work out side Delhi. My salary will be around... I will be without our family for a year. I will not be present at my first childbirth, etc. I did not believe that anything related to it. You may know better.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Almost six months after this event, I saw the face of Goddess in a basement parking area. I was in Jaipur (India). I was with my friend. It was 9:00 am in the morning. I entered in the building ground floor (also as parking) to catch the lift. I felt that I might have a collision with a lady who was approaching me with a very high speed. It seemed that she would have knocked down me if I was in her way. I gave her way, I became aside, I stopped for a while, and I saw a glittering cloth and ornament she was wearing. I saw her face. That was bright and beautiful. She was running at such high speed that I was not able to see her full body or even the full face bit I saw her half face and a part of her silky white cloth.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I can say my all experience was meaningful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Within minutes I shared it with my mom. She told me that she have faith in God.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I saw my body lying helpless. I was shouting on my mom to stop crying and help my body but she was not listening my voice and I was not able to save my body.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That was a horrible but great experience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rajnish_k_nde.html