{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1raina_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Raina R NDE 8207","mylang":"de"}
          	        Raina R NDE 8207  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Raina R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4291 Raina R NDE 8207  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had an emergency surgery for endometriosis with infection and hemorrhage. I got a hysterectomy. Following the operation, I was in a coma and placed in the recovery room under the supervision of two nurses. I had moments of consciousness, but I couldn't talk nor communicate. I heard some noises in the nurses room. Then I smelled  a strong smell of fresh paint.
  				    
  I was sleeping. Then I heard the nurses enter my room and they opened the window. I felt much cold and a was in a great void.
  
  Suddenly, I found myself above my body. I was floating in the air. The sensation  was so pleasant. I felt good and had no pain. I could see a group of people from my height. There were two  women and one or two  men, who were desperately doing massage on me.  I saw the device connected to my heart with the flat red line and the ringing of the alarm.
  
  I lost the notion of time, and woke up while painfully reintegrating my physical body and it's pain. 

  I returned to life.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related.       Other: In recovery room after surgery.  Cardiac arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   A higher consciousness. I remember every detail of the colors.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the moment of leaving the body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I had no notion of time at all anymore.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     An intense sight of the colors only  more radiating.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Sharper hearing and amplified sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain.   It was daylight and the sun was intense.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Absolute calm.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     I felt good and wanted to reassure the nurses reanimating me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life.   I thought that my two daughters still needed me.  
  
God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     What comforted me is the calm and serenity, the absence of pain and struggle.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I moved out. I'm communicating with the English friends of my deceased daughter. I'm  opening up my heart and my mind.  I'm praying constantly.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Having experienced the crossing over towards death, and not being scared of death anymore.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are probably meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Everything is love; such as life that the nurses gave back to me and the love of my children that gave me the strength to come back.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     Two years after this experience, I could endure the brutal death of my daughter at the age of 29; I was able to accompany girlfriends, my partner towards the doors of death. I find the words, tenderness to tell love.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Life after death exists really, I have no doubt whatsoever.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A girlfriend was receptive and believed me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Through a book published in the USA with testimonies. No influence at all.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I never could get a proof of this episode in my documents of hospitalization.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     The medical profession refuses to consider these experiences, and is putting them upon the effects of anesthesia.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes.   Very precise premonitory dreams about the accidental death of my daughter.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       In my thoughts, I'm often in paradise with my beloved ones and I'm smiling at life.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1raina_r_nde.html