{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rafeal_eh_nde.html","mytitle":"Rafeal EH NDE 2961","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rafeal EH NDE 2961  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rafeal EH NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1093  Rafeal EH NDE  2961  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was playing during recess at school, with my friends, and a friend told me that he knew a game that was really fun - I didn't know that squeezing the arteries in your neck would make you pass out. I agreed to play in order to appear tough and he told me to take a breath and hold it. I did while he supported me against the wall and put his two hands around my neck and squeezed the arteries against the wall. Around eight seconds later, I felt dizzy and lost consciousness.

Suddenly I saw myself floating about two meters from my body. As I said, I was twelve years old and felt that floating out of my body was the most normal thing in the world. I looked at the scene with my friends laughing and hitting me to get me up. I don't know how to explain it, but I was only consciousness. I didn't move from the site while I saw myself on the ground. Suddenly I raised my eyes up towards heaven and felt an inexplicable force that pulled me at full speed. Stopping all at once, I looked down and could see the entrance to the school. It's about eight hundred or nine hundred meters from the porch where I lost consciousness to the door into the school where I could clearly see a group of women waiting in the doorway. I couldn't think. I was only conscious of everything around me.

Once again, that force returned in a second to pull me away and I found myself back in my body. I came to and realized what had happened. My friends went away laughing but I didn't care. In that moment, I realized what we are and what awaits everybody. Friends, earth life is not the only thing we experience.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1995  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         jugando  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When the force pulled me the first time and I saw the door of the school and a group of women waiting.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the force pulled me the first time and I saw the door of the school and a group of women waiting.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I didn't feel either hot or cold; I only felt I was part of the surroundings. I saw everything as normal with a clarity the same as usual. I saw the sky and the earth, the color of the trees. Everything around me seemed normal.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Only for an instant. That force that pulled me felt like a light that enveloped me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     It's incredible that you should ask me this. I have never told anyone. A few years after my experience I was in a plaza of my neighborhood playing soccer with my colleagues and I had a kind of vision that happened in a second. It was of my brother and his girlfriend making love. I thought about it a minute and although surprised by this strange vision, I just started playing with my friends once again.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     Not that I know of.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Being only a kid, these topics never caught my attention.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rafeal_eh_nde.html