{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rafa_sr_nde.html","mytitle":"Rafa SR NDE 8129","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rafa SR NDE 8129  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rafa SR NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4236 Rafa SR NDE 8129  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  										  					  					

I was skiing and racing downhill. I was not wearing a helmet because I was sizing the course up and not doing serious downhill racing.  The course went into a forest and out onto a jump. When I took the jump, I ran into someone standing in the middle of the gate. We collided head to head and both lost consciousness. This is many years ago and is first time I write about it. I broke my teeth and lost consciousness for 20 minutes. 
 
 I left my physical body and saw myself lying down in the white snow, surrounded by the contrasting red color of the blood. I went into a tunnel and had a 'once in a lifetime' feeling of peace with the world.  I felt no pain.  I saw the brightest light and then had a big choice, 'Should I let go?' I was fully aware of what was going on around me. My reaction was to return to my body. 
 
 I felt a lot of pain from the broken teeth and headache. I woke up in a helicopter going to the hospital. 
 
 My life went on to build a wonderful family with a loving wife, four magnificent children, and a grandson.  The experience clearly changed my life with full certainty of having gone through the afterlife passage and returning. I have never felt a similar peacefulness since that time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident.     Direct head injury.    Life threatening event, but not clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Full level of lucidity and awareness but yet in a coma

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All during the 20 minutes I was out

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     Faster

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Brightness

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Big crash

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace until resurrected

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No     I saw history from my lifetime history

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     God definitely exists

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     A feeling of peace integration, with a different perspective. Definitely a feeling of continuity.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I slightly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Uncertain

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Unlimited sense of love

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     I've become more spiritual.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    Very lucid memory of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Need to share

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Maybe emphasize a little more in the time it took to share the experience, for me it took 33 years to tell my story after reading Anita Moorjani. I am afraid to lose lucidity in what really happened.  That is why we need to write and tell it now.  </h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rafa_sr_nde.html