{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1raina_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Raina K NDE 5401","mylang":"de"}
          	        Raina K NDE 5401  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Raina K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2975 Raina K NDE 5401  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I felt more tired than usual as I had worked a lot for a few years, and had worked on the house we were building during my vacation. I was supposed to start work again the day after this happened. I was putting on a new sweater and while I did this, I just fell on the floor. I saw my life as a movie and then I woke up and said goodbye because I believed I was dying, but I was not afraid at all, as it seemed a natural feeling inside to just let go of life. After that, everything became black; I did not hear, see, feel or remember anything. When I woke up, I could not move anything except my head, and was paralyzed. The ambulance came and looked over me but could not find anything wrong. The diagnosis was exhaustion. I fell three more times after that as I was completely exhausted. 

The life review was mostly of my childhood. I saw myself as the girl and the teenager and a little bit of myself as an adult.  I saw pictures during different periods of my life and I learned that life is a movie where we are on stage, and that it's me who decides how my movie is going to go and who gets to play a part of it. Today I understand myself a lot better, and I understand that I am the one that chooses what the movie is about every day. It is not a long movie; it is day-by-day, situation by situation. I choose all the time how I am going to react towards what is happening now. Either I can allow other people to make the movie for me or I can choose to do it myself. Second by second, all the choices are mine, and I am the one that has to be responsible for those choices. Even if I think it is someone else’s fault, I have still allowed it to happen. Life is to react to what happens. Life is to feel what is happening and to choose from your heart or your gut, if what is happening is right for you or not. I have all the right in the world to find my own happiness and freedom, and to protect myself and love myself. If I do not love myself, the movie will be very bad and no one wants to be a part of it or in my life, and I will only hurt others and myself.  

I see it as a gift that I came to understand my life as a movie and that I am the one that decides how the movie is supposed to be. I divorced in 2007 and took a step in to my life, my movie.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  2003-08-06
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No      'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?   Uncertain

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the movie and when I had the feeling that I could let go.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I did not experience time at all.  Nothing. I know that it took 20-30 minutes for the ambulance to come, but I did not experience that time at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw the movie in color.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear the people around me. No sound at all.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peaceful feelings, and that is was safe to let go.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     'see narrative above'

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I think I described it in the narrative above

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have eliminated some people from my movie because they are not good for me. I have forgiven many that have hurt me badly.  I feel more love than before, but that does not mean that I allow people to walk all over me, but I love everybody anyway.     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Stronger intuition to take in other people's intentions and to understand what they are thinking. Sometimes I say what others are thinking and it can be confusing to them because it is not me talking to them, but they think it is me. I can accept messages from the other side and feel if anybody wants to say anything. These are not gifts I am working on to improve as I have learned to keep quiet when I hear what the other person is thinking.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was scary to discover that I started to live again. I had been so tired, but I was grateful to get my life back even though it was tough to come back to. I felt a big sorrow and could not get up for 2 months. I had to get help with everything.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Stronger than before, it has taught me so much.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1raina_k_nde.html