{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rachel_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Rachel Probable NDE 41","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rachel Probable NDE 41  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Rachel Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						101  Rachel Probable NDE  41  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  				  I was working the (3-11) shift at the hospital passing Prescription to the patients on the ward, my usual duties as a Charge Nurse.  I was in excruciating pain abdominally.  I knew something dreadful was wrong with my body for the pain had come and gone over a period of 6 months off and on.  This evening it was almost unbearable.  Nurses they say r the worst patients and I like everyone else had obligations to fulfill in my life and kept putting things off.  In addition, I was self-doctoring myself off and on with over the counter drugs.  (I had been diagnosed a few years back with colitis.)  This I could sense was different.


I had scheduled a doctor’s appointment for that week, which I could not keep, since I ended up in the ER room of the hospital the next morning, bent over in pain.  I could not go any further.  They attempted tests at first that did not revealed what they hoped for; henceforth, exploratory emergency surgery was required stat.


Upon my prep and arrival to the operating room, it flashed to me before I went under “Oh, my God I am going to die.”  (I am a Nurse, I have worked in the operating room) The thought was alien to my training.  Well, I never went out!  I mean my body succumbed to the anesthetic, but I was quite aware still, very disinterested in what they were doing down there on me (my body) and started ascending.  It seemed to be the most natural thing to ascend.  I was in a tunnel and it seemed things were soaring by me.


Through telepathy or somehow (I don't really know how) I knew there were 2 male entities along side of me as I sped in this tunnel.  They were Angelic Beings. I knew that and they were like escorting me up.  (At least it seemed up.)  I don't know.  Then all of a sudden, I saw my paternal Grandmother (Just radiant and glowing with light coming to me with elation on her face and her hand outstretched toward me.  She was smiling.  She was like in a mist or cloud??? Her hand was trying to reach mine for an embrace.  I could somehow sense there were other people with her like a welcome wagon party or something and I had extended my hand to grab hers.  I somehow was so surprised and said Grandma what are you doing here? (She’d been dead many years.)


Someone, one of the angel beings said “NO, Rachel!”  I knew telepathically somehow if I touched her hand, I could not go back.  It’s like I was stopped suddenly like an invisible wall was put up.  I said “why not???” They stated “NO,” emphatically and very sternly, but with love.  “No, you must go back.”  I again asked, “Why???” I wanted to go to that beautiful place, but I was suspended.


Then I heard my little 3 year old granddaughter’s voice saying "Don't go by by Memo, Memo don't go".  She was alive here in my daughter’s house which was confirmed to me later by my daughter, without mention by me that Sammy was very psychic and had been playing in her little bedroom with her toys at the time I was leaving and was talking out loud to herself what I just described, when my daughter heard her.  I swooshed back into my body and woke up in the ICU unit with tubes in every orifice.


It was related to me later that the surgeons came out and told my siblings all they could do was pray.  #1 it was graver than they thought and I was very weakened.  The outlook was not good.  They had removed a tumor the size of a grapefruit, it was cancerous and they had removed a lot of my intestines, etc. and given me a colostomy. They gave me 3 months to live, I was told later by my family.


Well, I am tired of writing now, but I also left my body 3 to for times after that and was met by angelic beings who informed me I did not have cancer and allowed me to peer inside my own body at my cells, and there is more.  I came home, obviously and still was not totally grounded or totally in my body.  It seemed I was very loose from the physical shell.  I learned a lot and can still ascend in meditation.  I love it.


In 1992 my youngest son was killed in a car accident on his way home from college, I have seen him also in these latter years.  If I can assist you, I am willing.  I know the empirical sciences attempt to attribute these accounts to neurotransmitters of the organic brain, etc., I've often wondered about that being a science student, but I know they are wrong (For there is certainly a different dimension we here call heaven,  I've been there)

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    August, 1991

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death Emergency surgery without hopeful diagnosis

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I looked sort of like me, but light

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very aware

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    A humming or buzzing like???in my head

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     There seemed to be some kind of walls or??? I dont know how to describe it a funnel like sense, but made of?????like the universe stuff???like a portal or wormhole.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Yes, I told you.  Somehow I also seemed to know these 2 angelic beings too, not just my relative.  (See above)

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I was ascending with 2 angels and as we neared my dead Grandmother the light was glowing more and more

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt like it was normal I had nowhere else to go but where I was going, yet it was very different.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Catholic

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Catholic & Kabbalah student

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     There is definitely a LIVING GOD no matter what anyone calls God

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE: 

  					 Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain   Alot of info pouring into the senses at once.
  					 
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Saw my son and Jesus clear as a bell on the other plane

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Coming and going between realms.  I also felt an abundance of love and compassion for my fellowman that was accented.  I also feel at times very melancholy about being here in this heavy machine called a body.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Only a few very close to me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Meditation sessions and prayer (I have had OBE often)

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I had other encounters with spiritual beings before I got well.  I was told by the oncologists that I needed chemo and what they were going to do, and told by the being of light what was going to happen for my own life pattern.

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rachel_probable_nde.html