{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rachel_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Rachel B NDE 2451","mylang":"de"}
          	        Rachel B NDE 2451  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Rachel B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						747  Rachel B NDE  2451  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

After suffering a gunshot wound to the chest I was unconscious when I arrived at the emergency room. Within minutes, I was in shock and dying. Suddenly I was looking down on my body and the crowd of doctors and nurses working to revive me. I looked around and found that I was up above the room and in the very left hand corner of the 'picture'. Looking to my right, I could see a brilliant light as if it were coming from behind a door an indefinite distance away. I wanted to go through the door but could not because of what the doctors were doing. Now they were putting tubes into my chest and I yelled at them to 'Leave her alone, let her go, stop hurting her!' repeatedly. I no longer saw that person, that body as being me, but as a separate entity. Yet, unless they let that entity die, I could not live to go through the door to the light. I felt no pain, no fear and my emotions were calm but I felt an urgency to get to the light because the door was slowing closing.

Suddenly a shock opened my eyes and I was back inside that wounded body again in the intensive care unit. I felt a terrible loss inside. The next day when the surgeon came in, I greeted him by name and told him he should have let me die. He was amazed I knew his name and more amazed when I described and named the other doctors and technicians that had worked on me. He said I was already comatose when he got there. I even described the layout of the instruments he had used and the layout of the emergency rooms. He said there was no way I could have known these things.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1973  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Criminal attack     GSW to chest  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Multiple bullet fragments throughout chest, collapsed lung, excessive blood loss.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There was no question of what I needed to do, no decision for me to make of whether to stay or go. I did not think about past, present or future, just that at that moment it was my chance to go to the next stage of life.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After going into shock.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I felt an urgency for the humans to leave my body to die so I could reach the light before the door closed completely.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     While I considered myself looking into the room, I was also looking across a universe of space to the light behind the open door I needed to reach before it closed. I was seeing the people from above and at eye level at the same time; I could read their name tags, even smell their breath. I moved among them and through them without touching them. It was like watching the same show from ten different camera angles.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was hearing, but not in the sense of sound coming into my ears, it just 'was'.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was also looking across a universe of space to the light behind the open door.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Really felt calm. I knew what the doctors were doing must be hurting the body and I wanted them to leave it alone, it had already suffered enough pain. Emotionally, I was at peace.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know now the church of God is in our soul and not in a creed or building,  

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know now the church of God is in our soul and not in a creed or building,  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I felt God had let me know that he is there and is waiting for me when this body does die.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I became a kinder, gentler person.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The feeling of total peace and the sense that life would go on forever in a form different than the bodies we now inhabit.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared my experience only with some relatives and close friends. At that time, one hardly ever heard of people having NDE's and I did not feel many would believe me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was crystal clear in my mind then of having actually occurred and now, thirty years later, it's still just as clear as the day it happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was crystal clear in my mind then of having actually occurred and now, thirty years later, it's still just as clear as the day it happened.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have been in several traumatic accidents that probably should have killed me, yet at the moment when I should feel the most terror that same peace and calm wash over me and I have just thought maybe He is ready for me now. So far though, he must have more work for me to do here.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rachel_b_nde.html