{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1rl_s_nde.html","mytitle":"R.L. S NDE 3221","mylang":"de"}
          	        R.L. S NDE 3221  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					R.L. S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1194  R.L. S NDE  3221  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I fell, suffering a spinal injury which was reactionary. After five minutes from the time of the fall my motor functions ceased, my heart stopped and I stopped breathing. I was in the Mexican jungle at a festival called Cumbre Tajin in which many schools of healing medicine are practiced both ancient and modern. 

My uncle, who is a doctor in the US, was beside me at the time of the fall, witnessed, and documented the event along with several other doctors and non-traditional healers. CPR was maintained for approximately twenty minutes, during which periodic in-field coma and nerve tests were performed. I was pronounced dead by those there and by a Mexican paramedic. But an argument ensued between those working on me and the governmental personnel who were trying to remove me by helicopter. 

During this time I saw mental images of landscapes and things I had recently observed in my travels there, I then only perceived what you have referred here to as 'void', this felt to me about two minutes but was around twenty-five minutes of total unconsciousness as I was told. I began to come to as the people performed several procedures on me; they were using many techniques unfamiliar to Western medicine. 

The first thing I remember as I came to was liquor being spewed into my face repeatedly. That seemed to be the reviving impetus. I regained my hearing first but could not speak; I remember hearing arguing over me being flown out of the jungle. I then recall hearing that I had a heartbeat and then I was asked my name for several moments until I could speak. My motor functions did not come back completely for almost an hour. I suffered residual after effects from this event for approx. two months.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    'March 20, 2001'

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  Fall  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) .  Your question here is vague. It is a near death experience for a reason. I suffered a spinal injury from a fall. All nervous functions ceased.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  
I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      From my perspective, I remained at a fairly high level of awareness throughout, more so than a dreaming state. Though, as I was told later, I obviously was not aware of time. My initial mental images, my thoughts and sense of peace where very clear throughout the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I can say that time did not have the same effect as it does in this reality.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    I had no physical vision during this time for the majority of the event.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I had no hearing until the end of the event.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     I experienced a closing down or a minor tunneling effect of my vision but there was no 'tunnel' or enclosure.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Uncertain     I saw images of entities. Did I see beings? No, I saw images. Were they physical like you and I? Not in the least. Were they 'real', yes and no. The concept of that is not definable.

The experience included:      Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Your use of the term 'a' light is a leading question. I saw multiple lights in the first few moments but not 'a light'.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     There is really no distinction between these things except in this physical reality. The mind has free reign to go these 'places' at will without an NDE. Did I experience this yes, we all do, the NDE allowed it to be more clear and focused for the moment.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt peaceful - that is the only descriptor I have ever been able to use for some sort of emotion associated with this event.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     You always learn something from an experience, if you do not then you aren't paying attention. Did I encounter something or someone 'mystical'? Again, mystical is a vague human-based conception like 'good' or 'evil'. Yes, I had an experience that lead me to understand many things and taught me now to continue to learn on another level of experience.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     My awareness of myself seems to be the same. My awareness of things outside of that seems clearer.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Multi-faceted religious exposure

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      No     I do not have belief in or condone religion. Religion is a manmade costume for what is a spiritual experience.

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Philosophy is more important that religion in my current view.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     I do not have belief in or condone religion. Religion is a manmade costume for what is a spiritual experience.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Simply knowing the source without the ego. I can't say that it felt 'special'. It just is. It always just is. For someone to have a sudden revelation to that even in just daily life would seem that they really weren't paying attention to begin with. The NDE just helped with confirming that. Like taking a test, you may know that you know something but you have to take a test to confirm it with yourself.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No  I feel that my relationships have changed but not as a 'direct' but more indirect result of this experience. Over time, people have less in common with my view of things. It is as if I have one foot there and one foot here, when really there is no difference. But most others don't seem to see it that way.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     I do not think anything really qualifies as 'paranormal'. This is like asking a dog if he believes in geometry. He can't grasp even the word geometry but that doesn't mean it doesn't make up the basic structure of all things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I cannot say that any one part of the experience had any special meaning to me. It was an experience that you move through and you take from and apply to life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I had several thousand people witness my experience. I came to and there was a huge circle of Mayan people chanting, there were Native Americans and Westerners from many countries there with me when it occurred, it made an immediate impact on several people. As well as people who I have spoken about it with but people still go in there daily lives. Death is really a part of life in all forms.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    Yes   I was aware of people having NDE's. Anyone who has watched television has seen something regarding this issue.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I had a real NDE experience. That is how I have always viewed it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I had the good fortune of confirming something in a way that not everyone is able to do. We live separately in our minds from this other reality not really understanding that it is actually what supports what we view 'here' as reality. One is not separate from the other. This reality is merely a veil or decoration that clouds our view of what really is natural to all things.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I have been able to recreate the nature of the experience by study and particular events. Not by use of substances or medications. The mind can be made to go to these places if properly trained, without the event of an NDE. I was and have been able to create a similar state of awareness with the same interaction. It does take time and effort but the body can assist the mind to do this. Initially it is somewhat painful to the body to 'raise yourself' to that level but with repetition it does become easier. The main difficulty is coming back. I find it harder to focus on daily life after recreating the experience so I do not attempt this very often. Or at least that has been my experience of it.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It would be interesting to attempt to have people explore that realm without the near death factor. I believe this can be done and has been by some. I feel that nothing is mystical or mysterious, we just haven't figured it out yet.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Check your questions for objectivity.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1rl_s_nde.html