{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1priscilla_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Priscilla C NDE 4589","mylang":"de"}
          	        Priscilla C NDE 4589  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Priscilla C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2315 Priscilla C NDE 4589  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was sitting in church when my pastor had stood up to teach us. I felt like I was fading away, so I said to myself I will get up once the pastor gets up to teach and I will go home. I grabbed my purse to move and I just sit there and didn't move. As I went into this coma/or whatever you may want to call it I was not in the physical body but in a spiritual body. I saw these unearthly beings that were trying to pull me to their side. They were pulling at me from both sides and I was in a struggle with them not to go over to their side. I struggled very hard to get away from them. I cannot describe them at all. As soon as I got away from them, I saw a very bright, bright light and I began to move at the speed of light. Then I came back out of my coma, not realizing that I was still in church. At this time, church was over with. The paramedics were around me as well as the people in the church and I begin to hear people talk and call my name. I had no idea what had happen or that I was still at the church. I was very wet as though someone had poured water on me. My feet were swelling and looked as though they were bear claws. From what they told me I was out for at least ten to fifteen minutes. I kept saying to everyone who was around me how embarrassed I was that this happened to me. Of course, I was hospitalized for three days.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 28, 2010'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  I have diabetic.  Other I was at church services  My sugar level dropped to 20.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I was consciousness around 1:00 pm.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was consciousness around 1:00 pm.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     As I said, I was fading away and this is why I wanted to leave the Service sooner.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I was not aware that I had passed out.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It seemed as though, once I saw the bright light, I was passing so fast, again I was moving at the speed of light through the tunnel. I remember the bright light was more on the side of me than in front of me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was struggling with the unearthly beings. They were in front of me, but on both sides. I have no idea what they looked like. All I know they were trying to pull me to their side.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light was very bright.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The light and me moving so fast.  I cannot describe those unearthy beings.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Embarrassment and why did this happen to me?

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Yes, I have learned not to care for material things. Relationships with people (family and friends) are more important. I am very humble and will treat people with respect. Trust God and treat people with respect to.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I did have a question to God of what this means and why this happen to me.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I did have a question to God of what this means and why this happen to me.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I am still trying to figure out what all this means.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I just want to live longer.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I cannot recall the unearthly beings that I was struggling with to keep from going over on the other side.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     When reading the Bible, I always wondered why no one talked about death in the Bible.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The unearthly beings that I cannot describe. The light and the struggling I was doing.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Maybe two hours. They were somewhat aware of life after death. They perhaps thought that a death angel had came to get me. But Jesus was the light who saved me. I don't think they were influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It happened, no reason to make up this. I have never experienced anything like this in my life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I don't just make up anything like this. There is no reason to do so.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It was an experience that I will never forget.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1priscilla_c_nde.html