{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1quinn_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Quinn A NDE 793","mylang":"de"}
          	        Quinn A NDE 793  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Quinn A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						302  Quinn A NDE  793  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I have only had one OBE in my life, during a time of distress. Ever since then, I have attempted to recreate the experience, but to no avail. Here is my story.


I have spent eight years serving this country in the military; Special Operations, to be more exact. We went in, completed our assigned tasks, and on our way out, things turned from bad to worse real quick like. Obviously, a firefight ensued as we were retreating. Our GOD (sniper) could not keep up with the sheer amount of bad guys we could not see/hit. Anyway, I ended up taking four rounds that evening. One in the chest (Kevlar kept that out), one in the stomach area, and two in the legs. I fell to the ground, and felt myself fading away. But I was not scared or worried.


All of the sudden I 'opened' my eyes, and saw the battle scene from approximately four meters above. I saw my teammates firing their weapons, and saw our medic dragging me away. I turned around, and looked at the bad guys. To this day, I will remember their exact position and location (even the ones we could not see). I remember thinking to myself, 'Oh, that's where the shit-heads are hiding.'


I turned back around towards my teammates and saw the medic working on me. I remember that he did not have his 'brain bucket' - Kevlar helmet - on his head. That's something I could not foresee if I would have just been dreaming, and not have been out of my body. I looked at myself and my wounds and thought, 'Ain't that a bitch! Some jerk got off a lucky shot'. I was not 'scared' or 'afraid' of dying. But due to my mentality, I said to myself, 'I refuse to die on this forsaken and foreign land!' At the same exact time, I remember a feeling of being snapped back into my body.


I didn't give the experience much thought until we returned to our Carrier Group. There, lying in one of the medical unit beds, it hit me. HARD! I have had a lot of time to ponder on the experience, and after telling my teammates about it, I have become even more certain that I actually had an out of body experience. They confirmed things that I could not have seen from my lying down position.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Undisclosed

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes       Life threatening event, but not clinical death See above.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Physically unconscious.  Mentally - extremely alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   See above.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I lived through it...?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My teammates were supportive, and believed my experience, simply because there were things I could not have physically seen from my position.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1quinn_a_nde.html