{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1quint_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Quint B NDE 976","mylang":"de"}
          	        Quint B NDE 976  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Quint B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						431  Quint B NDE  976  					  				  			      			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in London, one night friends brought me to a young woman that was in delirium. (drugs or alcohol, I never found out)  They had met  her and didn't know what to do with her.  I made her lie down , she cried,  screamed, and I did what I could to calm her and talk softly and stroke her hair.  I was 19 years old and did not know what else to do.  After a long moment she calmed down and told me she was cold, so I connected an electric radiator.  As no heat was coming forth, I met my one hand on the radiator and the other one on the socket.  In that moment I was electrocuted.  This is what I went through: I moved very quickly as drawn into and to a very strong and at the same time very sweet light.  Then, in that light and sweetness, I was one with the other souls in total harmony.</p>
  Our collective consciousness told me that I couldn't stay because I had something else to do Being part of this consciousness, and a bit disappointed that I  had to leave I went back into my body. </p>
  The return in my body was violent: I heard someone screaming and I understood that this was I who had come back. I opened my eyes, a friend who was a fireman living in the same building had heard me and had hurried to rescue me.  A friend present told me that she saw me glued to the radiator and the socket and then jump backwards 2 or 3 meters and falling down on my bed. ( Where I regained the ground).</p>
  I did not go to hospital, to me this was but a small incident.  My whole body shook for several hours and the first night I found it difficult to get my feet back in this reality.  Sounds, colors and sensations where almost painfully strong experiences. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1976 and 1992

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death. I was being electrocuted.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Disturbing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was part of our collective consciousness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Conscious and extremely lucid.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I was drawn into a light then I was part of it.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     These were no beings with bodies but souls: a collective consciousness.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Very white, very pure, and very sweet.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Yes, I will tell later.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.   I left my body and became part of collective consciousness.   I understood that I had to   come back because I had to do something here. I was disappointed but accepted   and understood that I had taken part in the decision.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   aucun

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   aucun

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The colors, the sensations, views, the communications  (both in word and feeling) have no equivalent in our language to describe and explain these experiences.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain: Yes and No, I am born with psychic and paranormal gifts.

What emotions did you feel after the experience?   Fulfilled, total happiness   exists, no desires , no needs, of everything that makes us human.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best :the sensation of being fulfilled, the worst : the first hours of my return.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Total incomprehension,  thus I no longer talk about it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Not today.

   </p>

  </p>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1quint_b_nde.html