{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pul_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Pul J NDE 36","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pul J NDE 36  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Pul J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						78  Pul J NDE  36  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 At 10:00 Friday night I was combing my hair and I dropped the brush and when I bent over to pick it up I could not hang on to it. That was the beginning. I went through the panic that one experiences when faced with something terribly wrong. I also experienced the total peace that washes over you and you look at your wife and tell her you need to go to the hospital. The feeling of other presences in the room and being able to walk out to the car and feeling that you are being helped by some one on each side but somehow understanding it's alright. Then on the way to the hospital you know for certain at a specific place that you are dying and you only have a few minutes to say goodbye to your wife and son without them knowing that you know you're not coming home.


I could go on and on up to and including being in the presence of Jesus Christ and a look at what the near future holds, and of how I knew for these past few years that we were heading for exactly where we are right now......and how it will escalate unless one of the other five paths are not taken. So far we have chosen a path of great sorrow. So it was a wonderful experience and a sorrowful one to sit and see what I saw come about...


The existing situation! Milsovic will commit suicide and ground troops will start something that has such far reaching effects and on and on.... You must know that anyone who experiences a NDE always brings something back.....Unfortunately I was given an unforgettable look at these coming years..... I also saw what could be and that was beyond my comprehension.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    February 16 1996

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     Major Stroke  Clinical death Yes, I had a stroke and I was dying. I knew I was going to die but I was not alone, even just before the stroke..... the point is, you are not alone even in the moments before.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  You seem not to be particularly concerned of what you’re made of, only the energy. I really don't have an answer for this

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very focused and able to assimilate volumes of information and feel intense happiness and sorrow and love or our inability to know what that word involves.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Mostly the sounds of peace and love, not sounds like we think of sounds but nevertheless audible in some way.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Too difficult

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Like I said profound happiness while in the light and also profound sorrow when I felt or shared the sadness of Christ when we were together watching the joining of the times. Hard to explain, mostly.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   We don't know what we don't know. How do I explain experiencing the past, present and future all at the same time and many other things.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</strong>

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pul_j_nde.html