{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1priscilla_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Priscilla O NDE 790","mylang":"de"}
          	        Priscilla O NDE 790  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Priscilla O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						301  Priscilla O NDE  790  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in anaphylactic shock. I knew I was dying; I was in great pain, went blind and then deaf.  Then I died. I went out through my body, down through the emergency room bed, and then flew up into a corner of the room. I didn't look at myself on the bed; I knew right away that I had died. It was pitch black, like a total void, and I felt wonderful. I felt so good. I had no pain.  I felt light, and like I had no body. I knew God, or some higher power was there. I knew that He held the key to my going back to Earth. I didn't talk to God, and He didn't talk to me, it was all emotions. I insisted I return, demanded actually, because I am a single parent of four children, and they needed me.  This went on, with my demands, and also for my mother who is eighty and has already lost one child.  Then God laughed, not at me, but I believe because I was so mad, and so angry at him.  He 'told' me that I could go back because my requests were all for others.


Then I had an out of body experience, where I saw my boyfriend outside the building, he had broken up with me the day before, and 'someone' told me, 'Don't be upset, he's not the one.'  Then I was back in my body.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    9/8/01

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction    Clinical death I was in anaphylactic shock.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was just a soul, not a body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I don't know.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   During my OBE, the spatial relations of my being up high and yet my boyfriend being inches from me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I knew I was in the presence of a higher being.  I refer to him as 'God,' I couldn't see him, but I felt him.  He 'talked' to me, through feelings. I was mad at Him, for taking me, and I refused to go with Him.  He laughed at/with me, lovingly, for being so insistent that I return. He 'told' me, my requests were all for others, not myself, so I could return.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I have been consumed with blue.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     What we look like, have, do, and are irrelevant. Also, my love for my children changed greatly, I don't love them as much as I used to, and I love them for who they are, not who I want them to be. They aren't my children, they are the world's children.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I told God I had to return, and I was allowed. I was madder then heck that I had died, I knew I was dying previously, told the nurses that, and then I died, and I told God I had to return to raise my children, and because my mother didn't deserve to lose another child.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I love more people, am less anal about beliefs in God, but also, I feel very sad at the world.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I blow out light bulbs, if I try I can talk to dead people, and spirits just appear sometimes, and I know people's names before they tell me, and I just know things.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was how I feel about life, and the worst is that I spent two years almost wishing I could die  so I could go back. I wanted to die daily.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some understanding, some think I am crazy.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      It's been a blessing and a curse.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1priscilla_o_nde.html