{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1preston_p_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Preston P Probable NDE 22663","mylang":"de"}
          	        Preston P Probable NDE 22663  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Preston P Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2992 Preston P Probable NDE 22663  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					First doctors visit for upper respiratory infection I was given an injection of penicillin and told to come back in three days for booster of same. Second visit I had no visible signs of any reaction to the drug and the nurse injected me in the buttocks with a much larger dose than the first and I immediately turned to say, ‘I can taste that in my mouth.’ She knew me well and told me to quit fooling around and pull my pants up. About the time I got my pants up, I heard a noise, sounded as if coming from the hall a oscillating up and down and increasing in strength, I turned and asked if she could hear that?

Her reply was, ‘what are you talking about? Then a push to my chest, I felt like someone hit me and the nurse knew I was in trouble and helped me to the exam table and I laid on my back, feet were crossed and I remember asking her to uncross my feet. Quickly I imagined I had been given a shot of Polio by accident and I was paralyzed and so afraid. I couldn't grasp what was happening to me and she left to find the doctor. I felt a wave of numbness starting at my toes and finger tips and like neutrally warming water worked straight to my center and I became very accepting of it all and started thinking I no longer will have to eat, sleep, exercise, great peace of mind. Then I felt as if me (spirit me) was outside my body and feeling the walls of the room as skin, no more sensation of my body skin and form. I was very OK with where I was. Next the doctor and nurse return, they filled two separate syringes, pulled my pants down.  He injected first a load of adrenalin that instantly raised me off the table.  She immediately hit the other hip with an arresting agent and I was back. That's what happened and I look so forward to the day I have my next Birthday

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1969/1971

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness. Allergic reaction  see above explanation.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death Anaphylaxis, brought on by a second and larger dose of penicillin, injected, 2 days after preliminary smaller injection for upper respiratory infection.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The presence of feeling the walls of the room and my desire to continue beyond the walls, out of my skin, the walls became my skin.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I remember everything but I don't know if I lost consciousness and the doctor and I had future discussions because of the psychosomatic, involuntary numbness episodes for the year after. He and the nurse have long been gone so I can't discuss. I'm sixty-seven he and the nurse were probably seventy when the event took place.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Feeling the edges of the room while still on the table.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I have heard it referred to as tinnitus, a loud up and down volume like holding a long sheet of thin steel at each end and shaking it to make noise.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Super sensitive, all the congestion that had brought me to the doctor gone. My thought process was extremely fast and clear so I could process everything once the numbness took over and the calm set in.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Once the calm set in, I did not want to return to my body.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I think so, I remember knowing that I no longer would have eat, sleep work or exercise, and that I could travel by thought and that's what got me to the walls.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was very in touch with my being out of my body (skin) and free to go with my thoughts and the walls were the only obstacle and I was ready to go beyond and was aware of the feelings and thoughts and not at the table where my body was laying. Everything was present, I wasn't looking back or around I was seeing all at once.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     The walls.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I love every day but you don't grow old without pain.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   Very easy to communicate because it made such an impression in my mind to a point that for a year or more I would go into the same state of shock when I heard certain sounds and harmonics. Jets passing overhead would vibrate between buildings in San Francisco and my brain and ears would pick up before I did and I would start getting numb and light headed, have to sit down wait for vibrating sound to go away.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The initial fear of not knowing what was happening and knowing the nurse didn't know. The best was the calmness that eventually set in and I knew nothing would change except the body would be gone.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Most people I know are way too smart to have Faith or believe that there is anything more than this life, they don't believe in GOD or Jesus Christ, they don't even think a man called Jesus walked on the earth, so it doesn't get much play, that's why I filled out this questionnaire.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Harmonic sounds would set me into a state of shock, took well over a year to deal with that.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I found this website looking for a book to help me self-induce the Out OF Body experience, I knew Scientist at Lockheed Missiles and Space Company that would meet monthly for that purpose so I'm looking.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1preston_p_probable_nde.html