{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pozy_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Pozy M NDE 752","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pozy M NDE 752  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pozy M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						283  Pozy M NDE  752  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It happened when I was bathing in a pond. My younger sister started to drown and I made a dash towards the water to save her life. I managed to save her but got into a whirlpool myself. I was trying to bounce and take a breath but after a few moments, I got too deep and realized I had no more strength to fight with the water. When my feet touched the bottom, I knew I was not going to survive. The moment I thought about it I felt very warm and peaceful. I no longer felt anything else. I just felt good. All of a sudden, I saw a film showing all my life. All negative and bad aspects of my life, I could now feel myself deep in my soul. I was very ashamed of what I saw. Then I saw a tunnel with a bright light at the end of it. The light was loving and very bright, so bright that my eyes hurt. Some figures of people came out of that light. I heard a voice asking me if I was sure I'd done everything in my life. I still felt this terrible shame and answered, 'I don't think so.' The voice replied, 'Then go back and finish your work!' I didn't even have time to think about what the voice said because I suddenly felt a piercing and shooting pain. I took my first breath and it was horrible! The pressure burst a few of my air sacs, which lead to an extensive bleeding. The results of this can still be seen on my body.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    15.07.1995r.

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death I was drowning!

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was aware of everything that was going on.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I heard the voice coming from the light.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     A narrow tunnel with a bright light at the end.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Only the voice in the light.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Beautiful, very bright, I could see figures of people.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt good, did not feel any pain, I felt loved and needed.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I found out that you have to take the responsibility for your bad actions later. What's more, I found out I'd not done anything on Earth I could pride myself on 'there' in all my life! Now I try to help people more.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I have prophetic dreams and see events that are to happen. I was able to prevent some of them.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My values and beliefs have changed. Money matters are less important, are in the background.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I know I have a huge energetic potential. I was examined by a ......... I have helped many people reduce their suffering and (as I mentioned before) have prophetic dreams. I feel 'higher vibes' and know which organ in someone's body is ill. I know people's feelings.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was not feeling the pain and being immersed in this wonderful loving light. The worst was the question whether I did everything in my life. I was really ashamed!!!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Their reactions were different. From critical to respectful.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pozy_m_nde.html