{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1prana_sobe.html","mytitle":"Prana SOBE 115","mylang":"de"}
          	        Prana SOBE 115  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Prana SOBE  					  					  						Home  						Classification SOBE  						10065  Prana SOBE  115  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 I was delirious with fever following a miscarriage. May have become unconscious. But when this happened, I was awake and was aware of what was happening around. I remember that my child was sleeping inside and my husband was in the kitchen.  When this was happening he was near me and I could hear him say that I think she is very ill.


Suddenly I could no longer move or even lift a finger. As I was struggling to move, there was a sudden jerk and I was pushed out of my body and was floating upwards. I could see my husband near my body. I was hoping he would touch me or shake me so that I may be able to get back. But he merely looked at me. I wanted to tell him that I was not unconscious but dead. After reaching a level I stopped and stood still for some time. I wanted to call my husband and tell him about this. But could not do anything.


But then, I slowly came down in the same way and with a jerk entered the body. Suddenly I was able to move and jumped up. The only after effect is that I have developed claustrophobia.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Childbirth     High fever followed by miscarriage

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  There was a sudden jerk following my inability to move.  I was forced out of my body and drifted upwards slowly but steadily. I got back in the same way.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Delirious with fever. May have become unconscious. But when this happened I was awake and was aware of what was happening around.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No     

Did you see an unearthly light?      No   

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Mixed emotions

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   

God, Spiritual and Religion: 

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I feel I know what to expect after death. It makes me feel better about it.

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion: 

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No  Has not affected these areas of my life

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Experience of being weightless and floating and slowly drifting upwards following a feeling of inability to move, even after struggling to move

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No     

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the feeling that I was floating weightless and moving upward and the feeling that I was going to an unknown world. The worst part was the feeling that I had lost control over my body, could not move, and that I might not see my dear ones again."

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Never believed me and made fun of me, of course.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1prana_sobe.html