{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1portia_y_nde.html","mytitle":"Portia Y NDE 9618","mylang":"de"}
          	        Portia Y NDE 9618  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Portia Y NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5183 Portia Y NDE 9618  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    It was during a snow storm with freezing temperatures. I apparently lost control due to ice on the road, and crashed head on with a tractor trailer. I do not remember the collision. 

  I only remember being in a dark room, lying on a couch with my head on my mother's lap. My mother had passed 1 to 2 years prior, and she was killed in a car accident close to the same location of mine. My mother was caressing my forehead. I felt an indescribable sense of peace and love. I said to her that it is warm here, and I feel so much love. She told me that I had to go back, that I have more to do. I told her that I did not want to go back, and I like it here. I told my mom that I did not want to go back. I begged to stay with her.

  I tried to argue and I woke up to paramedic using the 'Jaws of Life.' I asked the paramedic, 'Where is my mom?'

  The paramedic told me I had an accident, and my head hit the rearview mirror. The paramedic said thank God the stem did not go through your head.

  I lost consciousness again.

  I do not know how I did not die in the accident. My car was crushed. Further, how my forehead was not impaled by the rearview mirror.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1995  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Other car accident, and lost consciousness  I had a head on collision with a tractor trailer.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was severely depressed and had a lot of anxiety. I actually suffered a TBI from another car accident 2 years prior. Also, I had PTSD from that accident, and my mother's death.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I am not sure, but I felt alert and emotionally regulated with my mom. I really felt peaceful, no anxiety or depression.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision was clear, but I didn't notice a difference. I no longer had double vision.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I really did not hear anything. My mom talked to me telepathically.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My deceased mother  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Bliss, peace, contentment  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  My mom told me that I have to go back because I have more to do.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   spiritual  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Other faiths- New age   I am spiritual.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     no comment  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am not really afraid of death now, but being older now and having a daughter, I am afraid of leaving her.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I was with my mom, who was already dead.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?              

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I became nicer and more compassionate.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I am still not able to explain the peace, calm, and the lack concern for my living.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  no comment  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        no comment  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    shortly after only with close friends. I don't think they believed me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I heard about white light and a tunnel, but I did not experience any of that.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real, clear and unforgettable.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know what I experienced.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My life and personality didn't really change until I was older and more mature. I was a professor but have changed my career 4 years ago. I am a mental health therapist now.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       no comment         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1portia_y_nde.html