{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1preeti_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Preeti B NDE 8095","mylang":"de"}
          	        Preeti B NDE 8095  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Preeti B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4219 Preeti B NDE 8095  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I have had three out of body experiences. I do not know what name to give it, but each time I have had a different experience. I am going to describe to you the experience that was the most significant one in my life that transformed my entire being.

I was working in Sydney, Australia as a consultant when this happened. It was sometime in June of 1998. My family and I were taking a vacation to India to see my parents. Due to an emergency from forest fires my leave was cancelled and I couldn't go with them. Since I was alone at home as my family had gone to India, I asked one of my friends to come stay with me for the night. I had a shower and when I came out I hit my head on the corner of the cupboard. I remember sinking to the bed and my heart was slowing down. I knew I was going I collapsed, but before that I screamed the names of my two daughters and said goodbye.

The next thing I know, I was out of my body.  I felt absolute peace and love as I saw myself lying down on the bed.  Then almost immediately, I was in a white gown with lace and a long veil like a princess on her wedding day. I also had flowers in my hair.  My hair was tied up like in a bun.  Although it was me in that dress, I could also see myself as if I were behind me.  The white of the gown was so beautiful, pearly-white and soothing to the eyes .  I remember the touch of cool breeze on my face.  It was so perfect; not too cold but somewhat fresh.  It was as if the breeze repaired any part of my body that was either damaged or distressed.  I cannot explain the beauty of the breeze as it touched parts of my face, like a baby with new skin.  I felt like I was radiating that same white light that was in front of me.

I was walking, but not really walking.  It was like floating towards this beautiful white light, but in slow motion.  It was as if I were in love but it was unconditional love and in love with the peace that was surrounded me.  There were curtains made of something like very light netting.  They were flying around in slow motion as I was moving forward.  Suddenly I felt like someone is holding my veil from behind and pulling me backwards. I was totally distressed and took a few steps back.  Then again, I would start moving forward with peace and love only to have something pull me back again.  But this time I resisted.  I was pulled further back and before I knew it I was in my body.

I remember going into a corner in my room and crying .  I asked my friend why did she bring me back?  I was so hysterical that she gave me a few slaps.  That's when I came back to reality.  Later she told me that she was giving me mouth to mouth resuscitation because I had no pulse or heartbeat.  She told me that she knew that if she had gone and called for the ambulance it would be too late.  She chose to resuscitate me and that's what helped me survive.

I was so confused about what I had gone through. I didn't know what to make of it as I had never ever heard about out of body experiences.  I told her the whole story and told her not to tell anyone because they would think I'm crazy. I kept all this to myself.  I didn't even tell my husband until a few weeks after he got back from the holiday.

When I went to work, I was very different than the normal me. I wanted to be alone and didn't want to work for the company that employed me.  So I thought I would consider resigning once my family got back from the holidays.  Just then I got a call from this unknown man who took my name and told me he has a message for me.  This was odd because anyone who calls into the call center does not know your name.  Yet he called me by my name.  Anyway he said that he was a plumber and that he was woken up in the middle of the night and made to write this message for me.  He said that he was directed to call this number and Preeti would answer. I was so scared.  I thought some spirit is after me.  The interesting thing is that the message was in Shakespearean language.  I used to love Shakespeare in school and would read poems and stories written by him.

The message was saying that I should not leave now as there is a lot of work yet to be done.  It said that if they wanted to, they could have made me a nun but I would not have been able to save so many people as I was doing now.  It said that I would be told when my work was done. The man said this and then quickly hung up the phone, saying his job is done. I was scared but kept working.  A few days later, I got a call from a lady who sounded like she was 200 years old.  She was so graceful when she told me that when I feel alone, I should go to this hill Sydney, Australia.  I should stand near that tree and look up into the sky and that rose petals would fall on me.THAT really got me scared. I asked for her name.  She only replied, 'Think of me and I'll be there' as she hung up the phone. I decided now that this was too much for me to handle.  A few days later my family got back and I resigned. 

A day or 2 passed.  There was a Sikh prayer session at a friend's house.  I decided to go there to help unwind mentally.  When the prayers were going on, the priest came and touched my feet. He said, 'God is within you.' I thought that was quite normal because God is within every human being.  Maybe that's what he is trying to tell me? But then he said, 'You don't understand, God is within you.' I got so scared I ran from there.  I went home and told my husband about the entire episode.  He was shocked and angry at the same time for me not having told him earlier.

A few weeks passed and my mother-in-law in New Delhi, India, went into a depression.  She wouldn't eat and her health was failing.  Everyone was worried for her and the doctors said there was nothing they could do for her.  I heard about this and asked my father-in-law to bring her to Sydney so I could cure her totally and that I would do that in two weeks. I don't know where that came from, but I pleaded with him and he agreed.  A couple of days later, they arrived and were staying with us. She would not speak or eat.  She sat in one corner and stared at the walls. I held her hands and prayed to God to heal her. I felt like I was connected to God.  In 6 days, my mother-in-law started talking and ordering me around.  (Indian mother-in-laws do that.)  My father-in-law touched my feet and said, 'You have some divine power.  I am blessed to have you in the family.'  I felt like I was totally going crazy.  I did not understand what was happening.  A few months later we left for Dubai.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  june 1998

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes       Direct head injury.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   I had an accident where I had a head injury

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No  See Experience  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was so conscious of the clothes I was wearing to the minutest detail; also, the cool breeze on my face. I just have to close my eyes and I can re-live the experience totally.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was floating, I was at the highest level of consciousness when I was there and not my life on earth or in my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was just filled with love and now wanted to be alone and give love to all.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I didn't understand the question.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I went through a tunnel, if that's what we can call it.  The curtains, flying in the cool breeze from the top, forming a sort of tunnel, like a tunnel made it.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   White, pure white light but it did not hurt the eyes.  The light was a pearly-white, very pure and clean like a cloud, but light and not as dense as a cloud.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt peace, love, tranquility, calmness, purity, freshness, divine and as a newborn.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   sikhism but i dont really practice or follow any particular religion...Buddhism is one i prefer because it teaches peace and patience.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have started being open to all religions. Buddhism is something I love now.  Meditation is now part of my life.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Slightly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   sikhism and buddhism

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Everything I do, I try to add value in peoples' lives and my life. I believe in love. Everything can be achieved by unconditional love.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Uncertain     I felt as though I was being repaired to come back to earth, as if a newborn being prepared to be sent back, but while I was there, I did not get that feeling.  I only had the feeling of being totally rejuvenated, repaired, and born again.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt like I was deliberately made to experience that pure love; it is the most beautiful experience one can have.  It was as though I were showered with that pure love. I felt it in every cell of my body and I still feel it whenever I want to experience it.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     I feel connected to The Creator in such a way that I could talk to him whenever I want. I have become intuitive I can feel emotions of humans and animals. I feel like healing the world.  My life is now filled with love and peace, purity and simplicity.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have become more patient and give love to all.  I am at peace with myself and want to make this world a better place to help people realize the essence of life and make people connect with their inner self.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Only the part where I experienced the white light, the feeling of peace, and, most importantly, the purity of the love that was there.  Nothing but pure love, I can't explain the most amazing feeling that I wish everyone could experience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I remember the feeling of the sense of love: everything totally, each and every thing.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I can talk to the universe and heal the environment.  For example, I can stop turbulence in an aircraft by talking to the clouds.  I can sometimes heal very sick people just by talking to them. I have experienced on nearly a day-to-day basis that when I speak on a topic related to the universe, I talk for the first 10 minutes, maybe, and then the conversation is taken over and some higher energy, the energy of the Creator, takes over sometimes.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    A few months later, they laughed and thought I was crazy.  Now people seem to want to know more but I don't share it with many.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     All the feelings were still with me. I had no doubts whatsoever, even now I can relive it and the two other experiences that I have had.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   While doing a meditation I did go into that experience, as in, I experienced a similar feeling and saw the same light.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1preeti_b_nde.html