{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1polly_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Polly R Probable NDE 4231","mylang":"de"}
          	        Polly R Probable NDE 4231  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Polly R Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2063 Polly R Probable NDE 4231  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experience was a little different because I was having a baby girl. I was told there might be something wrong with her heart when I was about five months pregnant. Luckily toward the end, she was okay. When I went into the hospital, to be checked, my toxic level was over the top. So even though she was supposed to be born on January 1, they had to take her early. When I was admitted to the hospital, I told the doctors that I could not breathe. They kept telling me I was having panic attacks and gave me breathing treatments. I knew something was wrong.  On the delivery day, I still could not breathe. This resulted in me not being able to care for her or hold her. I told my husband that I was dying. He assured me everything was okay. Then I passed out. I do not remember much on the breathing tube ordeal, but I was fully aware of what was happening.

I could not talk or move, but my mind was very aware. That was the scariest part of the whole thing, as if being trapped and not being able to move speak or tell what's wrong. I could hear everything, all doctor's discussions and more. Finally, I heard 'congestive heart failure.' But again, I could do nothing.

In my experience, this may sound crazy, there was a man taking care of me. He was quiet (never spoke). I never saw his face, but knew he was handsome for some odd reason. Anyway, I was on a round wheel type of machine I was strapped to, and this man would spin me around, stop me, and put some sort of ointment on me. I do not know why but I felt he really cared. He repeated this procedure over and over. I was in such great pain - it was horrible pain - the contraption was shaped like a sphere and there was a thumping sound that came from it, almost like a heartbeat. The ointment for some reason was orange; I remember orange, with this going on for two weeks. I experienced being in the middle of light and dark on top there was light below darkness but I was not afraid then people started coming to me. I did not know any of them. They would smile and touch my heart, person after person and the touch was forceful but so kind and loving then I awoke. I thought of prayers or maybe angels - what did I experience, so strange but, so great.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 8 2005

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Childbirth    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I think most of the time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I think most of the time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I can't figure out what the machine was and felt cold.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw the color orange so I know I saw color, but some seemed black and white.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The people I saw that I did not know, they touched me.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   I saw light up and dark, like a hole, down.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A lot of pain, fear, sad, joy, love, feeling of greatness and thankfulness and that God answered my prayers.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'I was and still am a Baptist, of great faith'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I feel like I need to work harder for the Lord, he helped me I must help him.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel like I need to work harder for the Lord, he helped me I must help him.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Taking a shower never take for granted, take nothing for granted, I was pushed more toward children now I am over children at church.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I prayed in my mind so hard for my children not to be without a mom when it came true that meant so much.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My mother and my father prayed for me.  I heard my father pray to take him instead. I could hear everything. He died five months later, my mother is very influenced.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was told after that I was not going to live they did not know, and I lived I was in the intensive care unit.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I and everyone else, including hospital staff, said miracle.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have been on so much medication, right now I am on Coreg for my heart.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am just confused about the wheel, what was it?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1polly_r_probable_nde.html