{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V20 1906","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v20_1906.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V20 1906","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XX
(CONTAINING PART LIII)
1906
The responsibility for both the facts and tht-jrmsonings: in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely --vvi^h-Iheir authors
GLASGOW
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & CO. LTD.
v^ ,
1906
£ 7fie Righis of Translation and Reproduciion are reserved^
109105
CONTENTS.
PART LIII.
OCTOBER, 1906.
PAGE
ON A SERIES OF AUTOMATIC WRITINGS. By MRS. A. W. VERRALL - 1
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
PART I. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE SCRIPT.
Chapter I. Introductory 6
Chapter II. Form and Style of the Script 18
Chapter III. Other General Characteristics - - 47
Chapter IV. Varieties of Dramatic Form Assumed - - 67
Chapter V. Comments in the Script on the Phenomena - - 84
Chapter VI. Unverifiable Statements and Allusions - - - 105
PART II. VERIFIABLE MATTER CONTAINED IN THE SCRIPT.
Chapter VII. Reminiscences and Connexion with Dreams, etc. - 133
Chapter VIII. Experiments in Conveying Information Telepathi-
cally to the Script 156
Chapter IX. Spontaneous References to Living Acquaintances - 177
Chapter X. References to other "Sensitives"; Cross-corre
spondences ------- 205
Chapter XI. Cross-correspondences, Continued - ... 219
Chapter XII. Miscellaneous References to Past Events - - 276
Chapter XIII. Miscellaneous References to Future Events - 319
ILLUSTRATIVE APPENDIX 340
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LIII.
OCTOBER, 1906.
ON A SERIES OF AUTOMATIC WRITINGS.
BY MRS. A. W. VERRALL.
PREFATORY NOTE.
I WISH to preface this record of automatic phenomena with
thanks to those friends without whose encouragement, sugges
tions, and criticism it could not have been made. In
particular, grateful acknowledgment is due to Sir Oliver Lodge,
Mr. Piddington, Mrs. Sidgwick, and Miss Johnson for constant
help, not only in the investigation of the phenomena them
selves, but also in the actual preparation of this report.
Many other persons named or indicated in the following
pages have been so kind as to check the accuracy of the
statements made respecting them, and I beg them to accept
my cordial thanks.
2 Table of Contents. [PART
NOTE. —Part I. of this paper is occupied almost entirely with details
which are necessary and preliminary to a complete comprehension of Part
II., but which are not likely to interest a reader who is not first satisfied
that the writings under discussion contain matter worth notice. The author
would suggest that, in order to form a judgment on this point, the reader
should take first Part I., chapter I., and should then proceed directly to
Part II.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
PART I. PAGE
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE SCRIPT, 6
CHAPTER I.—INTRODUCTORY, 6
Introductory ; history : early attempts ; renewed attempts ;
successful attempts ; script obtained in Latin ; appearance of
English ; number of writings ; record and preservation ;
sensations while writing ; influence of contents on the writer ;
experiments on conditions of writing.
CHAPTER II.—FORM AND STTLE OF THE SCRIPT, - - - - 18
Length of separate communications ; drawings ; hand
writing, generally representing the writer's own normal
type ; use of paragraphs and capital letters ; size and variety
of writing ; four classes of writing different from the writer's
ordinary hand ; inaccuracies ; meaningless introductory phrases ;
terminal phrases ; languages used : English, Latin, and Greek ;
antecedent knowledge of Latin and Greek ; proportion and
intention of Latin and Greek in the script ; philological
peculiarities ; words non-existent and unintelligible ; words non
existent but intelligible ; words used in special senses ; unusual
constructions ; crabbed style ; allusions to fables ; poetical
phraseology ; original non-classical phrases.
CHAPTER III.—OTHER GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS, 47
Aphorisms and proverbs ; quotations ; condensed expressions ;
assonances ; puns ; verse : Greek, Latin, English.
CHAPTER IV.—VARIETIES OF DRAMATIC FORM ASSUMED, 67
Conversations represented in the script ; apparent inter
polations, interruptions, and dialogues ; signatures ; classification
of signatures ; unfinished attempts ; unidentified signatures ;
proper names ; signs ; crosses : Latin, St. Andrew's, and Greek ;
other signs ; unintelligible signatures ; identified signatures.
Lin.] Table of Contents.
PAOB
CHAPTER V.—COMMENTS IN THE SCRIPT ON THE PHENOMENA, 84
Statements as to success, failure, capacity, frustrated desire ;
complaints of difficulty ; general exhortations ; exhortations to
credit the script ; directions given for writing, negative and
positive, vague and definite ; directions as to communication
of matter to other persons ; directions for the production and
improvement of the phenomena ; reference to personal matters.
CHAPTER VI.—UNVERIFIABLE STATEMENTS OR ALLUSIONS, - - 105
Unknown names ; unidentifiable descriptions : scenes, persons,
objects, anecdotes ; descriptions of supposed " isles of the blest " ;
allusions to Christian ritual or symbolism ; quasi-philosophical
utterances ; prayers ; enigmatic or oracular sayings ; mystic
sayings ; quasi-mathematical allusions.
PART II.
VERIFIABLE MATTER CONTAINED IN THE SCRIPT, - 133
CHAPTER VII.—REMINISCENCES AND CONNEXION WITH DREAMS, ETC., 133
Precautions for the preservation of the script ; classification
of verifiable topics ; allusions to things known to the writer ;
allusions to subjects recently in the writer's mind ; revived
memories ; emergence in the script of knowledge not voluntarily
recoverable ; connexion with dreams.
CHAPTER VIII.—EXPERIMENTS IN CONVEYING INFORMATION TELE-
PATHICALLT TO THE SCRIPT, 156
Experiments without the writer's knowledge : by Dr. Verrall
and others ; experiments with the writer's knowledge : by
Mr. F. C. Constable, by Mrs. Dew Smith, and others.
CHAPTER IX.—SPONTANEOUS REFERENCES TO LIVING ACQUAINTANCES, 177
Classification of references to persons living at the time ;
miscellaneous, unintelligible or incomplete references ; references
to persons known to be interested in the phenomena : Mr.
Constable ; Mrs. Dew Smith ; Dr. Verrall ; Miss H. de G. Verrall ;
Mrs. Sidgwick and her brothers; other members of the S.P.R. :
Sir Oliver Lodge, Mr. Piddington, Dr. Hodgson ; other friends ;
general comment on such references.
4 Table of Contents, [PART
PAOK
CHAPTER X.—REFERENCES TO OTHER "SENSITIVES"; CROSS-CORRE
SPONDENCES ...-------- 205
Cross-correspondences with other sensitives ; references to
Mrs. Archdale, Mrs. Thompson, Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Piper's trance
personalities.
CHAPTER XI.—CROSS-CORRESPONDENCES CONTINUED, - 219
References to Mrs. Forbes in chronological sequence ; account
of acquaintance with Mrs. Forbes ; first reference to writer in
Mrs. Forbes' planchette-writing ; first reference in script to
Mrs. Forbes ; first allusion to Mrs. Forbes' circumstances
unknown to the writer ; reflexion in Mrs. Forbes' script of
impressions of writer ; incorrect reference to Mrs. Forbes ;
definite allusion by Mrs. Forbes to incident unknown to her ;
visit of writer to Mrs. Forbes and verification of earlier state
ment in script ; experiment with Mrs. Forbes ; cross-corre
spondences between scripts of Mrs. Forbes and writer ; reflexion
in Mrs. Forbes' script of mental impression of writer ; references
in Mrs. Forbes' script to a book recently read by writer ; refer
ences in Mrs. Forbes' script to Dr. Verrall ; experiment in
simultaneous writing ; verified statement in planchette-writing
from Mrs. Forbes ; references in Mrs. Forbes' script to writer's
daughter ; experiment by Mrs. Forbes ; further references to
Mrs. Forbes ; cross-correspondences between scripts of Mrs.
Forbes and writer ; experiment by Mrs. Forbes in simultaneous
writing ; failure to convey impression of writer to Mrs. Forbes ;
general comment on the above cross-correspondences.
CHAPTER XII.—MISCELLANEOUS REFERENCES TO PAST EVENTS, - 276
Account of various verified references in the script to past
events known and unknown to writer : lost hat ; dormitory
notice ; cloisters of Trinity College ; basket with fruit ; river
"Dovinans" ; manuscript play ; garden ; inscription by Dr. Verrall ;
phrase to be sent to Dr. Hodgson ; veridical case ; destruction
of pictures by fire ; waters of Omar ; references to ueo-Platonists ;
hills in Rome ; Columella ; three letters kept together ; descrip
tion of small book ; allusions to Faith, Hope, and Charity ; box
containing papers ; contents of a sealed envelope ; bishop's
ring and cross ; form assumed by a signature ; Philadelphus
Coronarius ; Plato's Symposium.
CHAPTER XIII.—MISCELLANEOUS REFERENCES TO FUTURE EVENTS, - 319
Unfulfilled prophecy ; Millbank ; vague prophecy ; Logion ;
eagle ; Maidment; Didascalia ; Veni Creator ; unfulfilled pro
phecies ; breach in family; September 19th; Daily Mail ghost;
visit to America ; Marmontel's Memoirs ; cross on five steps.
LIII.] Table of Contents. 5
PAOC
APPENDIX OF ILLUSTRATIVE EXTRACTS FROM THE SCRIPT AND CORRO
BORATIVE DOCUMENTS, 340
Script of March, 1901, 1902, 1903, to illustrate development ;
list of dates of script ; extracts from script, to illustrate diffi
culty in recalling what has been produced, use of paragraphs ;
lists of aphorisms, quotations, assonances, puns ; specimens of
automatic verse in Greek, Latin, English ; supposed conversa
tions; statements by the script as to its own success; extracts
illustrating statements in script urging confidence ; extracts
containing directions as to writing, noting dates ; extracts refer
ring to possibility of conveying, information in dream ; list of
unidentified names ; anecdotes ; extracts describing supposed
isles of the blest ; extracts recalling Christian associations ;
oracular or enigmatic sayings ; mystic sayings ; quasi-mathema
tical allusions ; extracts from diary and script illustrating types
of dreams ; extracts from script containing attempts to guess
•words suggested by Dr. Verrall, and contemporary comments ;
classification of above attempts ; extracts referring to experi
ments with Mr. Constable, and contemporary notes ; extracts
referring to experiments with Mrs. Dew Smith and others ;
complete list of references in script to Dr. Verrall ; list of
references illustrating " cross-correspondences " with Mrs.
Archdale, Mrs. Forbes ; list of documents corroborative of
cross-correspondences with Mrs. Forbes ; extracts illustrating
miscellaneous references in the script to past events ; list of
documents corroborating references in the script to future
events ; note on " Wheel of the Master."
INDEX, 433
-
Chapter I. [PART
PART I.
GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF THE SCRIPT.
CHAPTER I.
INTRODUCTORY.
THE present paper is an attempt to give as complete an
account as possible of the phenomena of automatic writing
which have occurred since I first found myself able to
produce such writing, in March, 1901. The mass of detail is
so considerable, and the confusion and obscurity in the writing
itself so great, that if I were to reproduce the whole script as
it stands, even a very full commentary would fail to make it
intelligible ; many of the episodes would need elaborate comment
as well as frequent notes ; there is much apparent rubbish ;
much of the information, which I believe to be contained in
the script, is only to be obtained by piecing together sentences
occurring in different bits of writing often separated from one
another by considerable intervals of time ; and at least half
the original writing, being in Latin or Greek, would require
translation. It has therefore seemed best to give first a general
account of the writing, of its origin, development, and nature,
and then to treat in detail of various episodes, selected and,
where possible, isolated from the surrounding mass.
I have not been able, as I should have wished, to make a
complete classification of the contents of the automatic script,
as much of the matter still remains too obscure for such a
process, and moreover there is a danger that, in the desire for
complete classification, meanings which they do not legitimately
bear may be put upon some parts of the writings, or episodes
Lin.] Introductory. 7
may be pressed prematurely into the service of some explana
tory hypothesis. At the same time it seemed to me that the
only hope of making the subject intelligible lay in some sort
of provisional classification, but I have not attempted to make
this classification exhaustive or exclusive, so that, at the risk of
wearying the reader by repetition, some topics are treated
under more than one head.
Another and a much greater difficulty than any of the pre
ceding lies in the personal nature of many of the writings.
With this I have dealt as best I could. Certain parts of the
script have been omitted. In some cases pseudonyms have
been substituted for the names of real persons, or identity
otherwise disguised. No other alterations have been made.
It would be useless to give any positive estimate of what has
been omitted ; but I think it right to say that the script has
certainly not gained, but lost, by the omissions. Matter pre
judicial to its value and interest is more than proportionally
represented in the parts actually now published.
Before proceeding to a general account of the appearance
and contents of the script itself, it seems necessary to say
something of its origin and development.
HISTORY.
Early attempts.
For some considerable number of years I have been in
terested in automatic phenomena, and have tried to obtain
them in various ways. My experiences in Crystal Gazing
during the years 1889-1892 were recorded and published in
the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VIII., p. 473, et seq. With a few
doubtful exceptions the pictures so seen were purely fantastic.
With Planchette or a table, if I have sat with a second person,
I have usually obtained movements, though the results were
seldom of any interest; but till recently I was quite unable
to get any movement with Planchette when sitting alone, or
any writing with a free pencil, except a few letters repeated
in meaningless combinations, e, v, r, appearing and reappearing
as "every, very, ever," and so on. It is probable that the
letters of my surname, the word most frequently written
8 • Chapter 1. [PART
In ordinary life without conscious effort, were responsible
for the words produced.
I had come to the conclusion that automatic writing was
not possible to me; but in January, 1901, I resolved to make
a fresh attempt, and on this occasion the attempt was more
persistent than had been the case with the earlier efforts.
Renewed attempts.
On Jan. 19, 1901, I spent a quarter of an hour or more
in sitting perfectly still in a very dim light, with a view to
giving myself the opportunity of recognising any impression
that I might have. I continued this daily, and after two or
three days I put my hand on a Planchette or held a pencil.
But I obtained no satisfactory results. Unless my attention
were actively engaged in some other direction the pencil did
not move ; if I tried to occupy my attention with reading,
the pencil merely reproduced some of the words of the book,
or occasionally traced characters resembling those on a brass
table on which the pencil and paper lay ; Planchette was
altogether useless. After Feb. 2 I left off the attempts for
some days, and two later attempts on Feb. 12 and 13 pro
duced no better results. I made no further effort till March
3 and again on March 5 ; it was on this latter date that
what I regard as the first successful result was obtained.
Successful attempts ; script obtained in Latin.
When I resumed the attempt in March, I decided not to
endeavour to distract my attention by reading but to let my
mind passively follow any suggestions which might come from
movements of the pencil or otherwise. On March 3 much
the same sort of thing was written as in the earlier attempts,
words not making any intelligible sense but not wholly dis
connected ; these words were followed by Greek letters, Greek
words, and odd signs. On the second occasion, March 5, at
first the words presented themselves to me as wholes, but the
sequence was unintelligible ; then I suddenly felt a strong
impulse to change the position of the pencil and to hold it
between the thumb and first finger. Ever since an attack of
writer's cramp, some sixteen years ago, I have held the pen
or pencil between the first and second finger, and I had
LIII.] Introductory. 9
naturally held the pencil in the same way when trying to
get automatic writing. Now, however, in obedience to the
impulse, I took the pencil between my thumb and first finger,
and after a few nonsense-words it wrote rapidly in Latin.
I was writing in the dark and could not see what I wrote ;
the words came to me as single things, and I was so much
occupied in recording each as it came that I had not any
general notion of what the meaning was. I could never
remember the last word; it seemed to vanish completely as
soon as I had written it. Sometimes I had great difficulty
in recognising what was the word I wanted to write, while at
other times I could only get part of it. When I had filled
one sheet of paper, I turned up the electric light and read
what had been written before going on to the next sheet.
On this first occasion, March 5, 1901, my hand wrote about
80 words almost entirely in Latin, but though the words are
consec!itive and seem to make phrases, and though some of
the phrases seem intelligible, there is no general Sense in the
passage.1
Till the end of the month, with a very few exceptions, I con
tinued daily to write fluently in Latin, with occasional Greek
words. The writing was not intelligible throughout, but it
improved and was very different from the mere rubbish with
which it began. Whole phrases were intelligible, and in spite
of blunders of every description the general drift was often
easily apparent. The actual writing was my own normal
handwriting and the amount produced at each sitting remained
about what it had been on the first occasion. I continued to
use paper of the same size and the script usually filled one page,
that is, it consisted of from 70 to 90 words, but occasionally the
impulse to write continued after the page was full and I then
took a second piece of paper. The end of the impulse to write
was often signalised by the drawing of a long line. After the
first two or three times of writing I never read what had been
written till the end, and though I continued to be aware of the
1 See App., p. 340, for copy of early script. I have printed the
whole of the script of March 1901 to enable the reader to form some
idea of the development of the script, and for the same reason I
have also printed without selection the script of March 1902 and
1903. There was no script in March 1904.
10 Chapter I. [PART
particular word, or perhaps two words, that I was writing, I
still retained no recollection of what I had just written and
no general notion as to the meaning of the whole.
Appearance of English.
On March 31 occurred the first intelligent use of English,
namely the word " Remember " in peculiar and separated letters,
followed by " A. V. E. vale," at the termination of the script ;
on April 3 the script ended ; " God a Dieu Good be 'ye
Tuus " ; and on April 1 6 a remark in English was interpolated
in the midst of the Latin. From that time onward English has
appeared and continues to appear quite as frequently as Latin :
while there has been a good deal of Greek also from time to
time. Speaking generally, these three languages are the only
languages used, though occasional words from others are to be
found. Attempts to give facts are in the later script usually made
in English, Latin being used for the frequent exhortations or con
solatory and encouraging remarks that seem to be addressed
personally to me. But this is not invariably the case ; state
ments of fact apparently intended for verification being some
times made in Latin, or in Greek.
Number of writings.
The automatic script has continued to be produced from
March 1901 till the present time, with occasional intervals,
mainly due to lack of opportunity or inclination on my part.
In this paper I discuss and classify the script obtained in the
course of the years 1901-1904. I began an examination and
analysis of the script for the purpose of this paper in the
year 1904, and the last day of that year seemed conveniently
to terminate the period covered by what is here discussed.
Between March 5, 1901, and Dec. 31, 1904, I have had
306 pieces of automatic script written under the conditions
above described, besides 16 pieces obtained under somewhat
different conditions. These 16 were written at hours appointed
beforehand, and by arrangement with other persons who
agreed to try at the same time for automatic writing. They
are not included in the 306, though it may be convenient
to refer to them in the course of the paper. The 306
mi.] Introductory. 11
pieces,1 extending over a period of 3 years and 10 months, were
not produced at regular intervals. Generally speaking, my inten
tion has heen to try for writing about twice a week, but some
times I have been too much occupied with other matters to
make the necessary effort ; sometimes the writing itself has
suggested that I should leave off for a time ; or I have felt
disposed to wait without quite knowing why. On the other
hand, I have occasionally felt desirous of writing more frequently
than twice a week, or I have deliberately resolved beforehand to
try the experiment of writing on several consecutive days. The
highest number of writings in any one month was 16 in March
1901; 10, 11, or 12 pieces per month were obtained nine times;
2 or 3 pieces per month six times, while in one month, March
1904, no attempt was made. In December .1901 I wrote on
four consecutive days and then, after an interval of three days,
on six consecutive days. The longest intermission was from
February 15 to April 9, 1904. Sometimes, but rarely, I have
written twice in one day. I have not been able to distinguish
any difference in results whatever methods were employed.
Since the beginning of the writing I have never failed to pro
duce something when I have sat down to write, but occasionally
it has only been half-a-dozen words.
Record and Preservation.
The method of record and preservation has been as follows :
Up to the middle of December 1902 I myself kept the original
writings, in pencil and for the most part on large sheets of
paper. But on and after Dec. 14, 1902, the originals, after
being copied, have been sent to Sir Oliver Lodge one by one,
as they have been obtained, in envelopes which he has filed
and kept unopened unless specially requested. The earlier
originals were also sent to him in December, 1902. From
the beginning, each original writing has been copied by me
into a note-book kept for the purpose in which the date of
the copy as well as of the original is entered.2 During the first
1 See App., p. 354, for dates of writings.
2 In this book are also entered dated notes of all information bearing
on the script, such as verifications, refutations, possible explanations,
and so on.
i£ , Chapter I. [PART
few months each piece of writing was seen by my husband
always within a few hours of its production, and often
immediately on its termination, but since the sending of the
originals to Sir Oliver Lodge the script has not been regularly
shown to my husband.1
Sensations while - writing.
I have already described the conditions and the sensations
which accompanied the earlier writings, and need only add that
for the most part the same conditions and sensations continue
to prevail. Whether I write in light or dark, I do not look
at the paper. I perceive a word or two, but never under
stand whether it makes sense with what goes before.
Under these circumstances, it will be seen that though I am
aware at the moment of writing what language my hand is
using, when the script is finished I often cannot say, till I read
it, what language has been used, as the recollection of the words
passes away with extreme rapidity.
I have tried more than once to reproduce from memory
what has just been written, but I have never been able to
give more than a word or two and I have no impression
as to the general sense, if there has been any. The only
successful attempt at reproduction was obtained under the
following circumstances : I had written automatically imme
diately before sleeping, and I did not read it over. The
next morning I tried to remember it, and wrote down all
I could. The script (Aug. 25, 1902) consisted of 27 Latin
words followed by 83 English words, and a signature.2 My
eye had fallen on the first three words before it occurred to
me to make the experiment, and my reproduction was as
follows : " quantula pars rogationis—Latin first about 3 or 4
lines. then children and a mossy-something in a forest, write
to-morrow." I was quite unable to remember whether there
was a signature. What I did remember was correct as far
as it went, but the reader will see that it did not go far. This
1In May 1906, the originals were taken by Sir Oliver Lodge to the
Rooms of the S.P.R., where, under my directions, they were compared
with the copies for the purposes of this paper.
2 See App., p. 355.
Lin.] Introductory. 13
piece of script was more intelligible and connected than many
of the , productions, so that it might have been expected that
I should have had a better recollection of it. On other occasions,
when I have written down at once what I could remember,
only the last word or two has ever been recalled.
I usually write when I am alone, and. I prefer not to have
a bright light ; it is desirable also to write at a time of day
or under circumstances when I am not likely to be interrupted.
But none of these conditions is essential. I write freely with
my husband in the room ; I have also written with my daughter
watching me, and with a servant moving about in the room ;
on five occasions (July 30, 1901, Dec. 9, 1902, April 26, 1903,
May 11 and 13, 1904) I have tried to obtain writing in
presence of other friends, each, time with success, though the
amount has been less than usual ; it is quite common for me
to write in a railway carriage with other travellers present ;
and it has happened to me several times to be momentarily
interrupted, to answer a question briefly, and to continue writing.
On 21 occasions out of the whole 306, I have had a sudden
impulse to write, and twice after finishing, as I thought, the
particular bit of writing, I have had a strong impulse to con
tinue (Nov. 25, 1901, July 31, 1903). On some of these
occasions the writing obtained in obedience to such an impulse
has seemed specially interesting, but that is by no means
invariably the case.1 Sometimes the impulse to write takes
the . form of discomfort in the right arm or hand, but this is
rare; I have only noted three occasions (March 8, 1901, Jan.
8, 1902, April 14, 1902), and on one of these I was prevented
by circumstances from writing at once. My left hand writes
automatically as well as my right ; I should say that I normally
can write with both hands, and use the left when the right is
incapacitated by writer's cramp.
On one occasion (April 19, 1901) I had a feeling some
little time before the actual writing came 2 that I might want
to write, and this induced me to buy a paper that I might
have a support to write on, as I was just going by train; but
it was not until some 50 minutes after the train started that
10f these 21 pieces of script written under sudden impulse, 6
appear to contain matter of interest.
2 See p. 149.
.
14 Chapter I. [PART
I had any desire to write, in spite of the expectation aroused
by the previous feeling. Another time (May 27, 1901) I had
a curious sense of " expectancy and subdued excitement as if
something were going to happen," and I noted the sensation
at the time, 10.15 a.m. I also noted that I had no desire
to write automatically. But at 12.40 p.m. on the same day,
I had a sudden impulse to write when I was otherwise
engaged. The writing described the burning of a house and
the arrival on the scene of a fire engine. It is possible, I
suppose, that the same cause—whatever it may have been—
that produced the script had produced the earlier feeling of
excitement.1
One other sensation occasionally accompanies the script, and
has perhaps tended to increase. I am sometimes exceedingly
sleepy during the production of the writing, and more than
once I have momentarily lost consciousness of my surroundings.
The first time that this happened I was writing by firelight
with my eyes shut, as I often do, and got very sleepy, so
sleepy that when the pencil ceased to write and I turned up
the light I could not understand a word of what I saw, and
lying down on the sofa actually went to sleep till a noise
roused me. The writing (Feb. 13, 1902) presented no points
of interest, but perhaps suggests that more than one influence 2
or set of associations is discernible in the writing.
The next occasion on which this feeling of sleepiness occurred
was on November 24, 1902, and it was then more marked. I
copy the contemporary note : " I got very sleepy and lost con
sciousness, I think, in the middle : the writing was very violent
when I again realised what I was doing and more ' automatic '
than usual." Here, too, as in the earlier case, there purport
to be more communicators than one, and there are certainly
differences of handwriting. When this writing was over, I was
1 Possibly the account of the fire was an attempt, not very successful,
to relate an incident capable of verification ; see p. 284.
2 It is not easy to describe the writing without seeming to assume a
personality on the part of the supposed writer, of which I am very
far from being convinced. But it is convenient to use such expres
sions as "the supposed writer," "the control," or "the scribe to
represent the motive power which seems to the owner of the writing
hand something quite separate from his normal personality.
Lin.] Introductory. 15
left with a feeling of fatigue, and some discomfort in the right
arm ; I mention this as it is the only occasion on which
anything like a disagreeable feeling was associated with the
production of the script.
The next time that I went to sleep was in the middle of
writing on Feb. 23, 1903, at 6.15. p.m., when I had arranged
with two friends that they should sit with a Planchette at
the same hour. I slept only for a moment, and when I woke
went on with the automatic writing just as before. The words
then written were : " It has helped them and you will get a
message now plain to read." This latter statement was correct :
a message written by their Planchette was perfectly intelligible
to me, and introduced names quite unknown to the Planchette
writers.1
Two occasions (March 11, 1903, and March 26, 1903) on
which I was writing automatically the last thing at night and,
falling asleep, ceased to write, demand no comment. Three
times I have gone to sleep towards the end of the writing
(July 21, 1903, Sept. 27, 1903, and Nov. 23, 1903), but
whether the last part of the writing was written before or
after I went to sleep I am unable to say, as I was alone in
the room. Once, however, on May 11, 1904, I certainly
continued writing during my sleep ; I was interrupted by an
unexpected visitor who found me writing. The hand-writing
of the script thus produced is not my own, but bears a likeness
to that of Dr. Sidgwick.2
Influence of contents on the writer.
It has occasionally seemed as if I were affected by the
contents of the script, although I was not conscious of those
contents. Thus once (June 10, 1904) I found the tears
running down my face when the writing was over ; the
contents apparently alluded to two friends of mine who had
died under tragic circumstances. On another occasion (April
24, 1903), when the script was suddenly stopped by an
interruption from outside, my left hand, which was not writing,
was very cold and I had a recollection of feeling a wind on my
left side ; just before the interruption there occurred in the script
!See p. 250. 2See p. 26.
-
16 Chapter 1. [PART
the words "a cold breeze blows." I have said that only once has
any disagreeable sensation attached to the production of the
script, but I may add that if I am suddenly interrupted while
writing the sensation is not pleasant. Although I am appar
ently in a perfectly normal condition when writing—for the
number of times above noted when I have felt sleepy is
insignificant compared with the total number of times when
I have written without feeling sleepy—if I am unexpectedly
interrupted, I have a sensation of discomfort and a little
difficulty in adjusting myself to my surroundings, but perhaps
no more than I always have if interrupted in something
that has absorbed my attention.
Experiments on conditions of writing.
I have made a small number of experiments in connexion
with the script which, for the sake of completeness, may be
mentioned here, though it will be convenient to deal with
them under other heads later on. On five occasions—besides
those mentioned on p. 10 and not included in this paper—I
have tried to obtain writing at a time when some one else 1
was also " sitting " ; viz. twice with Mrs. Forbes and a friend
using Planchette (Feb. 22 and 23, 1903), twice with another
friend, Mrs. Dew Smith, who was sitting for tilts or writing
(April 10 and 27, 1903), and once at the suggestion of Mrs.
Thompson (April 22, 1903). On four out of these five occasions
it seemed that there was some interest in the results.2 Twice, in
the early days (March 14 and 15, 1901), in accordance with
the suggestion of a professional medium,3 I held in the hand
that was not writing, a letter from a dead friend, but no
1 I have purposely not stated whether names used in this paper are
actual or invented by me ; but wherever pseudonyms have been em
ployed, the real names have been communicated to the Editor of the
Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research.
2 See pp. 173, 209, 250.
3 The medium in question, who did not know my name, had on
March 8, 1901, said that I was an automatic writer, and later in
the sitting, on being given a letter from a dead friend of mine
in an envelope, she said that to hold this letter would help the
automatic writing ; she was completely wrong in her description of
the writer of the letter, but I thought the experiment suggested
might be worth trying.
LIII.] Introductory. 17
effect whatever was produced. Again, at the suggestion of
a stranger, Mr. Constable, who had read the account of my
experiences in the S. P. R. Journal, I tried to obtain an
answer to a question contained in a sealed envelope which
he sent to me through Miss Johnson. It is possible that some
of the references in the script written under these circumstances
(Nov, 4, 5, 7, 11, 18 and 24, 1902) had some bearing on
the thoughts of Mr. Constable, but no answer to the question
in the envelope was obtained.1
One other series of experiments concludes the list. On ten
occasions I purposely concentrated my thoughts upon a par
ticular subject, recorded at the time, during the last fifteen
or twenty minutes before trying to write. Four times (Oct.
27 and 31, Nov. 3, 1902, and Jan. 18, 1903) while sitting in
the dark and alone, I concentrated my attention on a particular
person; once (Nov. 11, 1902) I sat alone and in the dark think
ing of the letter which I held in my hand (Mr. Constable's ;
see above); five times (Nov. 28, 1902; Jan. 25, Feb. 2,
Feb. 9, Feb. 12, 1903) I spent the last ten minutes or more
in reading or thinking over a passage from a particular book
which had appeared to be referred to by another automatic
writer. The results are dealt with in detail elsewhere : as far
as I can judge the resulting script presented points of interest
in three or perhaps more of the ten experiments. They were
anyhow worth trying, as in my opinion results of considerable
interest and value were produced upon the writing of the other
automatist in at least two instances.2
!See p. 168. 2See pp. 239, 243.
18 Chapter II. [PART
CHAPTER II.
FORM AND STYLE or THE SCRIPT.
I NOW come to the main subject of this paper, the account
of the writing itself—its appearance and contents. It is
not easy to present this in a compact and clear way to the
reader, and, as stated above, no exact system of classification
seems possible. But I have grouped the miscellaneous mass
of details under heads as far as possible and a rough order
may be observed in the treatment. Thus, a line may be
drawn separating such incidents as are capable of verification,
or at least.- of explanation, from the more general topics, and
among these last there are some which refer more especially
to the form, and others to the contents of the writings. I
propose to deal first with the general topics, leaving the dis
cussion of particular incidents till the reader has gained some
idea of the nature of the script, and in the general account I
shall begin .with such subjects as concern rather the form
than the matter, though the distinction is not always easy to
draw, and in some cases a different classification might be
made. But such things as drawings in the script, its language
and phraseology, its tricks of style and so on, seem to belong
to the former category ; while the sentiments of the supposed
writer, the philosophical disquisitions and allusions, and the
descriptions of scenes may be classified as contents.
I begin, then, with the form and style of the writing.
(1) LENGTH OF SEPARATE COMMUNICATIONS.
I have already said that the number of words written
at a sitting varies from 70 to 90, but this statement is
not universally true. Once 265 words were written, in a
detailed description of a scene which has not been identified,
and once only 20 words were produced although there was no
interruption. But, normally, the writing tends to stop when
Liu.] Form and Style of Script. 19
one page has been filled, though the spacing of the words
varies considerably, as does the size of the writing. The
time occupied in each communication1 is about twenty minutes.
(2) DRAWINGS.
There is nothing in the script which deserves the name of
drawing ; I am no draughtswoman, and the script shares my
incapacity. But there are a considerable number of scrawls,2
which are not letters, and for which I can find no other name
but drawings. Sometimes they are used to illustrate the text,
as when after a description of a jewelled cross a representation
of the cross is given (June 24, 1902).3 Sometimes the scribe
expresses a desire to draw, as " the stone like this" followed by a
rough sketch (June 24, 1902,a); or "now for the ring—draw it"
and then follows a rough sketch of the stone set in the ring
(June 24, 1902,6). Sometimes the drawing appears first, and
a description follows: on Nov. 1, 1901, there is a drawing of
a diamond or lozenge, followed by the words " the lozenge
is important."4 Not infrequently the object drawn seems to
have no connexion with the words of the script. Thus, on
March 14, 1902, three shamrock-like objects were interpolated
in the middle of some writing entirely disconnected with them,
and on another occasion, September 18, 1901, an animal,
probably intended for a cat, appeared at the base of a writing
which contains nothing to explain its appearance. The cat
made .a more effective entry on March 11, 1902,s though it
contributed nothing of value ; three drawings followed one
another, representing (1) a confused oval, (2) a sleeping cat—
obviously a development of No. 1—and (3) a seated cat ; then
came the word " watching," followed by the drawing of a
mouse. Then was written: "Nothing to day, wait for Hodgson's
1 I use the word " communication " for convenience^ without
desiring to express any opinion as to the source or sources of the
writing. The script constantly assumes the form of a communication
or message, and I shall use both these expressions freely, sans
prejudice.
2 These scrawls occur in about one out of every three pieces.
3 For facsimiles see App. pp. 426, 7. ,
4 Nothing has been made of the lozenge.
5 For facsimile see App. p. 346.
20 Chapter II. [PART
next letter that will make things clearer." Apparently here
the notion of waiting emerged first in the form of a cat
waiting to catch a mouse.
What I have called drawings appear in 1081 out of the 306
pieces of writing. A common place for their occurrence is
at the end of the communication as a sort of signature ;
26 times a drawing appears in this place, and on 8 of
these occasions there is also a drawing in the text. Some of
these signatory drawings are of interest, and are discussed
under other heads.2
Four times a rough drawing with no meaning replaces the
few words of nonsense—sheer and absolute nonsense—which
often seem required before the script can get under way.3
On the whole I have not found that any value attaches
to the drawings, and, except where they are introduced to
explain the writing, they usually occur in the more worthless
pieces. They are perhaps slightly more " automatic " than the
words, but unless they are simply an alternative rendering, so
to speak, of an idea also expressed in words, I have no reason
to suppose that they stand for anything more than the sort of
fantastic picture or image which it is common for me to see
in a crystal, and which has no interest or value of any kind.
The most elaborate piece of drawing occurred in the script of
Aug. 26, 1903, and, though elaborate, is apparently wholly
valueless. It suggests nothing to me, and I can in no way
account for the production of the greater part of it. The
day before writing it I had been reading the H. Wedgwood
case quoted in Human Personality, Vol. II., p. 162 and foil.,
and had noticed the crest of Colonel Gurwood, a reproduction
of which is the first of the drawings in the script. The case
was not new to me.
(3). HANDWRITING.
Normal type.
By far the greater part of the script is written in my own
handwriting, altered slightly in character according to the speed
!Qf this number, 108, not more than 78 pieces contain anything
that can be supposed to represent a definite object.
2 See pp. 75-81. 3See p. 28.
LIII.] Form and Style of Script. 21
or size of the writing. I am not able to say whether the
pace of the writing is usually the same as that of my normal
hand, as during the production of the script I am not sufficiently
aware of the manual act of writing, as distinguished from the
mental effort to fix a more or less fleeting impression of the
words, to be able to express an opinion as to the actual time
spent in putting things on paper. Sometimes I am aware that
the words are coming very fast, and the appearance of the
writing confirms the impression that the speed was consider
able ; but much more often the whole process is slow, and I
am unable to distinguish between slowness of apprehension and
slowness of reproduction. At first it was usual for the whole
of each contribution to be written consecutively in my own
normal hand, varied only at the conclusion by attempts at
signatures, or farewell words in a somewhat different character.
Before long a larger hand was used occasionally, apparently
to draw attention to a word or to a change in the nature of
the matter conveyed : sometimes this purpose is effected by
spacing—the distances between words not always being uniform.
Stops are sometimes but not always inserted ; it is not un
common to find a full stop marked only by the use of a capital
letter for the beginning of the next sentence. But occasionally
the punctuation is extremely careful,—commas, notes of interro
gation, and even inverted commas being used. In the Greek
writing more often than not the accents are inserted, and the
breathings almost invariably ; but some of the Greek writing
is very rough, and entirely without marks, or in uncials, or
even in ordinary English letters for a word or two. It is
not uncommon for the transition from Latin into Greek to be
effected through the medium of a word or two in Roman
character but Greek in form. Thus on June 27, 1901,
the script began : " Quid coerces nenymon ya\ijvwv pwwv,"
with a little space between the last Latin and the first Greek
word, and the accent only on the last Greek word. The
rest of the script was in Latin till just at the end when
English appeared.
Use of paragraphs.
After a time the use of spacing was extended, and para
graphs occurred, noticeably on Sept. 20, 1901, when after
-
22 Chapter II. [PART
some attempts to give a word, the script began a fresh
paragraph with the words " The bird is nothing put it
away." and then returned to its attempts to give a word.1
Then a third paragraph began, " Non possum plurima hodie- "
and continued with remarks on the difficulty of writing
in Latin. The use of the paragraph has gradually increased,
and now it is more common than not to have the contribution
divided into two or more parts by means of paragraphs.
Capital letters.
Capital letters first appeared on March 15, 1901, in a
supposed signature, viz. " Pollux Cappa docus 2 ponet tigillum."
Capitals are also used in efforts to give a particular
word. In the persistent effort made during August and Sep
tember 1901 to write a sentence that my husband, unknown
to me, wished to have produced,3 the word " Cock " constantly
appeared with a capital C, and other attempts to give the
words were often made entirely in capitals. The first verse
that appeared in the script was in Greek capitals ; it was
part of a hexameter, the last word being spelled backwards.4
This is almost the only occasion on which any reversal either
of the letters or of their order has been attempted. The
absence of " looking-glass writing " is marked.
Size and variety of writing.
The writing is not always uniform in size, but varies a
little as my normal writing does ; occasionally, however, a large
character seems to be introduced for some special object. This
large character is in some cases just like what my normal
hand would produce if I tried to write a large round hand,
but sometimes it presents slight differences. Sometimes how
ever the handwriting is wholly unlike my normal hand.
The 18 cases of this large character may be thus summarised :
(A) The script occasionally makes more or less persistent
efforts to give some word or phrase, often quite unconnected
1See App. p. 356.
2 Where a space occurs between two words iu the script it is
here reproduced.
sSee below, p. 156. 4See p. 64.
LIII.] Form <ind Style of Script. 23
with the context, aud on five occasions uses the larger handwriting
in such a case. Thus, the first appearance of this kind was
on Jan. 29, 1902, when without any connexion with what
had preceded, it wrote in a larger hand,1 "gentile no
gentes gens togata vocat," and went
on with further attempts to give some Latin phrase in the
ordinary hand.
(B) Once certainly and perhaps twice2 the larger hand marked
an apparently meaningless interpolation; thus on Feb. 12, 1903,
came in large type the words, "And on. earth
praise" between a remark about " Hodgson " and a de
scription of a locked box. , .
(G) Twice the large type is used in what I have called a
"conversation" reported by the script (April 3, 1901, May 31,
1902).3
(Z>) Seven times a considerable portion of the communication
is written in this larger hand. Thus, on October 2&, 1901,
an unverifiable message was so written, and on May 18, 1902,
a verifiable and partly correct message was so written.4
(E) Twice a personal direction to me, in the midst of an
attempt to convey a verifiable message, was conveyed in the
large hand. Thus, on Nov. 25, 1901, after an attempt to
produce a verifiable handwriting, unknown to me,5 came the
words "Leave your hand to m e."
Four classes of different writing.
Where the handwriting seems to differ in type from my
normal hand the following classification may be made :
(a) 3 cases where the writing is larger but also different in
type. These closely resemble the cases mentioned under (0)
above.6
(b) 7 cases where the writing differs completely from my
own, but does not challenge identification.
(c) 10 cases where attention is called in the script to differ-
,ence of writing.
1 The spaced words represent the larger hand.
2 On Jan. -25, 1903, the interpolation may not have been meaningless.
"See below, p. 68. *See p. 201. 5See p. 126.
*For one of these, March 19th, 1902, see App. p. 348.
24 Chapter II. [PART
(d) 5 cases where a handwriting known to me is imitated,
or where the writing is said to resemble that of a person
indicated.
Some only of these cases deserve comment. Thus, of the
cases classed under (b), once (March 31, 1902) the unknown
and evidently fantastic handwriting seems to comment on what
has appeared in the earlier communication, and to show a
recollection of my dreams not usual in the script.1
One of the longest communications not in my own hand
came on Feb. 18, 1902, and I have tried in vain to verify the
statements made in it or to discover its intention. After a
remark in Latin to the effect that if only I would listen all
would be plain, suddenly in a distinctive handwriting, not
the least like my own, it went on : " in this long narrow hand
written two centuries ago or more. Can you not see who
is meant ? Nevile is one name Ralph Nevile, not of Warwick
a scholar, not a soldier ; four square and pillars no other at
all like it." Then in curious Latin, which I here translate : 2
" Dining at the king's table he there fell asleep. An unin-
scribed slab covers his bones, from his ashes broke forth a
great flame that created knowledge. This could certainly
be ascertained. The signatory set his name R. Nevile."
The Latin is odd and not classical ; the word commensal,
" sharing the table," occurs in no Latin known to me ; erupit,
" broke forth," is a correction for the word first written eripit,
" seized " ; the verb " to be known," a very familiar one, is
misspelt, scieri for stiri. The suggestion of the story is plain,
but recalls nothing to me. Some one, apparently Ralph Nevile,
seems to have died suddenly after supping with his king, and
to have received scant honour in his burying. I have failed
to identify the Ralph Nevile described.
Another of these cases is described in detail below.3 The
handwriting of some words in the script of May 8, 1901,
as noted at the time, is not mine ; it is not known to me
and does not recall any writing that I know. I subsequently
found that very similar words had been spoken in trance by
a sensitive at a distant place and at approximately the same
!For script see App. p. 349, and for comment see below, p. 153.
2 The script is given in the Appendix p. 376. 3See p. 207.
LIII.] Form and Style of Script. 25
hour. It is possible that the difference of handwriting is
intended to separate these words from the rest of the script, to
serve, in fact, the purpose of quotation marks.
In one case, May 25, 1902, classified under (c), there seems
to be an attempt in the script to reproduce not a handwriting
but a type of print in a book which it is trying to describe.
The paragraph is as follows : " Maupertuis and Sarrasin
not the crop, these are names in a book together, a
yellow book with clear good print early printed—some one
has just read it in a library with slanting sunlight over
level lawns outside the windows. a visitor to the house
the book is nearly square with a wide margin and black
quaint print It lies open on a table Maupertuys
and again in sainte amour et charite1
but the letters are narrower than yours."
I have not been able to make anything of this, and can
find no connexion between Maupertuis and Sarrasin. It is
not likely that any book about either of these persons
should use the type or the language which the script tries to
reproduce.
In seven other cases the script claims that the handwriting
ought to be recognised, but so far this has not been done. In
three of these cases it only remarks that the writing " should
help," or uses some such vague phrase, and does not say to whom
it should be shown. In the other instances it specifies persons
who ought to recognise the hand, but these persons have not been
able to throw any light on the subject.
In one case (April 27,190s)1 the script produced a very marked
handwriting quite unknown to me ; a writing which claimed to
be both described and imitated. As I was writing by arrange
ment at the same time as another friend, I sent her a copy of the
script and found not only that the contents of the message were
in part intelligible to her, but that the handwriting resembled
that of a lady unknown to me, of whom she had been thinking
in connexion with the subject of my message. I noted at the
time that my hand was cramped and uncomfortable at first and
the pencil slipped constantly till it seemed at last right. When
the unusual handwriting ceased, the pencil went back to its
usual position.
1 See p. 174, for further account of the incident.
26 Chapter II. [PART
The cases where definite imitations were produced of hand
writings known to me, are as follows :
(a) On Sept. 6, 1902, after the words, "Wait for the clue
on the 17th it will come. Sept. 17th write then. Let him
have it to see and countersign," followed a passable imitation
of Mr. Piddington's initials. To Mr. Piddingtpn, whose signa
ture was familiar to me, accordingly I sent the script to
," countersign." 1
{/3) Mr. Myers.
On three occasions only has there been any attempt to
reproduce the writing of Mr. Myers, a handwriting known to
me and exceedingly characteristic. On Feb. 3, 1902, an attempt
was made to give words described as " the test," but there was
no indication of what was meant by the test; on Jan. 22, 1903,
a statement—subsequently shown to be true—about what would
be found in the forthcoming book Human Personality" was made
in a handwriting resembling that of Mr. Myers : and on July
13, 1904, a statement in the same hand about the contents of
a sealed envelope said to have been left by Mr. Myers with Sir
Oliver Lodge was subsequently ascertained to be incorrect.
{1y) Dr. Sidgwick.
There has only been one attempt to reproduce the writing of
Dr. Sidgwick, on May 11, 1904, when I was writing auto
matically at the rooms of the Society, 20 Hanover Square. I
had begun to write, by arrangement, with several other persons
in the room, but feeling sleepy and not very comfortable in the
room with the others I went alone into the Library. There
the feeling of sleepiness increased and I knew nothing further
until I was interrupted by the arrival of a visitor. The last
words written under these circumstances are in a hand re
sembling that of Dr. Sidgwick, which was well known to me, as
are also, though less so, some later words produced after the
interruption. The contents of the script, which claim to be
verifiable, have not been found to have any meaning or appro
priateness.
(S) Mr. F. M. Balfour.
On Nov. 22 and 25, 1901, there was an attempt to imitate
the handwriting and the signature of the late Mr. Francis
!Seep. 81. 2See below, .p. 315.
LIU.] Form and Style of Script. 27
Maitland Balfour. I was not acquainted with him and never
saw any writing of his except a message of three or four words
with his signature, and that I had not seen since July, 1882.
On referring to the scrap of writing it seemed to me that there
was some resemblance between the last part of the surname
and the last of the three attempts at the signature in the
script of Nov. 25. Only the initials of the Christian names
are on the paper written by Mr. Balfour, while the whole
name is given in the script. I then sent the original of
my script to Mrs. Sidgwick that she might compare it with
letters in her possession. She wrote to me that though there
seemed to her to be a superficial likeness to Mr. Balfour's
writing, on comparison with his letters she found none in
detail. The contents of the script have not been found
appropriate.
Before leaving the subject of imitated handwritings, I should
perhaps say that I have normally no faculty whatever of
reproducing handwritings. I cannot draw and I am a very
clumsy copyist. Like all visualisers I have a very clear per
ception of handwritings that I have seen, and in thinking of
things written to me by friends I " see " them in the character
istic writing. I should recognise a writing that I had once
known if I had not seen it for years. But my attempts to
copy and to reproduce from memory handwritings familiar to
me have met with no success. I have no accurate or
reproducible knowledge of the details of writings even very
familiar, though by visualising a word I can often recall what
kind of letter, e or r for instance, is made by a person whose
writing is well known to me.
(4) INACCURACIES.
Throughout the script is full of inaccuracies, sometimes of
a sort that might be made by any one writing rapidly, or
not looking at the paper, but often of a kind not paralleled
in my normal writing. Of the mistakes in grammar and the
various linguistic blunders in Latin and Greek, I shall later
have occasion to speak ; I am here referring to slight errors,
slips, omissions of letters, and so on. These occur in all the
three languages, perhaps rather less frequently in the English
-•
28 Chapter II. [PART
than in the ancient languages, and are constantly of a type that
I should not have expected to find in any normal writing of
my own, however hasty. Dr. Leaf and Mr. Piddington appear
as " leaf and Pitherington " ; Plato's Dialogue is called the
"simposium." "Lith hill" for " Leith Hill," "changs" for
" hangs," perhaps belong to the class of printer's errors, as
do sprerare, equtum, solsituo, deii, pliana, for "sperare, equitum,
solstitio, dei, plana," but the form diffitilissrimum for " difficil-
limum" is not one that I should expect under any circumstances
to write in my own person. The same sort of error occurs
in the Greek : thus avaSe^eirai, evidently meant as the future
tense of avaSe^ofiiai, " he will receive " ; 6 craxfrpov, the masculine
article with the neuter form of the adjective ; and aoiSdi for
" poets." Such mistakes occur throughout, towards the end
where on the whole the script is much more intelligible than
it was at first, as well as at the beginning.
I have looked through other normal writings of my own
to see whether the type of error is the same as in the script,
and as far as I can judge, the two chief errors to which I
am normally liable seldom occur in the script. I am apt,
as I suppose is the case with most people, to omit a letter
occasionally, and a word often, but I can find few traces
of this in the script ; it should, however, be remembered that
when the general meaning of the sentence is obscure, it is
not easy to detect the unintentional omission of a word. But
the commonest source of error in my normal writing,—one
to which I have always been disposed, and which occurs in
type-written as well as in hand-written work,—is the omission
of the initial letter of a word ; this trick, which is charac
teristic of my normal self, under conditions of fatigue or haste,
seems to be wholly wanting in the automatic writer.
(5) MEANINGLESS INTRODUCTORY PHRASES.
It is quite common for the first two or three words
written on each occasion to have no connexion with the rest
of the script; they seem to serve as a sort of start, while
the thing, whatever it is, is getting under way. It is seldom
that two or three unintelligible and disconnected words are
found, except at the beginnings. I illustrate these disconnected
beginnings by random selections from the script : " Wensday
LIII.] Form and Style of Script. 29
Cover dale and Dement," followed by an intelligible and
connected message (April 24, 1903); " Polycept," followed by a
message otherwise consecutive (March 17, 1903). A particularly
clear piece of writing on Oct. 7, 1903, some of which was
evidential, began with the words " the Burnt Njal." I do
not mean to say that this introductory nonsense is usual, but
it is common ; the number of times when nonsense of the kind
described prefaces a piece of script is out of all proportion
to the total number of disconnected phrases in the script as
a whole. I have not, in fact, found any instances in the
middle of the script of nonsense parallel to those just quoted.
When a strange name or phrase occurs elsewhere than at the
opening, an attempt is made to give some explanation of it ;
as, for instance, on Sept. 28, 1901, the script had:
Asharbal why cant you get it right? it sounds Indian,
it is not— you can't hear it. Assharb all asher bell azure bell that's
more like.
Several other cases of this kind are to be found, and
some of them occur at the beginning of a piece, e.g. on Feb.
18, 1902, " Cucurbito or Curculio neither is right
Cur non comprehendis ? ", but the meaningless introductory
phrases to which I am here referring seem to have no context.
A parallel is to be found in some experiments made by my
daughter and Mr. Bayfield in table tilting1 when it was
common for the first few words to have no connexion with
what followed, and often to be in a different language. In
the table tilting experiments this introductory rubbish often
served to prevent the sitters from following what was being
produced by the table, and we usually found the results
better when the attention of the sitters had been distracted.
Possibly some similar object is attained in the case of the
automatic writing by the production of a few words of sheer
nonsense which serve to occupy the attention of the conscious
self, and so leave the subliminal self more free to act.
(6) TERMINAL PHRASES.
Certain formulas have a tendency to come at the conclusion
•of a bit of writing, though in many other cases there is
1 See Journal S.P.R., June, 1904.
30 Chapter II. [PART
nothing to indicate that a conclusion has been reached except
the cessation of the impulse to write. Sometimes a long line
is drawn, and then nothing further is produced, even when I
have placed the pencil afresh on the paper and waited for
some time. Occasionally the concluding remark will be of
the nature of a farewell, as " vale," " no more now," and so
on. Often the communication terminates in the form of a
letter : " yours," " tuus," followed by an attempt at a signa
ture; sometimes the signature is lacking and the script ends
with " Tuus idem," or some similar formula. The question of
the signing of the communications seems to concern the nature
of the contents of the script quite as much as its form
and it is discussed below in connexion with the different
forms (letters, reported conversations, etc.) assumed by the
communications.1 Nothing at all parallel to the initiatory
nonsense is to be found in the termination of the script. It
is possible that the occurrence of a short formula, such as
" satis," " iam satis," " finis," serves, just as does the drawing
of a line, or the affixing of quasi-signatures, to indicate to me
that the particular communication is complete, for, as I have
said, I am almost always sufficiently conscious of what is
being written to follow a word or two at a time.
(7) LANGUAGES.
Languages used.
As already stated, English, Latin, and Greek are freely
and apparently indifferently employed 2 for the communica
tions, though possibly a careful analysis of the script might
show some connexion between the language used and the
information conveyed. Of modern foreign languages there is
hardly a traced In the very first piece of writing, quite unin
telligible (March 5, 1901), occurred, between two Latin words,
a German word, " morgenstern," in ordinary character ; on
April 3, 1901, at the end of a Latin communication came
the phrase, "God a Dieu," followed E by "Good be 'ye"
1 See p. 73.
2 But see below for possible distinctions in usage of these languages.
LIII.] Form, and Style of Script. 31
and the signature " tuus " ; not another word of either
German or French1 is to be found in the whole of the 306
pieces. Italian occurs in two cases; on June 30, 1901, in
the midst of English comes : " The bird will come 1'uccel di
Dio ; " and on Nov. 5, 1902, there is an attempt, recognised
by the script, to write Italian : " Something says Italian words
to-night, sempre cosi bene sta . it confuses. In tanto
diletto d'amor." This is, I think, easily accounted for. My
husband was giving a lecture to the Dante Society on the
evening of Nov. 5, 1902, and we had been talking about
the subject of his lecture for some days, especially since
Nov. 3, when I had bought him the small copy of Dante
which he was to take to the lecture. I was writing auto
matically at 6.30 p.m., and no doubt my mind was occupied
with the lecture which was to be delivered that evening.
There are other instances of the appearance in the script of
subjects which had recently interested me.2
Setting aside then this last case which may be thus
accounted for, there remain only the three instances just
cited where modern foreign languages are found, and in no
case is any information given or statement made in them.
As regards my own acquaintance in this department, I should
say that without any accurate knowledge of Italian I read it
easily, and have read modern Italian novels as well as Dante
and Ariosto. I have at various times learnt a good deal of
Dante by heart, and many of his phrases come easily into
my mind at a very slight suggestion ; " 1'uccel di Dio " is
one which would be likely to occur to my normal mind at
the suggestion of a bird messenger. German I have known
since my childhood, though here again I am no scholar, but
I have read it and spoken it from time to time for 35
years, and when I was first learning Greek I was constantly
annoyed by the cropping up of German words while I was
seeking for the Greek equivalents for English. French I
know well and read as easily as English ; I speak it also,
irThe only references to French phrases are on Aug. 26, 1903, when
there occurs a French motto in connexion with a description of a coat
of arms: arid on May 13, 1902, when the words "fleur de luce" are
written in an English description of a coat of arms.
2 See p. 139.
32 Chapter II. [PART
and indeed constantly dream in it, and speak it occasionally
in sleep.1 In the imaginary conversations which I suppose
most of us hold with ourselves from time to time, I am
quite as likely to use French as English.
It has always seemed to me one of the most unaccount
able features of this automatic writing that French, which
has for me long and deep associations of familiarity and
sentiment, should altogether fail to appear. I should cer
tainly have expected to find traces of French in any expres
sion of my profounder feelings. The complete absence of
such traces is one of several indications that the subliminal
strata tapped, so to speak, in the automatic writings are
not those reached by the usual ways of dreaming or semi
conscious thought.
So far as I am aware there is no trace of any other modern
language in the script. I know enough of Spanish to detect
any attempts at it, but with the exceptions above named,
and a very few unintelligible collections of letters, which
seem rather to represent efforts to reproduce a sound than
attempts at an unfamiliar language, the whole of the script
is in English, Latin, or Greek. The English is perfectly
normal, as far as the vocabulary and phraseology is con
cerned, and calls for no comment. But this is not the case
with the classical languages employed. The Latin and Greek
of the script are at once more fluent and more faulty than my
own ; the vocabulary is larger, embracing words unknown to
me though often tolerably obvious in meaning and correctly
formed ; the grammatical construction is less strict than in
classical writers, and, in the case of the Latin, the whole turn of
the phraseology is often medieval or at least very " late " ;
the mistakes are frequent, and often of a type quite unlikely
to be made by myself; in fact, the suggestion, especially of
the Latin, is that the language used is one in which the
writer habitually expresses himself, and is certainly not the
language of the classical writers known to me. As this ques
tion of language seems to be of interest, I shall deal with it
1 I am not in the habit of speaking in my sleep, but when
suddenly roused from a dream I have found myself saying a
word or two, and these are quite as likely to be in French as in
English.
LIII.] Form and Style of Script. 33
at some length, and will preface my remarks by a statement
of my own acquaintance with both classical languages.
Antecedent knowledge of Latin and Greek.
For something more than three years before February 1880,
I worked steadily at both Latin and Greek, reading the usual
classical authors, and learning to " compose " in Greek and
Latin prose and Greek iambic verse ; Latin verse I did not
attempt. Since then I have been constantly occupied in
reading and in teaching both languages, but up to the time
when the automatic writing began, I had read very little
outside the somewhat restricted range of " classical " authors.
The only exceptions were, in Greek, besides the Gospels, the
Meditations of Marcus Aurelius Antoninus, which I knew
well, and the Latin version of the De Imitatione, which
came into my hands long after I was intimately acquainted
with the English version, and which I read but discarded in
favour of the more familiar book. I have never read the
Vulgate, or any Latin prayers or hymns, nor till quite
recently 1 had I read any Christian, medieval, or Renaissance
Latin writers, except a few pages of the Colloquies of Erasmus,
when I was first learning Latin.
I did not continue to practise writing either language for more
than a short time after the Tripos Examination in 1880, though
I have had considerable experience in looking over elementary
Greek and Latin prose, and some seven years ago worked
through an elementary Latin verse composition-book with a
view to teaching the rudiments. I have never been familiar
enough with the art of composition in Greek to practise it for
pleasure, but there were a few weeks, twenty or more years
ago, when I was in the habit of writing little notes to a friend
in Latin for the amusement of describing in classical epistolary
style the common events of daily life.
Proportion and Intention of Latin and Greek in script.
The first 21 pieces of script are wholly in Latin, though an
occasional word or phrase in Greek occurs ; in the next seven
1 The dates of my reading of the Neo-Platonists and other late
classical writers are given when that subject is discussed. Allusions
to Neo-Platonic phraseology in the script occurred before I read
those writers.
C
34 Chapter II. [PART
there are sentences in English, but the greater part is
still in Latin ; after that English begins to be freely used,
but Latin is by no means abandoned, being used in 186 of
the 306 bits of script. It has been less used in the later
than in the early writings ; it is found in 88 out of the
first 100 pieces of writing, but the later percentage is not
so high, and in the more recent writings the main portion
is apt to be in English with only short remarks in Latin,
thus reversing the earlier proportions. But, though it is now
not common for a whole communication to be in Latin, that
language still seems to be used as a relief, after a difficulty
has been experienced in saying something in English, as if
the Latin came more easily1 than any other language. This
I suppose may be due to the fact that the first communications
came in Latin, so suggesting to my subliminal self that Latin
is the best medium of communication. But this does not
explain why Latin was used for those first writings.
From the time of its first appearance, on March 11, 1901,
Greek has continued to appear in the script, but it does not
occupy anything like so large a space as Latin. The pieces
which contain it are fewer, and the remarks in Greek are
shorter. Greek, in fact, does not appear to be regularly used
like the other two languages as a means of communication,
but rather in a special way. Out of the 306 pieces 113
contain Greek, and there seems no tendency to increase or
diminish its use; for it is found in 40 of the first 100 bits
of writing, in 39 of the next hundred, and in 34 in the last
106, thus showing only a small diminution, which may be
accidental. There is no communication wholly in Greek. In
many cases Greek is used to convey philosophical or quasi-
philosophical sentiments ;2 it is also frequently used in messages
referring to symbolism connected with the Greek letter Sigma.
Another group of contributions in which Greek appears is that
in which an effort was being made to give a sentence which
was the subject of an experiment of my husband's unknown to
me ; as the words which he wished to convey were Greek, the
appearance of Greek in the attempts to guess these words is
I0u more than one occasion it is stated in the script that Latin
is easier.
2 See below, p. 125.
LIII.] Form and Style of Script. 35
probably not accidental.1 In poetic or highly-coloured descrip
tions in Latin, the script is very apt to break into Greek
for a word or two, and there are three or four attempts at
Greek verse.2 On two occasions at least a statement which
seems to have evidential value is given in Greek, once, on
Jan. 31, 1902, in that language combined with Latin. Speak
ing generally, then, it seems as if a reason could be given
in many cases for the use of Greek, or at least as if the
instances where Greek was used could be classified without
much difficulty.
This is by no means the case with the Latin. I am not
able to make any distinction between the use of Latin and
English ; both are used for the personal remarks apparently
addressed by way of encouragement or reproach to me,3 and
also for the communication of what are claimed as facts,
whether verifiable and verified or not. In the beginning
English seemed to be more often used for such statements.
Thus several attempts at a message about a pamphlet
which was to be given to Mrs. Sidgwick came in
English in the midst of the Latin, which was at that time
the normal language of the script. On the other hand,
the first description of an incident capable of verification,
and subsequently ascertained to be correct4 (May 11, 1901),
was in Latin. On the whole it may be said that for
some considerable time it was the habit of the script to
begin in Latin, and after some statements in English to con
clude in Latiu, but this habit was constantly broken, and in the
later writings it is quite common for the process to be reversed.
The more poetical passages, including pieces resembling descrip
tions of classical " Isles of the Blest," are apt to be in Latin
when they are not in Greek, though even here the rule is not of
universal application, one of the most definite attempts to describe
some such place6 (Aug. 8, 1903), being in English, after a pre
liminary start in Greek followed by three words in Latin,
while another highly coloured description (May 29, 1903)
which began in Latin went on to Greek, and after returning
to Latin concluded in English.8 In fact it is difficult at
present to make any generalisation.
1 See p. 156. 2 See p. 63. 3 See p. 88.
* See p. 328. 5 See p. 117. « See p. 116.
36 Chapter II [PART
Philological Peculiarities in Latin and Greek.
As I have already said, the vocabulary and phraseology
as well as the grammatical construction of the ancient languages
used in the script are not such as I should myself employ if I
were deliberately writing those languages. The following illus
trations are taken chiefly from Latin, as some of the peculiarities
of the Greek seem to be due to the nature of the communica
tions themselves ; where, for instance, the ideas conveyed are
those of the later Greek philosophers, it is natural that the
language used should be unfamiliar to the classical vocabulary.
Words non-existent and unintelligible.
A considerable number of words occur which are not extant,
and the meaning of which is not obvious either from the
context or the form. Many of these are probably pure inven
tions, but some of them are used with a curious persistence
even after investigation has shown that they have no
existence. To the class of pure rubbish belong no doubt
capricornatam,1 Arturocampus, texiculae, spargedulis, clargedula,
electryosunen. Roscidulo rore has a sort of meaning, but I can
see no reason for the pretty constant use of saepedulo for
saepe (often), other than a preference for diminutive forms,
which is elsewhere manifested by the script. A certain mean-,
ing can be seen in the words caligraphus calligraphiam posuit,
though the " good writer " seems doubtful of his spelling, and
the signature which he appended after saying that it was for
me to interpret, tu interpretare [sic] debes, and which consisted
of a capital S and a spiral, was described in the odd words
helix vel helicemorphistikos—Labyrinthikos vel involute, which
seem to be various quaint and non-classical ways of saying
" curly."
Words non-existent but intelligible.
The curious words produced by the script in its attempts
to give three Greek words chosen by my husband for the
purpose of experiment are discussed later.2 Other words
1 This occurs near the beginning of a piece of script and may be
a meaningless introductory phrase, see above p. 28.
2 See p. 156.
LIII.] Form and Style of Script. 37
unknown to any classical dictionary and inexplicable where
they stand, though not without suggestions of meaning, are
eterophil, monoecist, monoicus, /mvija-iKaKos ; iniagwhordns seems to
be equivalent to magus ; hagiologus, a " speaker of holy things,"
or more probably " writer of histories of saints," is twice used,
the second passage showing an unmistakeable reminiscence of
the first. Thus on May 23, 1901, the script had:
Accomplishment is better than success. Do you see 1 Note all
you get. The hour is important, agnus dei cum cruce eburneo. put
it down. Manifold uses are there for us all. Dominans in ripa
stetit hagiologus. Crede experto.*
On Dec. 4, 1902, the script began "Manifold uses are there
for us all, look back at that hagiologus is an
important word." But I can find no connexion between the
two passages, and no sense in either. Another word pro
duced after considerable effort is /j.eyepyda-Tv\ov (Feb. 2,
1904), which I suppose might mean a "large Labour prison,"
and seems from the context to have some such sense.
e<pe\icvcrTiKov is used apparently in the sense of " dragged
after," a non-classical and I should think impossible sense.
Trpocre\\rjvi^eiv is another odd word, which may be variously
divided and interpreted.1 e<nrepa£eiv, an impossible Greek
word, which seems to be formed on a false analogy with
the Latin vesperasco, " to grow evening," appears to be used
in the sense " to stay out in the evening." <riy/j.aTOeiSes,^
which first appeared as a^iy/maroeiSes, is perfectly intelligible
and regularly formed though it does not as a fact exist.
Words used in special senses.
In some cases words of a vague or even an inappropriate
meaning appear to be used in some special sense. Such is the
use of mansuetudinem, "gentleness," which on May 11, 1901,
seems to be applied to some material object ; a paper is said
to have been placed in a box and over it a mansuetudo
which is to be lifted off. The word supellex, "furniture," is
* Trans. " Lamb of God with cross of ivory. . . . Ruling on the
shore stood the hagiologus. Believe one who knows."
t Trans. " Sigma shaped."
17rp6s and "EAX?jv or irpo and
38 Chapter II. [PART
constantly used in a sense evidently thought by the script to
be quite definite ; it appears to be some piece of furniture
capable of containing an object, possibly a paper of importance.
Thus on May 31, 1901, after a reference to the passage
in the Symposium,1 Diotima gave the clue, it goes on, Fascines
vel fasces in supellectili, apparently meaning " a bundle in a
piece of furniture," adding that a happy thought is concealed in
the Latin tongue. On another occasion, March 2, 1902, the
mysterious remark occurs Supellectilem ero cedo, " I give the
supellex to its master (?)," i.e. " abandon it (?)," and as the next
remark tells me not to take useless things for useful, the sug
gestion here may be that supellex, as occasionally in Latin, is
used in a metaphorical sense, " superfluities." But on October
9, 1902, Purpur regale in samite odorificatum, "scented purple
in fine linen" (or some such thing), is said to be in a supellex,
and immediately afterwards follows what seems to be a trans
lation, purple but not fine raiment lying in a chest, it gleams
and a scent is there. But the word " chest " does not seem
always to fit supellex, and moreover there is an obvious word
for chest (cista), apparently not unknown to the script, as the
diminutive cistela (sic) is used. On Jan. 18, 1903, I am
directed (apparently) to lift up a supellex "in the middle and
find what is underneath," Supellectilem in media leves quod
subter est invenies, and a few days later, Jan. 25, just before a
passage unmistakeably referring to the quotation from the
Symposium and also to a locked box, come the words, supellex
is the nearest word, interpret that. Finally on March 17, 1903,
after speaking of a writing-table with a key in its drawer, the
script with some anger says that constant repetition is annoying,
that I am to take the key, and break the " supellex " if I can
not otherwise manage, Hxacerbat repetitio principii—cape clavem.
Supellectilem frange si aliter non posses.
So much for the use of the word supellex, which remains
entirely unexplained. Another curious word which seems to
be connected with a missing or important paper is the word
j-altela, to which I can attach no meaning at all. In form it
seems to suggest a badly Latinised ' fauteuil,' but I can find
no such word, and as ' fauteuil ' is apparently of German origin,
' faldstuhl,' there is not likely to be any Latin word, such as
1 See pp. 310-318.
LIII.] Farm and Style of Script. 39
faltela, even in medieval Latin. The word occurs three times
in the script. On April 14, 1901, something is said to have
been placed in a faltela at Pratio's—posuit quod volui in faltela
apud Prationem—and as several attempts to give a ' test word '
follow this remark it seems as though a faltela were some
thing that could contain a paper. On the next occasion it is
connected with the placing of a paper in a chest;1 after
saying that the removal of the mansuetvdo will reveal the
paper, it adds Faltela inest, " the faltela is inside." On
May 26, 1901, in a most unintelligible passage come the
words in faltela stat. recludere, "it is in the faltela, open it."
These three passages of the script suggest that the word may
be intended to mean ' envelope,' but there seems no reason to
suppose that the word actually exists, and the language of
the script in these early days is so obscure that it is useless
to attempt to interpret a word for which it is the sole
authority. On the other hand some of the early writings
have proved less irrelevant than seemed at first, so that I
have thought it worth while to collect together the passages
where these unknown words are used, in the hope that some
light may appear where now all is darkness.
There are further a few cases of words apparently used in a
special sense, though they have so many possible meanings
that it cannot be decided with certainty what is intended by
their use in the script. For instance, repeated injunctions are
to be found for the application of processes described as
destringere,—nexere,—superponere, to the words of the script ;
in particular it is constantly urged that if some words were
taken, sume, and some process of superposition were then
applied, superpone, sense would be seen where now there is
apparent nonsense. But no definite directions have ever been
given as to this process of superposition, and the later writ
ings contain few references to it.
Unusual Constructions.
Besides the above described use of odd words the gram
matical construction presents peculiarities. The most noticeable
of these is a frequent use of the infinitive instead of the
imperative, a usage not unknown in classical Greek but rare,
!See preceding page.
40 Chapter II. [PART
and not known as far as I am aware in classical Latin. Tu
modo patientiare is an odd way of saying in Latin, " only be
patient " ; tempus adnotare appears the next day for " note the
hour." Nor should I have written -xpijcrOai /movov va> crv/m-
Tr\acrereiv aei TCC oxrai/Tw? S^OVTO, whatever I had meant to
express. The imperative is also used by the script in
both languages, in Greek more often than the other construc
tion, but in Latin it seems a matter of indifference which is
employed. Thus on June 23, 1901, roga in epistulis is followed
almost immediately by notare diem, and on Nov. 22, 1901,
the order is reversed : Hodie committere aliquid chartae turn—
respice postero die tune interpretationem bene invenies. Here
the obvious intention is to give directions that (1) something
is to be set on paper, and (2) that something on the paper is
to be looked at, though whether the examination is to be now
of something already written (look back at yesterday's) or is
to be subsequently of what is now written (write to-day, look
back next day) is uncertain. In any case there seems no
reason for distinguishing between the two injunctions, and
throughout the script a careful study of both constructions
has not enabled me to discover any distinction in their use.
Nor has the irregular construction ceased to appear with the
development of the writing; on June 8, 1904, it is used in
what seems to be a prayer, 0 tu qui spem nostrum informa-sti,
patientiam insuper praebere tuis tibi confitentibus, " 0 thou who
didst give us hope, give patience also to those who trust in
thee."
Crabbed Style.
Another characteristic of the Latin is perhaps rather a
question of style than syntax, and consists in a condensation
and brevity which make interpretation difficult. This is more
marked in the earlier writings. In many of these cases I often
failed to see any sense at all, though other persons subsequently
discovered a meaning which was then apparent to me. It is, I
suppose, possible that the crabbed style and obscurity may be
useful in disguising the intention from me during the act of
writing, and so giving a more free hand to the subliminal self.
Instances of this crabbedness of construction are, on March
14, 1901, consolator dux fidei nee unquam caret quotiens
LIII.] Form and Style of Script. 41
discerpitur placet ne ? There was 110 punctuation till the ?,
but the words were spaced as above represented. It may be
interpreted : " The consoler is the guide to faith, and faith is not
wanting, if the words are taken to pieces ; are you satisfied ? "
Had I wished to express such a sentiment I should have been
incapable of putting it in such a form. Again, the following
sentence, at first sight quite unintelligible, appears to have
a meaning, but is certainly not the way in which I can
conceive myself expressing the idea : Communicatio prosit
necubiae necopinato ubi valetudo desit. This may mean,
" Communication may be of use unexpectedly in a sleepless
night when you are not well."
Allusions to fables.
Such crabbed sentences occur much more frequently in the
earlier writings, where also are to be found several curious
phrases which seem to be allusions to fables or stories
altogether unknown to me. For instance, on March 30, 1901,
grassulator petivit carnificem auribus istis non comprensus fabulam.
I do not know what a grassulator is, and can only suppose
carnifex to be butcher. Who sought or hit the butcher I am
unable to say, and so am in the same position as that of the
person, whoever it was, who with "those ears of his(?)" did
" not understand (?) the story." The next day there is again a
perfectly unintelligible allusion to some " smiling sisters,"
followed by the word Aesopi, which suggests that an acquaint
ance with Esop's fables might be of service, but I have
not been able to trace these ladies. On April 7, 1901, again,
Faux cecinit griphoni gryllus manco (a phrase capable of trans
lation if the third word is read as two, gripho ni,) seems
hardly likely to have been produced by a fortuitous juxta
position of letters or sounds, but can only be interpreted by
the recognition of some allusion which escapes me—" The
voice speaks in a riddle if the cricket (or possibly ' little
pig ') did not speak to the maimed." Animals 1 play a
1 For the bird which occurs frequently at first see below (p. 328),
but some of the allusions to animals preceded the successful hit
with the bird, which probably accounts for the later appearances
of the avis.
42 Chapter II. [PART
considerable part in the early writings: on April 20, 1901, we
have alopex non sine vulture in Monte Citorio, pes manco, " a
fox and a vulture upon Monte Citorio a foot to the lame,"
another allusion to the maimed of April 7 (above). This may
mean that interpretation would be helped by the recognition
of the fox and vulture on Monte Citorio. But I can make
nothing of these animals. Bombyx in vacua, " a silkworm in an
empty space," on April 24, 1901, may be a description of the
script itself and its misplaced ingenuity, and is a modification, I
take it, of the phrase bombinans in vacuo, " buzzing in a vacuum."
Poetical Phraseology.
A considerable list might be made of words or phrases in
Latin or Greek which suggest poetical or literary associations
though they are not reproductions of classical expressions.
Some of these occur in descriptions of glorified and unfamiliar
scenery, which are discussed later, but it will be convenient to
comment on the actual oddities of phrase here. In some cases
these poetical or high-flown phrases occur in no connexion which
accounts for them, and where they are of a type quite unlikely
to be used by my normal self, I have noted them among philo
logical peculiarities. The first complete poetical phrase of this
type occurred on March 21, 1901 : mox adveniet lux chalcidica
inviolabilis. It is not easy to translate this phrase, as the
meaning is conveyed by allusion rather than statement. The
" inviolate light of the Sibyl " that will " shortly come " sug
gests rather than says that I may look before long for a
meaning in the obscure utterances of the script. The reader
must take my word for it, that the rolling phrase with its
far-fetched allusion to Virgil's Sibyl,1 whose home was by the
' Chalcidian height ' of Cumae, is not one that would occur to
me naturally. So too on June 27, 1901, I was surprised to
find that my pencil had written " Quid coerces nenymon yaXtjvwv
pwfjLrjv ; " * and a little later in the same script " velociter
currit alatus pes, vehementior rota, ocissime autem nuntius
* Trans. "Why dost thou hold back the might of the windless
calms ? "
!See Virg. Aen. vi. 17, " Chalcidicaque levis tandem super adstitit
arce."
LIU.] Form and Style of Script. 43
dei alipes super maria volitans." * The phrase vijve/mwv ya\r]vwv
recurs in the script, and seems to form part of an attempt
to recall a passage in the Symposium? but there is nothing
in that dialogue, or in any of the other classical passages
where the phrase " windless calm " is found, to suggest the
rest of the sentence as given in the script. Nor have I
found any parallel for this use of coerceo, " to hold back,"
equivalent to the Greek Kare^eiv, nor does the Greek phrase
Kare-^eiv pdt/mrjv occur in classical writers. The word alipes,
though intelligible, is not extant, and I know of no passage
where a wheel is used as an emblem of speed ; a hoof or
a wing would be the more likely symbol before the days
of railway trains, bicycles and motor cars.
More than one linguistic curiosity occurs at the conclusion
of the script of May 16, 1902, this time all in Greek:
Movcrcuos ]wixriK-g ^pf/rai. eoTrepafeis, 5 Koprj ; KOI 8apdov<riv
y\av£ Kal avrrj <f>povSos r/S1;. d/i/3po<rirj re vv£ «7ri apfiarl
no a word wrong—somewhere. Put it right ask him
which.
The translation would seem to be : " Musaeus uses music ;
dost loiter in the evening, 0 maid ? even the hyacinths sleep ;
and the owl herself has now vanished. Ambrosial night is
wandering on her car." There is more than a word wrong ;
SapOova-i seems to be a false present for SapOdvovcri, and there is
no authority for ecnrepd^eiv,3 but the general sense would seem
to be as above. It is possible that SapOova-i * is a form of
SpaOovcri, the dative of the aorist participle.t but no form
except eSpaOov seems to have been in classical use. Both
words are poetical. The whole passage in fact suggests
poetry rather than prose, but contains no reminiscence that
I can trace of any particular Greek original.
* Trans. " Swiftly runs the winged foot, more violently the wheel,
but fastest of all the wing-footed messenger of the god flitting over
the seas."
t Trans. "There are hyacinths for the sleepers."
!See p. 313.
2 It is uncertain whether the original has <f>iory. or <f>oiry..
3 See above, p. 37. 4Note that the word has no accent.
44 Chapter II. [PART
On Jan. 18, 1903, in the description of a supposed "Isle of
the Blest " occurs the phrase Troy re evavde/mw " with fair flowered
grass." The phrase though intelligible is unfamiliar to me ;
Troa is the regular word for grass or a meadow, other forms
of the word being TTO'J^ and -jrola, but the form in the script,
Trorj, does not seem to be used. evdvOe/mos appears to be
twice used in classical writers ; by both Pindar and Meleager
it is applied to the bloom of young manhood.
A very curious expression occurs on Feb. 20, 1903, a/ua-
pavOivov Sei\ap, " the bait of immortality." The common word
for bait is <$e\eap, but Callimachus, I find, uses the form Sei\ap
in fragment 475. d/mdpavOos means "unfading," "undying," and
the form used in the script is a perfectly possible one, though
it does not as a fact exist. The combination of the two
words is entirely unknown to me.
In another passage occurs the phrase Kpva-raX\oTrr]KToi vaycu,
which apparently means " frozen founts " ; I have not found the
phrase elsewhere, nor do the words for " dark shore," O.KT>]
Kvdvey, used in the same script, occur in any Greek poetry
known to me, though they very well might.
In another place, Aug. 8, 1903, the original word ai5ro7n;£
occurs, apparently meaning " self-frozen " or " self-fixed." It is
formed no doubt on the analogy of Kpva-TaX\oTrrj£, an
Aeschylean word. The word Kpv/TrdX\ivov is used in the
same script, which represents an attempt at Greek iambic
verse.
On July 3, 1903, a word is invented, SeSd-^erai, evidently
intended to have the same meaning as SapSd-TTTeiv. It appar
ently forms part of a verse which is not given completely.1
Original Non-Classical Phrases.
Another class of unusual expressions might be made con
sisting of phrases intelligible as they stand, though not classical,
and either invented or adapted for the purpose in hand.
Among these may be noticed the following :
(1) On May 27, 1901, in an account of a fire given in
more fluent Latin than I should have had at command had
I wished to describe such a scene, the arrival of the fire
engine was described. This would have presented great diffi-
!See below, p. 63.
LIII.] Form and Style of Script. 45
culties to me, and I suppose I should have said something
about a machina, or tried to find some sort of balista that
could throw water. But the script was bolder and wrote :
tandem advenit fuscator magno equtum [sic] sonitu, " at last
came the Darkener with a great sound of horsemen." The
words are plain enough, but not such, I think, as would
have occurred to any writer of normal Latin prose. The
word fuscator is used in poetry, and once only ; it is
applied by Lucan, Pharsalia, 4. 66, to the storm wind which
brings up the black clouds and darkens the blue sky. It
would certainly never have occurred to me to describe the
arrival of the galloping horses with the fire-engine in any
such way as this.1
(2) On Feb. 2, 1903, the script began with the words:
" Cunabula cum narthece ceromatico possidet infantem deum,"
and continued with phrases suggesting a liturgical fragment and
ceremonies appropriate to a non-Protestant ritual, or at least
reminiscent of such a ritual. The general intention of the
passage is elsewhere discussed 2 ; here we are concerned only
with the unusual words in the opening phrase. Cunabula
evidently means a cradle, though there is no authority for the
use of the plural in this sense ; the script apparently thinks
cunabula a feminine singular, but that may be simply a
blunder. The words cum narthece ceromatico were completely
unfamiliar to me, and suggested nothing till after consultation
of dictionaries. Ceromaticus, an adjective formed from the
noun Ceroma, an unguent of which wax constitutes a part,
is used, as I knew, by Juvenal (Sat. 3. 68), " ceromatico
fert niceteria collo," of the Greek wrestler who wears the
crown of victory on his anointed neck. Narthex I knew
as the name of the hollow stalks in which Prometheus hid
the stolen sacred fire. Investigation showed that the word
ceromaticus is not used except by Juvenal, as quoted, and that
the word narthex is used of a case to contain something, and
the diminutive wirthecium is regularly used in late writers
for a doctor's phial. It is perfectly clear then that narthex
ceromaticus means a phial of unguent, but the exact phrase
is not extant, and it is certain that had I wished to write
1 See p. 284 for detailed account.
2 See p. 120.
46 Chapter II. [PART
of a phial of unguent I should not have used either of the
words employed in the script.
(3) Another example of the use of abnormal but intel
ligible Latin or Greek is to be found in a passage which
seems to have an evidential value as showing a connexion
between the communications of my script and those given in
Dr. Hodgson's sittings with Mrs. Piper. On Jan. 31, 1902,
the opening words were :
Panopticon <r<fxupas driraXXei crwSey/ia /XIXTTIKOV.
The words may be rendered : " The all-seeing (?) of a sphere
fosters the mystic co-reception." Panopticon does not exist,
but its derivation is clear : it conveys the ideas of " all-
seeing " ; ariraX\eiv is a not very common word used by
Homer, Pindar, and Theocritus, in the sense of "cherish,
foster " ; a-vvSeyfia certainly does not exist, though it is quite
regularly formed, and its meaning is unmistakeable. Neither
the noun Sey/ma nor the compound verb <rw8e^o/j.ai occur in
classical writers, but there is no doubt as to the meaning
"joint reception."
The incident is related in detail below.1
1 See p. 213.
LIII.] Other General Characteristics. 47
CHAPTER III.
OTHER GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE SCRIPT.
I COME now to a class of topics which seem to concern both
the form and the matter of the script, and which may be
described as "borderland cases"; they fall under six heads—
aphorisms, quotations, condensed expressions, assonances, puns,
and verse. They appear to make a transition from illus
trations of the form of the script to illustrations of its
contents. There is a certain sense of appropriateness in some
of the quotations and plays upon words, but on the other
hand many of them seem to be used to fill in blanks between
intentional statements, or to be due to some association of
ideas that has no connexion with the ostensible subject of
the communication. They are perhaps of the same type as
the " automatisms " 1 which Professor Hyslop has described in
his comments on the case of Mrs. Piper. In some cases the
meaning seems to be the more important part, in others the
form of expression appears to be the determining cause of
their introduction. The reader will best judge of their
characteristics when the facts are before him.
(I.) APHORISMS, PROVERBS, &c.
Throughout the writings, but more especially at the beginning,
are to be found what I have called aphorisms. In many
cases these seem to be perverted proverbs, the sort of sentence
that one might make up in dreams, epigrammatic in form but
with little or no meaning on a closer examination. To this
class belong (May 23, 1901) "Accomplishment is better
than success. Do you see?"; (Sept. 7, 1901) "Too many
swallows and the summer is spoilt," which seems to be a
1 See Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XVI., p. 238.
48 Chapter III. [PART
hybrid recollection of two common proverbs with yet a kind
of meaning behind it. On Jan. 8, 1902, a higher flight was
tried : " Never try with spun thread of your own fashioning
to interpret the divine—spindle. Lachesis will clip." This
loftier vein still showed itself in the next piece of writing on
January 11, 1902, when I was told: " Faith than Hope greater
removes mountains." This is analogous to the ' quotations '
of the next section.1 The sententiousness of dreams,—verbose
enunciation of the commonplace—appears on March 26, 1902,
in the words, " Not yet is the fulness of time—reaping follows
the full sheaves," as also in the remark on the same subject
on March 19, 1902: "Many harvests go to the fulfilment of
the crop of promise." The application of the proverb about
" pearls to the swine " has a certain appropriateness where
it occurs in an early writing, April 14, 1901, and perhaps
is deliberately intended. It runs thus : margaritae vecriv tibi
meae forsitan sine pratio. Reading pretio for pratio the whole
sentence may be rendered " Pearls before swine, perhaps my
pearls seem valueless to you." 2 The other proverbial phrases
above quoted seem however to have no applicability to their
context and occur apparently as spontaneous observations. Nor
is it easy to see what is the point of the words3 dubium omne
ditbium, pro ignoto which precede a confused communication
on Sept. 6, 1902.
The opening words of Oct. 9, 1902, though cast in this
mould, may yet be meant to convey a practical hint, " Dreamers
see most of the truth—in golden visions of the dawn." The
script is fond of insisti ig on the usefulness of sleep : " Sleep
is better," on May 13, 1903, gives the same idea, and it is
often suggested that I should " listen in sleep " or leave off
writing now and sleep.4
The occurrence of these aphorisms is almost entirely confined
to the earlier writings ; there has been only one in the last
1 See p. 49.
2 As my own name is Margaret, it is possible that some notion
of a punning reference to that name has suggested the phrase.
3 The phrase recurs in an inverted form on Jan. 14, 1903, "omne
ignotum pro dubio—in his atque in omnibus rebus," adds the
script.
4 For connexion between script and dreams see below, p. 148.
Liu.] Other General Characteristics. 49
two years. On August 21, 1904, the script began: " Econ
Economics Haste dictates what Wisdom shuns." The appli
cation of the proverbial condemnation of haste to the subject
of economics may be a reflexion of the general interest felt
at the time in the Fiscal question. The rest of the writing
deals with wholly different subjects.1
(II.) QUOTATIONS.
These are very much more frequent than the aphorisms. In
the whole number of writings, 306, I have found 75 phrases
which are obvious reminiscences of passages in familiar authors.
I have not included in this list one or two cases where a
definite reference is made to a passage in some author as
being contained, for instance, in a sealed envelope, or referred
to in a book not read by me ; these are regarded as
intentional remarks on the part of the scribe. What I now
discuss is the appearance of familiar phrases, such as "come
unto these yellow sands " or " multum in parvo " in the
body of the script, without apparent connexion with the
context.
A complete list of such quotations as I have recognised is
given in the Appendix, with references in most cases to the
original authors.2 It will be seen that the three languages
have been placed under contribution, but Latin furnishes far
the largest number, 48 being in Latin, 24 in English and
3 in Greek. A point bearing on the question of language is
that the quotations occur with much greater frequency in the
earlier than in the later writings, 35 coming in the first
100 pieces, 26 in the second 100, and 14 in the last 106.
If the 22 quotations occurring in the first two months of the
writing (27 pieces of writing) are excluded, it will be seen that
of the 53 quotations left, 26 are in Latin to 24 in English and
3 in Greek, so that the predominance of Latin quotations seems
due to the disproportionate frequency of quotations in the
early days of the script.
1 See App., p. 356, for complete list of aphorisms, which is not
large.
2 See App., pp. 357-360.
D
50 Chapter III. [PART
It will be remembered that the script became much more
intelligible than it was at first, and similarly the early quota
tions seem to have had little or no connexion with the
context in which they appear, while in the later writings
the quotations are more intelligently applied. At the begin
ning they seem to be thrown out as if they were lumber of
the mind, bits of floating rubbish carried out with the stream
at the opening of the sluices ; later on they are apparently
intentional, and serve to illustrate a point or to suggest a
definite image or line of thought.
Comment on Quotations.
The first few quotations have no meaning where they occur,
but are mainly very familiar phrases. They are certainly not
what I should have consciously introduced, but there is
nothing remarkable in finding, for instance, a reference to
Constantine's motto,—though the words would normally occur
to me in Greek as they are said to have appeared to him,
ei/ TOVTW V'IKO.,—or to the familiar phrase " o si sic omnes ! "
or again to the transitoriness of worldly fame, " ubi nunc est
gloria mundi." Horace's non omnis moriar, " I shall not wholly
die," is almost inevitable under the circumstances, and so is
Aeneas' account of the change in the dead Hector who came
to him in a dream, quantum mutatus db illo.
On March 14, 1901, in a piece of writing rather more
intelligible than its predecessors, and containing the first of
many puns,1 came the words tandem, habes tota quod, mente
petisti? " At last, thou hast what thy whole heart desired."
The quotation appears in Mr. Myers' Presidential Address to
the S.P.R., delivered in May, 1900.3 The word tandem is
not in the original Virgil, but translates the words ' at last '
immediately preceding the quotation from Virgil in the Presi
dential Address. It would therefore seem that the source for
the phrase in my script is a reminiscence not of Virgil but
of Mr. Myers' Address.
One of two quotations on March 15, is optimo dierum,
iSee pp. 60, 280. 2 Virgil, Am. iv. 100.
3 See Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XV., p. 114.
LIU.] Other General Characteristics. 51
" best of days," an expression applied by Catullus to the
chief day of the festival of the Saturnalia. The same phrase
recurs on April 3, 1901, where it is clearly intended to mean
some particular day. It is probable that the day intended
is Sunday ; it is at least certain that on the Sunday
following the first reference to optima clierum, I had a
very strong desire1 to write, though the circumstances were
not such as had up to that point invariably accompanied the
production of the script.2 Again, if optima dierum be taken
to mean Sunday, the phrase of April 3, 1903, becomes intellig
ible. But, so far as I know, there is no reason to suppose that
the Latin words optimus dierum were ever used to represent
Sunday, nor when they first occurred in the script did they
suggest any meaning to me but the Saturnalia.
The quotation, " Dianae sumus in fide," written on the above
described Sunday, March 17, immediately after the statement
that " to-day I can probably do something," is also from
Catullus, and perhaps confirms the notion that the vague sug
gestion of a date on March 15 was meant to be Sunday. Here
too something more intelligent than the mere citation of a
stray tag of verse may have been intended ; for Mrs. Forbes'
Christian name is Diana, and a few days later3 there appears
in my script the first recognised attempt to set up a con
nexion between her writing and mine.
There follow several quotations of no interest, and seeming
to represent merely reminiscences of familiar formulas. In a
reference to Tennyson, on June 23, 1901, for the first time the
script seems to be aware that an attempt is being made to
quote, and apparently supposes that the quotation is appropriate.
But the allusion, if there is one, remains unidentified. On
August 7, 1901, the quotation vile potdbis seems to be an
attempt, recognised as a failure, to say something, for it is
followed by the words " that's not right," and further unsuc
cessful attempts. The same may be said of Keats' phrase
"palely loitering" on September 14, 1901.
1 See below, p. 286, for a suggestion about the Saturnalia.
2 I was not alone, and the hour was an unusual one ; see below,
p. 221.
3 See p. 222.
52 Chapter III. [PART
Twice quotations are introduced with some apparent intelli
gence, though they convey no meaning to me ; the script
recognises in one case (Dec. 5, 1901) that it is referring to
a Scotch Ballad, and in the other (March 26, 1902) that the
quotation is or should be a help to interpretation, and on
other occasions something similar seems to have occurred.
A quotation from Browning on October 8, 1902, may have
been an effort to produce something verifiable,1 for on the
day when, on my way back from London, I wrote automati
cally " to the dark tower came who ? " my husband had, during
my absence, and unknown to me, been reading Browning's
poem " Childe Roland to the dark tower came."
Some of the later quotations are perfectly intelligible in their
context, and bear no resemblance to the wholly inappropriate
tags which occurred at first. On May 14, 1904, the opening
words of the myth in the Phaedrus are given and recognised
as such by the script.2 Two other quotations are introduced
appropriately; thus, on June 24, 1904, a disquisition on the
attitude of mind towards an offender is preceded by the remark
that sometimes " Saeva indignatio is just." On October 21,
1904, a reference to the death of two sisters ends with an
allusion to Horace's ode on the death of Quintilius.
Of two quotations, which occurred on the same day, Oct. 23,
1903, one seems to be of some interest in connexion with
its context, and I here relate what I have been able to
make out about its meaning.
On Oct. 21 there had been written a fragmentary verse
about faith and hope, followed by a plain allusion to a pas
sage in the Theaetetus of Plato, where Socrates says that there
is no other beginning of wisdom but wonder, and that it is
rightly said that Iris (the rainbow messenger of the gods)
is the child of Thaumas (Wonder). On Oct. 23 another allu
sion was made to the verse about faith and hope, and then
after the words " let her write," the script went on :
These three are great, but greater than they is Wonder's daugh
ter. The stern Lawgiver is not so fair, Seek and ye shall,
Wisdom comes not unsought, and one comes to call who is not
there for the wishing. The child of wonder is a fairer figure and
1 See p. 189. 2 See p. 145.
Lin.] Other General Characteristics. 53
a mightier than the rainbow of Hope,—no messenger but the divine.
Better than Faith Hope and Charity is Wonder's child.
It was obvious at once that the writing of the 23rd
alluded to the writing of two days before. The transition
from " faith and hope " to " Iris," not explained in the earlier
script, is made clear on the second occasion by the words
" rainbow of Hope " which supply the connecting link. The
intention of the second script is perfectly plain ; two points
are made : (1) Great are Faith Hope and Charity, but greater
still is Wisdom ; (2) Wisdom must be sought.
The second of these points is made by the uncompleted
reference to S. Matt. 7. 7 (or S. Luke 11. 9), and the words
next following. What at the time struck me as curious was
the sudden appearance in this context of the phrase from the
Gospels. The other phrases, " child of wonder," " daughter of
wonder," " rainbow of Hope," " messenger," are Platonic,
definite reminiscences of the Theaetetus, as was recognised by
the script of Oct. 21, and I knew no reason for their asso
ciation with the Gospel phrase.
But some little time later I found that the Gospel saying
and the Platonic view that the beginning of Wisdom (or
Philosophy) is Wonder, have been closely associated by other
minds, though this was entirely unknown to me when the
script was produced. I discovered it accidentally in the
following way :
In the Times of Nov. 14, 1903, I found an account of
one of the recently discovered Sayings of Jesiis, now published
in the fourth volume of the Oxyrhyncus Papyri. Dr. Gren-
fell had been lecturing in London on Nov. 13 (as also in
Cambridge on Nov. 10), and his translation of this "logion"
was thus given in the Times : " Let not him that seeketh
cease from his search until he find, and when he finds he
shall wonder ; wondering he shall reach the kingdom (i.e. of
heaven), and when he reaches the kingdom he shall have
rest."
I had not heard the lecture at Cambridge, but when I read
this report it struck me that there was a certain resemblance
between its phrases and my recent script, and when the
fourth volume of the Oxyrhyncus Papyri appeared, in May or
54 Chapter III. [PART
June, 1904, I found that Clement of Alexandria had certainly
connected the Gospel saying with the Platonic phrase. In
the comment on the Saying (Ox. Pap., Vol. IV., p. 5), it is
stated that the logion in question is twice quoted by Clement
of Alexandria as from the Gospel according to the Hebrews,
on the first occasion to "show that the beginning of philosophy
is wonder " ; and the logion itself is said to be parallel to
Matt. 7. 7, "Seek and ye shall find."
It may be that all this is irrelevant, and that my own
knowledge was sufficient to account for the juxtaposition of
the Platonic and the Gospel passages, though I had never
consciously thought of any such connexion. But it is perhaps
noteworthy that the juxtaposition should have been made in
the script just before the occurrence of an opportunity of
finding an explanation of that combination of phrases which
had surprised me. I never had any knowledge of the
matter contained in the Logia till I read the report in the
Times of Dr. Grenfell's lecture, so that the words of the script
cannot have been a reminiscence.1
To sum up then, it will be seen that the quotations are
of two kinds : (1) mere tags introduced with no appropriate
ness, and (2) reminiscences apparently used deliberately, though
the purpose is not always ascertainable. The former class occur
mainly in the earlier writings, and seem to approximate to the
" aphorisms " of the script, and perhaps to the automatisms of
Professor Hyslop, while the latter are to be found in the later
script, which is on the whole fairly intelligible. The sources
of the quotations call for no special comment ; the authors
from whom they are derived are accessible and familiar ; but
with a few exceptions they are not the quotations most familiar
to me, or such as would first occur to me were I asked for
a list of familiar quotations. The absence of French, prose
or verse, is noticeable here as above ; were I to draw up a
list of the phrases constantly occurring to me in daily life,
French literature would furnish a large portion of the
whole.2
!See also p. 321.
2 It was at some period in the early part of 1904, when analysing
the contents of the script, that I first noticed the absence of French
phrases and allusions in the script.
LIU.] Other General Characteristics. 55
(III.) CONDENSED EXPRESSIONS.
Tt has happened occasionally that an unintelligible expression
has subsequently been expanded into words with a meaning, thus
suggesting that at the first attempt the idea has emerged in the
condensed fqrm called by ' Lewis Carroll ' a " portmanteau." I
have found two instances of this, both in the early* script, and
there may be others unrecognised. On March 8, 1901, the word
dbsolevisti appeared in a context which throws no light upon its
meaning : " fac quaeras querimonium obsolevisti solacium dona-
visti etsi tu nescias." The sense is not determinable though,
with the exception of obsolevisti, the words have meaning : fac
quaeras " see that you ask (or seek)," and querimonium, false form
for querimonia, " complaint," precede the unknown word, and the
succeeding phrase means " you have given consolation though you
did not know it." On March 11, 1901, occurred, without any
explanatory context, the words obsolevit iam ista oratio " that
kind of speaking is now obsolete," and it certainly seems as if
obsolevit ista might be an expansion of the unintelligible word
obsolevisti. In that case there would be a general sense in
the first extract. " See that you search ; lamentation is out of
date ; you have unwittingly given consolation."
The next instance is clearer; on April 8, 1901, occurred the
Greek phrase /xeyaXoXXi/ro? 6 KOUTK. The last words mean " the
brother " ; the first word is apparently a " portmanteau " of
/ueya?, " great " and o\\vrai, " is destroyed." Not till nearly a
year afterwards, Feb. 10, 1902, was this portmanteau unpacked,
and its contents were certainly not what I expected. I had
taken the first phrase to be an unsuccessful attempt to describe
complete destruction, but the words of Feb. 10, 1902, were
fjie<ya\a>vvfiLOs o /cu'cri? ov$e a7r6X\VTai ra epya avrov, " of great
renown is the brother, neither do his works perish," and there
followed a description of some one whom I have not been able
to identify. It looks as if the two words /j.eyd\a>w/j.o<s and
aTTo'AAfTcu had first emerged in the impossible word /meya-
XoXXi/ro?,
It does not seem possible to determine whether in these cases
the first appearance is a confused emergence, or the second an
expansion, of the underlying idea. If it is the latter, the
incident is perhaps analogous to the development of the
56 Chapter III. [PART
narration of an incident in the script, of which there have been
frequent examples.1 On the other hand, if the unintelligible
words are in fact unsuccessful attempts to write what sub
sequently appears in a correct form and has always been
intended, the error is not one of a type confined to my
subliminal self. It has happened to me more than once to
run two words together in conversation, though not I think in
writing, and to become aware only from a certain impression that
my hearers are amused that I have been using a ' portmanteau.'
Thus I have spoken of "Jaesar" where I intended to say
"Julius Caesar."
(IV.) ASSONANCES.
In several cases there have occurred in the script juxtapositions
of words for which there seems no reason but a similarity of
sound. In some cases a pun is evidently intended, but in others
there is no apparent intention or meaning : one combination of
sounds seems to suggest another similar effect, which thereupon is
written. The actual puns are discussed in the next section ;
here I describe the assonances.
These sometimes occur in the midst of unintelligible words,
sometimes again when the meaning, though not perfectly clear, is
yet perceptible. I have found nine cases of such assonances,
some of them being very nearly actual puns. I have excluded
cases where in the effort to give a particular word several similar
sounds appear in succession, as those do not seem analogous to
the tricks of style with which I am now dealing.
The first of these assonances2 appeared on March 25, 1901,
and has already been quoted.3 The sentence in which it occurs
is perhaps intelligible, but the juxtaposition of two words so
similar in sound as neculiae and necopinato can hardly be
accidental ; Latin however lends itself to such assonances. On
the next occasion, March 31, 1901, the sound amb seems to
have been reproduced, but while the first word is appropriate
in its context the two next phrases have no meaning. After
a remark that superposition would make all clear,4 the words
1 See, for instance, the gradual development of the suggestion of a
book or paper to be found in a specified place, described on p. 195.
2 For complete list see App., p. 360. 3See p. 41. 4See p. 39.
LIII.] Other General Characteristics. 57
are written : ambages desunt ava/Salveiv necesse nee sine ambitu.
" There is no trick ; it is necessary to climb ; not without
ambition (?) " It is easier to suppose that the similarity of
sound has introduced the last two phrases than to find any
connexion between them, or with the first. On April 10,
1901, a similar attempt to combine Greek and Latin words of
like sound resulted in absolute nonsense.1
The words on April 22, 1901, £rjT« Zyra prodest, " Seek, Z
is useful " may have a glimmer of sense ; they come just after
my husband's initials, and at this time, unknown to me, he
wanted my script to reproduce some words.
On June 30, 1901, in a piece of writing far more intelligible
than those just described the syllable del seems responsible for
the words Si]\irrrjpiov SS\TOV a§e\<pos Se\<f>iKfl which followed
one another, but when the fourth word was reached it was made
the beginning of an intelligible sentence, though whether this
was the original intention of the writer we may take leave to
doubt. The sentence §e\<piKn a/aipy ^pija-erai means " he will
use the voice of the oracle " and is appropriately followed by the
injunction to " apply intelligence " ingenium adhibe?
A reminiscence of the preceding sound again probably accounts
for the words " has long ago agone," which are found on Sept. 4,
1901. There is perhaps more intelligence shown on Sept. 12,
when, the intention being, as I believe, to add the Greek letter
TT, p, (pronounced pi) to guesses already made,3 what was actually
written was as follows: " Thibet looks like a word, a tie between
Pye gives one clue, but there is another." There is, I
think, little doubt that Thibet and tie between are connected,
and they may be unsuccessful shots at the sound Pi.
The next case, which should perhaps be classified as a
deliberate pun, also came when an attempt was being made
to give a word. On Jan. 4, 1902, the script has:
Tell Hodgson the words in gen. that is nearly right yewr]a-is is
important not Genesis—and not Exodus but e£ySos—Perhaps he
will understand that you will not.
The last remark if addressed to me was certainly justified ; I did
not understand. Nor do I think that there is any explanation
1('Belua /&AOS ebanuit." 2See also below, p. 288.
3 See p. 156 for the full account of this incident.
58 Chapter III. [PART
of the extract except that the Greek yevv^erig, " engendering,"
suggested the much commoner word for "creation," yevecris,
Genesis, which in its turn led on to the second book of the Old
Testament. By a reversal of the previous performance this is
made into e^uiSos, an unknown word—an impossibility which
may have been perceived, and so saved us from the rest of the
books of the Old Testament. It is conceivable that there was a
point in the " words in gen," that the idea to be conveyed by
them was, for example, the idea of " generation " or birth. Dr.
Hodgson, on hearing of the attempt, wrote that they had a
possible relevance 1 to him. But whether that be so or not,
the incident illustrates the tendency on the part of the script
to produce assonances, without any further intention, as far
as can be seen, than that of reproducing a sound that has
occurred already.
That the association of ideas in the region reached by the
script is not that of the normal personality is further illus
trated by the last of this group of assonances. The incident
needs some preliminary explanation. In April 1902 I had a
letter from Dr. Hodgson, in which he suggested an experiment
for me to try in connexion with his sittings with Mrs. Piper.
There had been some reason to think that there was a con
nexion between her trance-writings and my automatic script,2
and with a view to testing this Dr. Hodgson proposed that I
should look some morning at a noticeable group of flowers
and try to get them mentioned to him in Mrs. Piper's trance.
There was a noticeable group in the room where I read his
letter, daffodils and bay leaves, a combination never seen by
me before, and I selected these. While I was looking at
them and thinking over the experiment, the phrase spissa
comam came into my head, " close-leaved," probably suggested
by the two Horatian phrases, spissa ramis laurea (Odes, n.
15. 9), and spissa te nitidum coma3 (Odes, in. 19. 25). That
was on April 11, and on April 24 my script, after referring
to Dr. Hodgson's experiment, wrote :
It is hard to do. Try again next week. Wordsworth's daffodils
!See p. 282. 2See p. 213.
3 The phrase spissa comam though recalling these two Horatian
phrases conveys a new idea; Horace speaks of "thick boughed
laurel" and of a person whose "thick hair shines."
LIU.] Other General Characteristics. 59
he can get but not the spissa comam—perhaps Daphne may help—
the likeness of the words—think of that.
Clearly this refers to the subject of this experiment, and is
an attempt to make a word which will suggest the two
flowers,—a ' portmanteau ' in fact. Daphne, as the classical
reader will remember, will well stand for the bay, and the
sound of the first syllable is the same as in daffodils. The
suggestion is extremely fanciful, and not in the least likely to
occur to my conscious mind, but apparently the methods of the
subliminal self are not those of the supraliminal. ' Wordsworth's
daffodils ' would have seemed to me a complicated way of
thinking of the flower which was the subject of the experi
ment, but I suppose that it is after all arrived at by a
process similar to that which brought Horace's lines to my
conscious mind when I looked at the leaves of the bay. It
would however certainly never have occurred to me to seek
a single word to represent the two flowers, nor to combine
them by symbolism and assonance in " Daphne." The incident
is perhaps of some interest as showing the extremely far-fetched
nature of associations in the region of my subliminal self, the
part played by assonance, and the suggestion that a fanciful
representation is easier to transfer to another subliminal
intelligence than is a simple concrete notion.
(V.) PUNS.
Here is another point in which toy subliminal and supra
liminal selves differ. I have hardly ever made a pun in my
life ; I do not easily see analogies between words, and I am
seldom amused by comic puns or interested by the ancient
oracular play upon words. But it is otherwise with the
automatic script. It is fond of punning and especially of
punning upon names ; it is indeed quite like an ancient
oracle in its desire to find a meaning in a name, as well as
in its complete disregard for the laws of philology. Puns
are scattered throughout the writings and are by no means
more common in the earlier than in the later script, though
the less serious examples are perhaps in the first productions.
The first pun ! appeared very soon after the writing began.
1 A complete list is given in the App., p. 361.
60 Chapter III. [PART
On March 14, 1901, in an unintelligible passage apparently
concerned with an inscription, occur the words : " hiero-
glyphema sane marmario glyptato non sine caelato quid dicam
stellate cultellario." Little can be said of this incompre
hensible medley except that it clearly contains a pun on the
two meanings of the Latin word caelum, " chisel " and
" heaven " ; the first meaning was apparently intended, then
the second meaning seems to occur to the scribe 1 and produces
the allusion to the " starry " knife, or whatever he may please
to mean by cultellario. The play upon the word is marked
by the regular classical phrase, quid dicam ? " may I say ? ".
The same word caelare furnishes another shocking pun on
April 22, 1901, when the proverbial remark about the art
required to conceal art, Ars est celare artem, is at once followed
by the quasi-correction " better to carve," caelare melius. The
scribe adds the comment " you write nicely, though there is
a lack of sense owing to your want of faith," and it is
difficult to resist the conclusion that this commendation,
qualified though it be, is due to satisfaction at having worked
off another pun.
On June 3, 1901, the mention of scriptura in the sense of
writing at once brings in vectigal? though taxation has no
place in the context. A few days later comes the first pun
on a name; on July 23, 1901, describing the arrival of some
visitor to England,3 the script said : " To Lodge he goes first
to lodge." The next attempt, on Aug. 10, 1901, was more
ingenious ; to see the pun requires a knowledge of the Greek
name (electron) of amber, mentioned only in English in the
script, but lest the casual reader should miss the point the
important word is written in a larger hand :
Amber and verdigris and the result electrifies the world.
Try another amalgam quite as hard to mix—and you will fiiid the
truth.
Needless to say no other amalgam has been tried, nor has
any amalgam of amber and verdigris been discovered !
1 Here and elsewhere I use the word " scribe " to denote that
which produces the automatic script as distinguished from my
normal personality.
2 Scriptura and vectigal are two kinds of taxes.
3 The incident is possibly veridical; see below, p. 199.
LIII.] Other General Characteristics. 61
The later plays upon words seem more serious. On Feb.
10, 1902, in a description1 of a person hitherto unidentified,
the script has : Magister sui generis ambulando dicta—non sane
obiter dicta—-promulgat. " A Master in his own line (?) he
pronounces maxims as he walks, but not obiter dicta ; "—the pun
is not translateable. The description suggests a Peripatetic
philosopher.
Two of the puns occur in passages that seem to recall Neo-
Platonic or late Greek philosophical writings and are elsewhere
discussed ; 2 the second of these passages appears to be mystic
in character, and that being so, the explanation of a technical
word by a fanciful derivation is not out of place.
On Feb. 13, 1903, occurred a pun on the two meanings
of the Latin clavis, a " key " and a " club," with an un-
mistakeable allusion to the Hercules Furens of Euripides.
A very elaborate pun on the name Christopher occurred on
Jan. 29, 1904. Two meanings are suggested, neither of them
philologically possible, but there is no allusion to the common
derivation, or to the legend which makes St. Christopher the
" Christ-bearer." The name Christopher is that of a nephew
and god-son whose birthday is on Feb. 5, seven days after
the introduction of the name in the script. The name
Christopher appears towards the end of the writing in quasi-
archaic Greek capitals, thus :
XP€T, XPICTO0OPOC, xpimov <f>iap no \prprTov <t>opd. Can't
you see the double sense 1 Do understand.
The light of the Sanctuary and the Bearer of Good.
Then comes the Greek x (Chi) as signature.
The explanations or translations given by the script are not
correct renderings of the two Greek phrases, but involve blun
ders which it needs little acquaintance with Greek to detect.
If the first is to mean " Light of the Sanctuary," the word
<fxap (thief) must be supposed equivalent to <pw, " light," and
it is a considerable strain upon the meaning of ^io-ro?,
" anointed," to make it mean Sanctuary. In the second phrase,
(f)opd could not mean " bearer " though it does mean " burden."
All these facts were perfectly well known to me ; I have no
1 See above, p. 55. 2 See p. 288.
62 Chapter III. [PART
turn for punning, no interest in derivations, no sympathy with
fanciful symbolism of any sort ; nor am I likely to confuse
either <pd>p and <£o>?, or <fropd and <popos. This is one of
many cases where there seems no point of contact between
my normal self and the productions of the scribe. I have
entered at some length into this incident, as it seemed possible
to put down in black and white the differences between the
scribe and myself, differences which are constantly obvious
to me, though not easy to explain to a reader.
Plays on the names of two sisters, whose death was due to
the same accident, occur in one of several writings referring to
them. The names are Monica and Dorothy, and on Oct. 12,
1904, etymological allusions were made: "God's gift resumed;
Monica who lived alone." Dorothy, of course, does mean the
gift of God, but, whatever may be the derivation of Monica,
it is not likely to be /uovouco? or /UOCO/K^TO?, " who lives alone."
(VI.) VEKSE.
Another characteristic of the script not shared by my
normal self is a tendency to break out into verse. I am no
poet, and have great difficulty in producing even a very short
set of verses in English. I wrote Greek iambics years ago,
but have hardly ever made up a line of Latin verse.1 That
I am capable, however, of producing some kind of verse, when
in a condition between sleeping and waking, I discovered some
years ago, when, being convalescent and resting a good deal
in the day, I used occasionally to find myself making up verse
half unconsciously. The verse was always in the nature of a
parody, and was usually, if not always, unrhymed.2 Several
fragments of verse have occurred spontaneously in the auto
matic script in each of the three languages used, and on two
or three occasions, when I have been experimenting with
another writer at a distance, verses of some length have been
produced.3 There seems an increasing tendency to produce
1 See above, p. 33. 2I have given specimens in App., pp. 361-2.
3 The writing which resulted when direct experiments were made
to obtain results simultaneously with another automatic writer falls
outside the scope of this paper, but the " poetry " produced under
LIU.] Other General Characteristics. 63
English verse. The first long passage was obtained in July,
1904, and a considerable quantity has been written since the
close of the period discussed in this paper.
Greek Verse.
The first piece of verse which occurred in the script was
in Greek, after some writing in Latin (April 14, 1901);
it was written in uncials and is reproduced in the Appendix.1
The reader will note the full stop after the 12th letter and
will, perhaps, be as puzzled by it as I was ; he may also be
surprised to find this obscure fragment classed as verse—or as
anything else !—if, as I did, he reads it as " EUUSINEMATAB.
OPHMA." But if he will reverse the order of the four (Greek)
letters after the full stop, and so make the last word Ampho
instead of the unintelligible Ophma, he will see, as my hus
band did, that the apparently meaningless collection of letters
can be divided into Greek words, and that these words form
the end of a hexameter line : fv vcrl vrj/j.a.T ap' afufxa.2 There
is no meaning, but that the words are real Greek words and
form part of a hexameter is obvious.
In the Greek words quoted and commented on above
(May 16, 1902),3 there also appears to be a rough hexameter,
contained in the words afi/3poorly re vv£ e-rri ap/mari <pona.
The last four of these make the end of a hexameter. If, for
the word TS, a long monosyllable were substituted, we should
have nearly a complete verse. Perhaps that was recognised by
the scribe, for to the words is appended the criticism : " no a
word wrong—somewhere. Put it right. ask him
which."
On July 3, 1903, more attempts were made to produce
Greek hexameters. I quote the whole passage, which, as will
be seen, becomes more and more like verse as it goes on,
winding up with a complete line. We were staying at the
time of its production at a hotel high up on the Rigi in
these circumstances is given in the Appendix to this section (p. 362)
to illustrate the kind of thing obtained.
1 See App., p. 365. 2 Or fv vcrlv 1'jfiar' ap' a/J.<f><a.
3 See p. 43.
64 Chapter III. [PART
Switzerland, and the surroundings are apparently reflected in
the script.1
For her a message of peace —contemplation on high summits
—stillness in the air.
Trpos oSSag 0«<3v noctivaga ilia € Eelene2 dpfiarl apyvpoevrl TreX«
<TV S' OVK eirivoiy. -^pia/j.^ you have not all the words—TroAAa T'
a«AAa is part KOI \ai\a-rri Kaprepoiavri SeSdif/erai ovpavos aAAos. No
you confuse—the storm & whirlwind consume the blue clear space
between the worlds, but the supernal peace is undisturbed.*
The other four specimens 3 of Greek verse are attempts at
iambics, a metre which I used to write freely some years
back. They present few, if any, points of interest. In two
cases where more than one line is given the scribe appears
to be aware that he has not been very successful, as the
verses are followed by the comments, "it is not quite right.
But you have the idea, it is hard to catch" (Aug. 8, 1903),
and again (May 26, 1904) non bene omnia—etsi quaedam. "It
is not all right though some of it is." Three times a
Greek iambic line seems to have been employed, not for its
own sake, but to convey to me a remark. These are among
the rare occasions on which Greek has been used as the
medium (of communication between the scribe and myself.
Latin Verse.
The Latin verse is much more fragmentary ; scattered about
among phrases entirely irrelevant are a few scraps with
hexameter rhythm, such as eras meliora supersunt (Jan. 13,
1902), which for excellent reasons I do not translate; monet
ne dixeris omni quod tibi confitear soli, " He warns you not to
* Trans. " To the thresholds of the gods the night-wandering
moon on her silvered car goes (?). But you not using intelligence
. . . and often a storm . . . and by the whirlwind in its might (1)
the rest of the heaven will be devoured."
1 See above, p. 44.
2 For Eelene read Selene, the E (€) being sometimes used in the
script for 2; the breathings on the next two words should be
transposed, apparl dpyvpoevrl; the form Kaprepoiavrl seems to have
been invented for "metrical purposes"; the next word 8eSdi//frai
is not classical.
3 See App., p. 365.
Other General Characteristics. 65
tell every one what I am admitting to you only " (Oct. 6,
1901). The first few words of this last sentiment are in
a larger hand, intended, I suppose, to prevent my overlooking
the poetical outburst. Magno contendis corpore contra looks like
a fragment of genuine Latin poetry, but I have not been able
to trace it (Nov. 3, 1902). The first part of the writing of
March 1, 1903, consisted of scraps of hexameter lines, the
sort of rubbish that one might produce when half asleep ; no
line is complete, there is no consecutive sense, and no general
meaning. On July 15, 1904, the script tried its hand
with extremely poor success at Latin Sapphics ; there is a
discernible meaning in these, but no other interest. The
curious reader will find all these efforts reproduced in the
Appendix.1
English- Verse.
English verse was not introduced so early as Latin or
Greek. The first appeared on Feb. 23, 1903, when I was
sitting at the same time as two other friends in another place
who were working Planchette.2 My script, after dealing with
other matters, concluded with the following lines:
Lover who lives to learn—
Giver the gift to earn,
Wisdom the love to feel,
Friendship the bond to seal.
On April 9, 1903, again at the end of writing on a quite
irrelevant topic, the script wound up with a verse :
and daisies pied upon the green
and the cuckoo's foot between
Merrify Merrily
Call it early call it often
Woods to bloom and buds to soften
Happily happily.
Another attempt at verse (Jan. 17, 1904) was of a
different type ; it is less complete and more conscious,
recognising its intention and its want of success. After
saying something about Hope, the script goes on :
!See App., p. 366. 2See p. 250.
E
66 Chapter III. [PART
.Hope—youngest daughter of to-day, and oldest mother of the race
To see the Godhead face to face, no
Beholds the Godhead's very face . Shine at the on the
Wanderer on the Way—That is not quite right, but it is about
Hope's vision which is the true one and leads on the Passion
ate Pilgrim.
None of this recalls anything to me, or - has any meaning ;
I do not see what the " Passionate Pilgrim " is doing here, nor
whether he is to be identified with the " Wanderer." !
Some stumbling blank verse, again on the subject of hope, was
produced on- May 26, 1904. On September 18th, 1904, a
more serious attempt was made to produce verse, but, as the
script itself recognised, it was " poor stuff." I quote the whole
passage as it illustrates the methods of the scribe. It will be
seen that the first two stanzas are written consecutively as if
they were prose. The third stanza is recognised to be verse,
but it is incomplete, a dissyllable being wanted to complete
the rhythm ia the first line. The meaning of the lacking word
is suggested by the script itself and after a further effort a
criticism on the whole production is pronounced.
for many a month the hand of time has shewn to all
that pass this sign and this alone yet have the careless
generations failed to read . so blindly lurks the flower with
in the seed .
The riotous colours of the autumn flames have touched the
bracken, turning green to gold, the wandering songsters going as
they came by the long journey flee the winters cold.
So each successive
there is a word that means a group
in its turn
fills with its dust the cinerary urn
urn behind urn in numberless array
the records of past glories still decay
But none of this says what I want to say—write this week more
often and especially OH Wednesday morning next—-not such poor
stuff as this.
Plain Prose is best.
1 But see below, p. 297, for a possible explanation of the association
of ideas in the above.
Liu.] Varieties of Dramatic Form. 67
CHAPTER IV.
VARIETIES OF DRAMATIC FORM ASSUMED BY THE SCRIPT.
So far the topics discussed have concerned the form adopted
by the script rather than the nature of its contents, though
in the last few groups there is reason to suppose intention in
the selection of the particular form, or at least recognition
on the part of the scribe of the form adopted. I pass to
the contents, . taking first the cases where these are, so to
say, expressed by the form, and afterwards other cases where
the form appears to be of no importance.
There are two main groups where the form seems intended
to convey some meaning. The mass of the writing consists
of unsigned observations, not to be attributed to any identifiable
person, though often expressed in the first person " I," and
addressed to some one in the second person " you," presumably
myself.1 But two other types occur—one where the script seems
to represent a conversation between two or more persons,
and another where a directly personal note is introduced
by the appending of a signature to the supposed communi
cation. It is not easy always to distinguish these classes,
as the reader who has followed me so far will understand,
seeing how dream-like and confused are the utterances of the
script. In many cases, although there is no signature to the
communication, the writing bears witness in its contents to
its being ostensibly addressed to me by various identifiable
persons. Again, it is clearly not possible to determine with
certainty, in the absence of change of language or writing,
whether the observations of the script are supposed to be
!This person "I" is what I have called "the scribe," and I wish
here to emphasise the statement that the scribe is not an indirect
way of alluding to a particular supposed communicator, but a general
name for the writing hand, which—for whatever reason—assumes a
dramatic personality.
68 Chapter IV. [PART
made by more than one communicator, though there are
several cases where the contents clearly show that a message
purports to come from more than one source. But in spite
of the difficulties of classification it has seemed helpful in
judging the whole question of the automatic phenomena, to
discuss here the above, mentioned two classes—namely, what
I may call " conversations," and the type where an actual
signature is appended to the communication.
(I.) CONVERSATIONS.
The first hint that more than one person must be sup
posed to be having a say is found on March 30, 1901,
though I did not interpret it till long afterwards, when the
conversational form had unmistakeably appeared.1 The writ
ing on that date2 begins with the remark that there are
as many opinions as there are speakers. A few days later,
April 3, 1901, the first unmistakeable conversation appears, the
remarks of the second speaker being written in a large round
hand sharply distinguished from the particularly small hand
writing of the body of this piece of script. The contents
are of no interest ; their meaning is perhaps clearer or rather
less obscure than was usually the case at this early period,
but nothing of any value was said. The person addressed as
" you " would seem, at least in one instance here, not to be
myself, but some one else who answers in the first person.
When reproached with not doing something, this person replies
that he has done it, Feci, whereas I 3 had not done anything.
1The reader must understand that most of the opinions about
the script expressed in this paper are the result of long observa
tion and familiarity; in many cases later writings have thrown
light upon the earlier productions; at the beginning the phenomena
seemed unanalysable, and I avoided as far as possible forming any
theory about them.
2 See Appendix, p. 366, for list of all these supposed conversations.
3 Perhaps the reproaches for stupidity and inattention described
below (p. 89) may in some cases not be addressed to me, but to
some other would-be communicator or intermediary; it is probable
in any case, however, that they reflect my own feeling of impatience
at the extreme difficulty of seeing any sense in the farrago freely
produced with an exasperating air of superior knowledge.
Liu.] Varieties of Dramatic Form. 69
I do not class as conversations the considerable number of
cases where communications are ostensibly made by more than
one " control," in order to give a new message or to complete
or correct what was said by the first. Here I refer only
to cases of apparent confusion, where—to use a familiar illus
tration—the telephone-wires seem to have got into contact,
so that the operator hears remarks not addressed directly to
him. Thus on Jan. 13, 1902, the script has:
Patience for you both. it will come Three Latin words
can she not write them 1 would give the clue. quid fremuerunt
gentesl gentes seems right—gens togata rapit— Non
possum plurima hodie cras meri meliora supersunt. C r a s
meliora supersunt.
I do not profess to explain this, but I think that it is a
case such as I have described. The words " can she not
write them ? " break into the midst of the phrase, " Three
Latin words would give the clue," and suggest that they were
unintentionally recorded—just as the telephone occasionally
records the impatient observations of the young woman at
the Central Office. Who is meant by " you " and " she " I
cannot say, but the words " gentes seems right " appear to be
a criticism on the three preceding words, which, if they are
intended for a quotation, should read " Quare fremuerunt
gentes." Again, the repetition of the three final words sug
gest that when they first appeared they were not said to
me, but addressed by one communicator to another, who then
transmitted to me what seemed important, unaware that the
whole had already been caught and recorded.
Similarly on Aug. 7, 1901, after a long message meant
apparently to be verifiable, came the words :
This is something new—perhaps a test—I dont understand
quite. Who is it ?
Then follows abruptly an allusion to a wholly different
incident. In this case it seems to be recognised that there
is confusion, and the words " I don't understand " are perhaps
unintentionally recorded. The confusion is greater on Feb.
13, 1902, and there partly marked by a change in the
writing. On Oct. 23, 1903, after confusion, some attempt
70 Chapter IV. [PART
is made to remedy it, with success as far as the fluency of the
writing is concerned, though the meaning of the message thus
produced is not obvious. The early part of this script was
produced, as noted at the time, with great difficulty ; the
words " faith fled, Hope stayed " refer to an earlier piece of
writing ; then the script has : " when did that happen ?—no
this is not right. Stop it is too difficult—let her write."
Then with the new paragraph the writing came quite easily.
In the above case again it cannot be determined whether
the " she " refers to myself or to some supposed communicator
temporarily displaced,1 but on Jan. 15, 1903, I was undoubtedly
referred to in the third person ;
Wait for the word. He said "I2 will send the half message to
Mrs. Verrall and you have the other half. Tell Hodgson this, but
you have not got the word yet.
Then came further unsuccessful attempts to produce a recog
nisable word.
On November 25th, 1904, there appears to be another
instance where a sentence in the script represents a remark
about me in the midst of other remarks addressed to me. Thus
after saying, apparently to me, "Why will you not look for
it." the script goes on :
Tell them that.
Long have they waited we do not know why—but can do no
more. Don't touch her—let her work alone, the touch
confuses.
It is probable that the " you " who will not look refers to
me, and almost certain that I am intended also by the " her "
who is not to be touched.
There are two or three other cases where reference is made
in the third person to some one, probably another supposed
communicator, but it is not certain whether such reference is
intentional, nor to whom it is addressed. Thus on Aug. 16,
1901, after a long message relating entirely to the attempts
1 There is the same difficulty in the script of March 20, 1903. See
App. pp. 352, 3.
2 The inverted commas before " I " appear in the script, but there
is no mark for the end of the quotation.
mi.] Varieties of Dramatic Form. 71
to guess my husband's Greek sentence,1 addressed throughout
by " me " to " you," there comes a statement of what some
one else, a third person, says ; here the change of language may
indicate change in the communication. It runs :
A.W.V. will understand this—I think of him when I say it. you do
not know. Mone inquit alteram, ne titubet—non semper recte
fit quod rnanu incipit*
It continues in Greek and Latin and concludes with a curiously
confused signature.
Again, on Oct. 6, 1901, after describing an incident in
English, the script suddenly breaks into Latin, and in a
slightly larger handwriting says2 " He warns you not to tell
everyone what I am admitting to you only." Then after
confused attempts to put things for A.W.V. with greater clear
ness, and complaints that "neither you nor I know it, so it
is hard to get. It all belongs to him but not to me his
friends but not mine. No one here knows but one and her
I have not met," it goes on " I will ask Arthur " and returns
to the incident with which it started.
On March 15, 1903, we have what looks like an uninten
tional report of a discussion between two would-be com
municators :
2 is the first to be recognised but there are others. write
yourself mow Otranto pice cur non cetera 1 quia
non comprehendit ilia nostr a fac quiescat. Signum illud
pro bono, sed non omne.
The last sentence " that sign is to the good but it is not the
whole," clearly refers back to the first remark ; but between
the two come words that are only intelligible if we suppose
them to be addressed by the communicators to one another,
and assign them to different speakers, thus :
A. " Write yourself now."
B. makes futile efforts.
C. "Why not (give?) the rest?"
* Trans, "Tell the other (feminine), he says, not to stumble; what
her hand begins is not always right."
^ee p. 156. 2See above, p. 64.
7? Chapter IV. [PART
D. "Because she does not understand our (words?)"
E. " Get (some one) to be quiet. That sign &c."
In this division of the remarks between various speakers
I am guided partly by the gaps between the words—to which
experience has led me to attach considerable importance1—
and partly by the sense. I make no attempt to assign the
parts, only to mark the breaks.
Once, on Feb. 1, 1904, the earlier part of the script
appears to represent a reported conversation between two
persons, one of whom is trying to catch what the other says,
but without much success. Then with a new paragraph one
seems to assume " control " and gives a connected message ;
the next paragraph represents another person commenting on
what has preceded.2 A somewhat similar case of supplementary
statements by a second communicator is found on Dec. 4,
1902, but in that case there is no reported conversation
between the supposed communicators ; both seem to address
me directly.3
The best illustration of a conversation occurs in a piece
of writing not included in the 306 pieces which make the
subject of analysis in this paper. It was produced on December
5th, 1904, not spontaneously, but as the result of an experiment
in simultaneous writing in the presence of others. The con
versational form may have been due to suggestion from the
circumstances of its production. But it is of the same type as
other conversations spontaneously produced, though the differ
entiation of the speakers is emphasised by a change of hand
writing as well as by the use of paragraphs. The first few
sentences cannot be definitely distributed among the supposed
speakers, but in the fourth paragraph a sloping handwriting is
introduced, and thenceforth to the end of the communication
1 Amid the general confusion and difficulty of interpretation, some
things seem to stand out as important ; e.g. gaps between words and
new paragraphs,—not that such a break invariably has an ascertain-
able meaning, but it seems best to assume, in the absence of strong
evidence to the contrary, that it indicates some sort of change in
whatever it is that produces the script.
2 See below, p. 211, for comment on the script of Feb. 1, 1904.
3 This script possesses no interest, and, not being counted as a,
conversation, is not. quoted in the Appendix.
Lin.] Varieties of Dramatic Form. 73
the sloped writing alternates with my ordinary hand and
represents one speaker in a dialogue, the parts of which are
plainly distinguishable. Thus, beginning with the paragraph
where the hand changes, and representing the sloping writing
by italics, we have the following : .
Then there is a line of verse to be remembered Heaven lies about
us in our infancy—that has a special quite a special association.
repeat the line again
It has teen written down, go on to the next trial
Cecilia was a name wanted
/ cannot make this clear.
The instructions have come elsewhere, they should be followed,
then wait for the results.
/ cannot work this easily
You do not attend to the instructions
/ cannot hear what they say or understand what they do
Say it was Thursday that was meant.
It was Thursday meant.
(II.) SIGNATURES.
There are altogether 148 cases of signatures or attempts at
signature, in the 306 pieces of script here discussed; thus, less
than half the pieces are signed, for it sometimes happens that
a single piece of writing has two signatures, a second signed
paragraph being occasionally added after the first signature.
The signatures are not always the last word in the writing
where they occur, as occasionally after a signature a fresh
start is made and further remarks added, not signed. Nor
must the signature be taken in all cases as attached to the
whole of what precedes ; sometimes a • change of handwriting
or a break of some kind indicates what words are supposed
to be written by the person signing. Often it is impossible
to assign with certainty a definite portion of the script to
the ostensible writer.
In these 148 signatures I have counted all cases where a
name, or initial, or sign,1 has been appended to a statement
1 A considerable number of signs appear as signatures ; some
of these have been identified, but not all. They are described
below.
74 Chapter IV. [PART
so as to give the whole the air, generally speaking, of a letter
and not a memorandum. They may he thus classified:
Classification of Signatures.
(A) Unfinished attempts 12
(B) Unidentified :
(1) names, proper, - - - - 5
(2) fancy names, 5
(3) initials, ----- 5
(4) signs, - - - - 29
Total, 44
(C) Unintelligible, 9
(D) Identified:
(1) name of living, 1
(2) names of dead,1 - - - 48
(3) signs for dead, 34
Total, 83
Total, therefore, in all, - - 148
(A) Unfinished attempts.
Some of these have been discussed above 2 ; they are included
here among signatures, as they distinctly give the writing a
personal note. They are of the following type :
1. Vale .... signifer signum ponit.
2. Usque ad illud vale.
Tuus.
3. Tuus iam ante signator. *
4. Yours as you know.
5. not your friend but another.
This indefinite form of signature was commoner in the earlier
than in the later writings. Thus of the twelve instances ten
occur in the first two years of the writing. It would appear
*1. Trans. "Good-bye—the seal-bearer sets his seal." 2. "Till
then good-bye—Yours." 3. "Yours—who has signed before this."
1 Initials and suggestions of name are included under names.
2 See above, p. 29.
Liu.] Varieties of Dramatic Form, 75
that on the whole, this signature is used when the contents
of the script are of some interest or evidential value.
Thus, in eight out of ten cases, decided success attended the
efforts to produce evidential matter made by this supposed
writer who, it should be noted, though he does not append his
name, seems—to judge from the manner of his writing—to
have assumed that he would be recognised. But in the absence
of a direct statement as to who was intended by the person
signing " yours," etc., it has seemed better to regard these
signatures as unfinished attempts and not as identified
signatures.
(£) Unidentified signatures.
(1) Proper names:
Of 5 unidentified names used as signatures three are in
handwritings not my own ; R. Nevile and his story have been
described.1 "Mortimer Gothard, 1703" or some such person
appears as a signature only on Feb. 9, 1904; and on Oct.
29, 1901, Alec-K signed some remarks apparently intended
to be evidential, but so far unverified. This communicator
re-appeared twice; thus on Nov. 1, 1901, "Alec can try again
later," and on Nov. 4, 1901, "Frodsham and a river in the
winter it was frozen Alec Keith to the friend of another."
K. has developed into Keith, and the place originally described
as " Frendsham or Frettisham perhaps Frodsham " has remained
Frodsham, but no enquiries have thrown any light on this
episode. One unidentified name, Eloise, appears only as a
signature, and conveys nothing to me (Oct. 31, 1902); another,
in an early script, also has no meaning, but is here described in
detail as possibly illustrating the gradual emergence of an idea
not at first recognisable.2 The script of June 27, 1901, was
signed as follows :
Two drawings of curved objects ; then the words, " or a
gourd." Then three drawings representing apparently (1) a
gourd, (2) a cross,3 (3) the horns or ears of an animal ; then the
words " moses not the prophet." ; then a line between two
brackets and the name "Johann."
'See p. 24.
2 See also above, p. 55, on " portmanteau " phrases.
3 This cross is counted as a drawing, not as a signature.
76 Chapter IV. [PART
It seems as if there were a definite aim behind all these
efforts ; possibly even the final effort is not completely correct,
and what underlies it all is " Jonah " not " John," three
attempts being made to suggest the name Jonah; (1) the
gourd, (2) the prophet, (3) the name Johann. If this is so, it
will be seen that the second of these two notions, the prophet,
does not itself emerge at once, but is preceded by " horns "
and then " Moses." This suggested explanation fails to account
for the cross, but as it possibly throws light on the methods
of the script, or on what appear to me to be its methods, I
have thought this digression justified. Another suggestion has
been made to me that in the Latin cross,1 taken in conjunction
with " horns " and " Moses not the -prophet," are to be found
allusions to W. Stainton Moses and his well-known " control "
Imperator. In that case there seems no explanation for the
gourd, or the name John.
(B 2) Fancy names.
(£3) Initials.
The unidentified fancy names and initials present no points
of interest.
(54) Signs.
Eighteen2 of the twenty-nine unidentified signs represent some
form of cross ; I had proposed to class these all together, but
as on a closer examination there seems to be some distinction
between the value of the writing signed by different kinds
of crosses,3 I have subdivided the class. The types of cross
used are three, "j~ X + ; of these -j~ is used twice, x five
times, + eight times, while once x and + are combined,
and once all three forms appear together.
Latin Cross.
This cross appears on two consecutive days, Aug. 25 and 26,
1902, the first time alone with the word cross written beside
!See below, p. 79.
2 Or possibly 17, if an ill-executed drawing, resembling a Latin
cross upside down, or a Greek cross with too long an upper arm,
is not interpreted as a cross. It occurred on Oct. 26, 1901, shortly
after the word \apis; it is not classified in the text.
3 For remarks on the possible significance of these cases, see below,
p. 79.
tin.] Varieties of Dramatic Form. 77
it -,1 on the next day the word cross is in the body of the
script, and the script is signed by three characters, a capital
I within a circle, a Latin cross, and a fish. Neither piece of
writing contains anything of interest; the second is particularly
scrappy.
St. Andrew's Cross.
This appears as a signature five times on May 27, 1901,
on October 21 and 25, 1902; on January 21, 1903; and
on Jan. 29, 1904, but on none of these days was anything
written which seems to show supernormal knowledge. On the
first four occasions, matter was produced which purported to
be verifiable, but there is little or no reason to attach value
to the statements.2 The last occasion on which the transverse
cross is used is immediately below the unwarranted philological
statements about the name Christopher described above.3
Greek Cross.
The Greek cross + is used eight * times as a signature,
five times plain, twice enclosed in a circle, and once with
a decoration at the intersection of the arms. Once also it
is used in combination with the transverse cross, and as the
combination occurs on Jan. 31, 1902, after three preceding
scripts signed with the Greek cross I shall consider that case
together with these, so making altogether 9 occasions where
the Greek cross is used.
On six of these nine occasions reference is made in the
accompanying script either to Dr. Hodgson or to Mrs. Piper,
and on the other three matter of interest is given—twice (Oct.
12, 1901, Dec. 7, 1903) instances of apparent thought-trans
ference from friends,5 and on May 31, 1901, the first reference
1 See App. p. 355, where the script is given.
2 See p. 284 for detailed account of statements by the script on
May 27, 1901.
3 See p. 61.
4 Or nine times, if the ill-executed drawing of Oct. 26, 1901, is
counted as a Greek cross.
5 See pp. 283, 285.
78 Chapter IV. [PART
to the passage from Plato's Symposium which plays so large
a part in the script.1 On four consecutive occasions reference
was made to Dr. Hodgson or Mrs. Piper in writing signed
with the Greek cross, one of these being apparently a
successful attempt to establish a connexion between my,writing
and Mrs. Piper's trance.2 I had been interrupted in this
writing, and, after a persistent desire to write, which circum
stances prevented me from obeying, produced at the first
opportunity a few hours later on the same day the words :
Crux et praeterea nihil " only a cross," and, after some
general remarks in Latin, the following signature consisting of
a Greek and a transverse cross each enclosed in a circle and
joined together by two lines :
On April 27, 1903, the script produced evidential matter
for " Hodgson," subsequently verified by him, and the signature
was a Greek cross. Finally, the script of July 21, 1903,
produced further evidential matter, and after a first signature
" E.G," followed the words : " Rector fecit per
interpretationem posuit signum suum ipse " ;
then a decorated equilateral cross ; then the
words " again better " ; then a better drawing of
the same cross,3 reproduced here in facsimile.
I think it -will be acknowledged that the
" signator " who represents himself by means of the Greek cross
is one of the most efficient of the so-called "communicators."
The three crosses appear together as a signature to a writing
on July 18, 1904. The earlier part of this script refers to
the supposed contents of a sealed envelope left by Mr.
!See p. 310. 2See p. 213.
3 The meaning of the Latin is not clear : " Rector (or The director)
has done it by explanation (?) ; he himself has set his seal." Mr.
Piddington suggests as a possible meaning for ' per interpretationem,'
'by using some one to act as interpreter for him.'
Liu.] Varieties of Dramatic Form. 79
Myers, but the words referring to the envelope, though
appeariug to confirm those of July 13, 1904, do not, as those
do, say that the envelope in question belongs to Sir Oliver
Lodge ; they may indeed be regarded as a correction of what
was clearly—but, as it turned out, erroneously—stated earlier
in the month.1 But however that may be, there is no doubt
that the latter part of the script, in a larger and rounder
hand than my own, and signed as above stated with the three
crosses reproduced below, refers plainly to an attempt of
July 3, 1904, to work off the verification of a prophecy
" after mid September next," 2 and then concludes : " do
you know who says this ? not Myers, not any you know—
it is not his function but ours." It would thus appear that the
crosses stand for some supposed communicators unknown to me,
but there is no further indication of the persons whom they
represent, and the mysterious decorations which accompany
them on this occasion throw no light on the problem.
It was pointed out to me by Miss Johnson, when she read
the above account of the crosses appearing in the script as
signatures, that the Latin and Greek crosses are used respec
tively by two " controls " of Mr. W. Stainton Moses, whom he
'The words of July 18, 1904, are: "let the trial be made as they
desire—this is clear that the passage from the Symp. wh. you have
found as- I told you in the book is in an envelope sealed by me.
I shld like Hodgson to know this but it is not in his envelope.
I wrote the words some time before the book was ready—pps the
test is not very good, but it shld help." The passage from the
Symposium was not contained, as the script of July 13, 1904, had
positively affirmed, in the envelope left by Mr. Myers for experimental
purposes with Sir Oliver Lodge and opened in December, 190.4. The
incident is described below on pp. 299-301, 318.
2 See p. 327.
80 Chapter IV. [PART
calls Imperator and Rector. Facsimiles of the signatures of
Imperator and Rector are given in Proc. S.P.R. Vols. IX. pp.
283, 294; XL 41. I am familiar with the report in the
Proceedings of the phenomena of Stainton Moses, and was
aware that a cross was used in the signature of several of his
" controls." But I had certainly never consciously distinguished
between the use of the Latin and Greek cross, though the
distinction is plainly observed, as any one may see who looks
at the facsimiles in the Proceedings.
When my script on July 21, 1903, stated plainly that a
certain cross—here described as a decorative Greek cross—was
the mark of Rector, I sent a copy to Dr. Hodgson and asked
whether such a drawing had appeared in any writing during
Mrs. Piper's sittings, where much of the automatic script is
ostensibly the work of Rector. But Dr. Hodgson had no
recollection of any such drawing. I therefore supposed the
conjunction of Rector's name and a cross to be a reminiscence
of my knowledge of the Stainton Moses phenomena. So I
still take it to be, but the reminiscence is at once more
accurate and less mechanical than I had supposed it. The
cross of Rector in my script is no exact reproduction of
Rector's cross as shown in the Proceedings, but while putting
on a decoration it retains the characteristic of the Greek cross
with equal branches, always associated with the Rector of
Mr. Stainton Moses.
That the distinction between the Latin cross of Imperator
and the Greek cross of Rector—not consciously observed by
me—was recognised by my subliminal self is clear, not only
from the statement that the decorative Greek cross is the sign
of Eector (July 21, 1903, posuit signum suum ipse), but also
from the conjunction in the script of August 26, 1902, of the
Latin cross with the capital I, which obviously stands for
Imperator. I had noticed the Christian symbolism in the cross
and fish, but was puzzled to account for the capital I.
The published accounts of the Stainton Moses phenomena
thus explain the appearance in my script of the Latin and
Greek crosses. But I have so far found no explanation of
the St. Andrew's or transverse cross. This does not appear
to have been used by the " controls " of Mr. W. Stainton
Moses.
tin.] Varieties of Dramatic Form. 81
Other Signs.
Of other signs used nine occur singly and call for no com
ment ; they are of various sorts, geometrical patterns, mere
scribbles, a flower, three anchors ; a palm appears three times,
in each case with a sword. The sword appears to have been
identified.1 But no identification has been attempted for the
palm, which is so ill drawn that I might have hesitated what
name to give it but for the kind suggestion of the script,
which wrote beneath the first appearance of these two objects,
on Aug. 6, 1901, "the sword and the palm."
I have classed as a signature a star, which terminated one
piece of writing, as it appears in the usual place for a sig
nature, but I am disposed to believe that it forms part of
the body of the script. On Sept. 7, 1901, when the script
was trying to reproduce three Greek words wanted by my
husband it ended " Banipal and Assur," then, as another shot,
" Asta aster," and a rough drawing of a star. If this star is
not counted as a signature, eight cases remain of miscellaneous
signatures, only two of which follow script containing any
thing of. possible interest ; the other six are appended to some
of the most worthless of the writings.
(C) Unintelligible signatures.
Of these there are in all nine ; two of them belong to the
first two months of the script, when the greater part of what
was written was unintelligible, and the third is appended to a
wholly unintelligible writing, also quite early. The writing
preceding five others contains nothing of interest, and in three
cases is hardly intelligible ; there may be a point in the
script of Dec. 22, 1901, but not enough to make it worth
quoting.
(D) Identified Signatures.
(1) Signature of the living..
The initials of Mr. Piddington, which appeared at the end
of a communication on Sept. 6, 1902, have been counted
among signatures, though an inspection of the script suggests
that a message for him and not from him was intended. The
1 See pp. 222-4.
F
82 Chapter IV. [PART
concluding words are : " Let him have it to see. and counter
sign ; J. G. P." 1 This was written before I had arranged to
send each original at once to Sir Oliver Lodge, and as the
script contained a statement that a clue might be expected on
Sept. 17—a statement hitherto unfulfilled—it seems likely
that the production of Mr. Piddington's initials is due to an
unexpressed desire of my own that, if anything came of the-
remark about the clue that was to follow, its effect should
not be spoilt for want of due attestation of the date of the
remark.
This is the only instance of an imitation of the known
signature of a living person. An attempt to imitate the hand
writing of a living person unknown to me has been already
noted.2
(2) and (3) Signatures purporting to represent the dead.
The nature of these signatures varies greatly ; in some
cases the whole name is given, in others the initials, or a
single initial ; sometimes there is a special arrangement of
letters, a device suggesting the name, or an allusion to it.
Counting all these types, eight persons in all have been repre
sented by the script as signatories on fifty-four occasions.
A few instances in which evidential value may be claimed
for these signatures are discussed later.3 For the most part,
the supposed signatories being well known to me, no value
whatever can be attached to the mere appearance of their
names or initials. As regards the nature of the communi
cations definitely attributed in the script to specified persons,
there is not sufficient material upon which to base a
judgment. All that can be said at present is that it appears
from an analysis of the statements made and signed by various
names or symbols, that the so-called signatories have a certain
individuality, in that some of them have a special faculty for
making remarks of interest or remarks of a particular type.
Thus the owner of the Greek cross, whether we call him
Rector or not, is a specially successful communicator and seems
to have a particular interest in Mrs. Piper and Dr. Hodgson ;
the owner of the transverse cross, on the other hand, makea
efforts to produce evidential matter, but with very little
!See p. 126. 'See p. 25. "See pp. 222-4, 305-7.
LIII.] Varieties of Dramatic Form. 83
success. This individualism was not the least realised by me
at the time ; it was only when I tabulated the statements
under various signatures for the purpose of this paper (in
March and April, 1905) that I discovered that the signatories
appeared, at least in some instances, to possess distinguishing
characteristics. How far this may be due to dramatisation on
the part of my subliminal self I cannot say.
84 Chapter V. [PART
CHAPTER V.
COMMENTS IN THE SCRIPT ON THE PHENOMENA AND THE
METHOD OF PRODUCTION.
A LARGE part of the contents of the writings consist of what
may be described as personal matters,—communications, that is,
addressed by the scribe to myself, concerning the value of the
statements made, the difficulty of communication, the efforts
necessary to produce the writing, the success or failure of
particular attempts, the best conditions for improvement, and
other similar topics. These may be classified under two main
heads: (I.) statements, (II.) exhortations; and the latter fall con
veniently into two divisions, (a) general exhortations, encourage
ment or reproach ; and (&) specific directions for the conduct
of the business of communicating. For the purposes of this
section no distinction is drawn between the various writers or
listeners, such as has been attempted above ; 1 it is here
presumed that the first person ' I ' represents what I call the
scribe, and that the second person ' you ' stands for my own
normal personality.
(I.) STATEMENTS AS TO SUCCESS, FAILURE, CAPACITY, DIFFI
CULTY, ETC.
Success.
The statements as to success in transmission vary ; some
times they are perfectly general: "keep this; it will be
wanted " ; sometimes the writer congratulates himself on his
fluency or felicity of phrase, or remarks that there is " some
thing in this if you could only see it " ; on other occasions
he states definitely that he has produced this time what may
be verified. There is, I fear, little connexion between the
!See p. 68.
LIII.] Comments by Script on Phenomena. 85
satisfaction of the writer and the clearness or correctness of
the script. Thus, on March 13, 1901, in a hopelessly obscure
passage, occur the words : modo cecini carmen ineluctabile
auribus tuis, " I have just sung a song that cannot escape
your hearing," and the next day the unintelligible words :
dulcissime sonat imago clara pulsanti pedetemptin, " most sweetly
sounds the clear echo to one who dances a-foot," are followed
by the remark : quam bene fed illud ! " how well I did
that." The expressions (Nov. 7, 1901, and Jan. 8,
1902), o quam bene currit plumula saepe red.it sensus,
" how well the pen runs, the sense is repeated," and o quam
bene currit calamus paterna lingua, " how well runs the pen in
its native tongue," may refer to the greater fluency in
Latin which was certainly shown at first, rather than to
any specific success. But when the hand remarks that " this
is a clue," or that " this is verifiable," after producing some
thing quite vague or hopelessly confused, we can only express
a pious hope that the future may justify the writer's claim.
Only on three of the eleven occasions when success was
claimed in this way was the claim justified (June 23, 1901,
Sept. 18, 1901, and Oct. 9, 1902), though on three others
there may have been a measure of success.1 I do not wish
to give the impression that the script is never to be trusted
when it makes a statement about itself; on the contrary, in
some cases considerable value attaches to its own impres
sions. But a general remark of the kind here described seems
valueless.
Failure.
The statements as to failure are, generally speaking, of two
types : (1) a general expression of inability, or (2) a specific
complaint that a particular fact or word has not been cor
rectly written down : probably more value attaches to the
second than to the first of these two classes. It seems natural
enough that my own constantly present sense of the futility
of much of the writing should find expression in the script,
and perhaps the desire for success occasionally represented
1 See App., p. 368, where are given all statements, correct or
incorrect, as to success, with references to the parts of this paper
where such statements are discussed.
86 Chapter V. [PART
side by side with the knowledge of failure also represents
a normal feeling. The three strongest expressions of this
frustrated wish are in Latin, and in each case the failure is
recognised as being on the part of the scribe (March 6,
1901, July 8, 1901, and Feb. 2, 1904). Many of the
failures are attributed to the stupidity of the recipient, and
are classified under the head of ' reproaches.' In the greater
number of the statements of failure, whether general or par
ticular, no definite cause is assigned. Once " the light is dim,"
two or three times "it is not clear," more often the script
says simply, " I cannot do it," sometimes adding " to-day "
with a word of encouragement for " to-morrow." Once in the
middle of some hopeless stuff, it seemed to recognise its own
folly and exclaimed in Latin, that being then its normal
language, o stultiloquor ! " what folly I talk ! "
In some cases where an effort is made to give a name
or a word for identification, the statement is more definite ;
thus on April 20, 1901, after a signature, comes a remark
that some one has not put what he wanted, and that a certain
alteration is to be made ; once it is said that there is " a
word wrong " ; 1 two or three times something is said to be
" more like," though not yet right.
But in general there is little value in these statements
of failure ; when the script is definitely correcting an earlier
antecedent error, it goes straight to the problem before it
and omits all introductory observations ; the greater number
of these admissions of failure occur in pieces of writing which
are obviously confused or incomplete. They are scattered
throughout the writing, but are rather more frequent at the
beginning; they are not very numerous, amounting to some
thing like a total of 25.
Capacity.
The expression of capacity or effort to communicate, unac
companied by a claim to success, is almost confined to the
writings of the first nine months, but is there fairly frequent,
occurring some 14 times in 90 pieces. Three of the occa
sions when a sense of greater ease was expressed were during
the attempts to reproduce a sentence thought of by my
1 See p. 63.
Comments by Script on Phenomena. 87
husband without my knowledge. I had no idea that he
was performing any experiment, and it was only a year or
more afterwards when he told me the circumstances that I
found that there was a connected endeavour on the part of
the script, and that the three pieces now in question belonged
to that series. They were written on June 3, July 31,
and August 16, 1901 ; and each of the three purported to
come from the same signatory. On another occasion, July 23,
1901, two messages were sent, one to Sir Oliver Lodge, the
other to Mrs. Sidgwick, and both seem to have shown some
intelligence on the part of the scribe,1 who was therefore
perhaps justified in saying " it is easier to-night " ; he adds
that the sign, which he then tried to give, was " hard to
make" to me, and he certainly did not succeed in producing
anything intelligible. On Nov. 13, 1901, after Mrs. Forbes
and I had tried Planchette together for the first time with no
results of interest, my script, which was particularly fluent and
,encouraging, though it contained nothing evidential, concluded :
" How much easier it is to-night," and once, on Dec. 1 9,
1901, though at the beginning impressed with the difficulty,
apparently on its own side, it ended by assuring me that I
" understood better " that night. But the effort remains
unintelligible.
Desire frustrated.
Three times the script asserted that it had made an effort
to which I had not responded, and twice it complained in
more general terms that it had wanted to say something,
but had been prevented by me. On the last of these occa
sions—all belong to the earlier days—Sept. 4, 1901, I had
written, in obedience to a strong impulse, and the contents
concerned my husband's sentence.2 On the first occasion,
March 8, 1901, my arm ached before I sat for writing, as
it had done earlier in the day,3 and it is likely that with
more experience I should have recognised this aching as a
desire on the part of my hand to write ; that is probably
the explanation of the opening words of the script : veni hodi-
£rno nondum parata eras, " I came to-day but you were not
yet ready."
!See pp. 194-199. 2See p. 162. 3See p. 13.
88 Chapter V. [PART
On another occasion, when I wrote in obedience to aa
impulse, May 3, 1901, the first words were a question as
to why I had not written the day before when the hand
wanted to write, and a warning that it was difficult if I
refused. I had felt a strong desire to write the day before
while I was at a Committee meeting, but naturally had not
been able to yield to it. On two of the five occasions
when I apparently failed to respond I was entirely unaware
of any special sensation.
Complaint of difficulty.
From time to time the script contains complaints of the-
difficulties of writing, some of them apparently inevitable,
others due to itself, others again—and these more frequently—
due to me. These last complaints seem addressed to me per
sonally, but on some dozen occasions there are to be found
observations to the effect that " it is dark " and therefore use
less to go on at that moment, or that " it is hard " and
" there is confusion," or again that the difficulty is due to want
of experience ; " it will come with patience, it is not usual
hence the difficulty." Twice the scribe wrote, Tu autem
nescis ego non possum, " you don't know and I can't," and
sometimes it says that a date or a word is hard, or that it
is hard " to-day." Besides once saying that the light was
dim, it has on four or five occasions spoken of hindering
darkness, but on the whole there is a marked absence of
the references to " the light " which are common in other
automatic writings known to me. The complaints about
difficulty, like the statements of failure, are found in the-
more scrappy and less successful of the writings, but occa
sionally in the midst of what proves to be of some interest
a complaint is made of the difficulty of giving a particular
thing.
(II.) GENERAL EXHORTATIONS.
There are a very considerable number of remarks through
out the script addressed to me and urging me to " go - on,"
or to " wait for a result," or to " try again," or to " leave
off now," and of these I do not propose to say anything, as
they have no interest and throw no light upon the problem
LIII.] Comments by Script on Phenomena. 89
of the writing. But possibly something may be learnt from
a consideration of the longer and more deliberate utterances.
To judge from the reproaches of the scribe, a great deal of
the difficulty and confusion is directly attributed to me ; I
seem not only unable, but unwilling to understand—indeed,
the unwillingness seems more obvious to the scribe than the
inability. At first the script expressed a good deal of impa
tience with my stupidity, wilful or otherwise : " I should like
to speak, but you will not let me " ; or o mora, ingrata tibi
canam " 0 the delay, I should waste my words on you " ;
or again, " how can I ? help, can't you, combination is the
best." 1 Once after reproaching me with not writing earlier,
as it had long wanted to tell rne something, it went on :
" you cant hear tonight. Your head is full." Yet the next
day it began : " Why did you stop yesterday ? It was interest
ing. But you did not understand." In time, however, the
scribe seems to have realised that the difficulties were not
created wilfully by me, for its impatience unmistakeably
lessens with experience, and though it still tells me some
times that the fault is mine, it seems to recognise that the
fault is not intentional. " This is not right. but you can
do no more," is the latest expression of reproach, a very con
siderable modification of the incisive remarks of earlier days.
But even in the earlier days the script was encouraging
on occasion ; after saying that it would be plain some day,
that it would be easier when I had gone to the mountains,
and so on, it began to commend me. It is true that the
first commendation came only after a reprimand. On Oct.
29, 1901, it wrote (I translate the Latin):
I have often been present; you do not always recognise your
friend ; lay aside your folly ; do not prefer your own interpretation
to that of others. You do not know—you, I mean, you are mistaken ;
you do not know. But you will be able some day. . . .2 Listen and
look at night. no one but you can help you. But you know
more now and I can do it better.
rlt is of course possible that these observations are of the nature
of reported conversations (see above) and not intended for me per
sonally ; but at the time that they were made I took them as
addressed to myself.
2 English began here.
90 Chapter V. [PART
Six weeks later the script began with one of its rolling
mysterious sentences that, like the poetry of dreams, appear
impressive till you take a nearer view, though here, judged
with the context, it may not be wholly meaningless : " Unused
of old forewarned but not exempt—none is. But we learn
like you. It is hard." Then it goes on in Latin : monstro
tiki quod vine possim ; incredibile sane verum quidem. quod si
credos maiora sequuntur* and concludes : " That is all I can
do. You understand better tonight. Go on." And hence
forth, though the encouragement is still sparingly bestowed,
the reproaches almost entirely cease.
Exhortations to believe.
An attitude of belief on the part of the person addressed
is constantly recommended by the script. Patience is desired,
perseverance is advised, careful recording of all that is written,
even if not intelligible, is often urged ; but the most frequently
recurring injunction is to " believe "—not to attach credence
to a particular statement, but to have confidence, generally
speaking, in the authenticity of the phenomena, and to allow
the mind to assume a receptive attitude. Thus on April 19,
1901, a very urgent piece of writing, trying to describe
something that is to be looked for,1 winds up with an appeal
apparently addressed to me, as my initials appear followed
by a signature : " Cant you see ? cant you believe ? M. de
G. V." On three later occasions (April 22, July 4, and
August 16, 1901) it is said that belief will make things clear.
On Sept. 9, 1901, the converse is stated, that the disbelief
of some one (specified) makes it hard. On Nov. 13, 1901,
after Mrs. Forbes and I bad for the first time met and talked
over our automatic writing, my script wrote : " Your belief
helps most—that is why I wanted her to come to you."
Three times more in the next three months does the script
speak of the importance of belief on my part, and on Feb. 27,
1902, after the expression of a strong wish that I should
believe what the writer points out to me, it is stated that
the thing so pointed out is intended for me personally, and
* Trans. "I point out to you what I hardly can; it is certainly
incredible though true. If you believe this greater things follow."
!See p. 195 for the incident, which seems to be evidential.
LIII.] Comments by Script on Phenomena. 91
it is, I think, indicated that matter of general evidential value
shall follow later on. The words are : si modo credere velis
quod tibi monstro, tibi nee caeteris—-postmodo gentibus. " If only
you will believe what I show you—to you not to others,
afterwards to the world."
The injunctions to believe continue at intervals. On June
24, 1902, the script says it has done its part and it is now
for me to do mine ; to understand—-and, what is hardest of
all, to believe ; hard is that, but necessary. Some distinction
is apparently made between belief and faith, for it continues:
" Reason demands belief—and reason will give it. Faith is
another thing—that comes." On March 1, 1903, it is thought
impossible that I should withhold my assent any longer, and
on March 7 the script enquires whether " this is easier to
believe, 0 you who who never give me your faith ! " ! This
remark occurs in a particularly obscure communication appa
rently referring to Neo-Platonic philosophy. On August 22,
1903, I am told to carry out a certain action,2 "and then
write for the certainty—you do not believe that makes
it hard. But Hodgson's letter will encourage you when it
comes this week." No letter from Dr. Hodgson was received
within a week of August 22, 1903, but a letter was written
by him on August 28, 1903, which when it was received
Tjy me on Sept. 7 was found to be distinctly encouraging,
though it contained no proof of the trustworthiness of my
automatic writing. However, although I was not aware of any
particular change in my attitude between the end of August
-and the end of September of that year, the script seems to
have been satisfied, for on Sept. 22, 1903, after referring to
•certain events which would—and did—occur, it went on :
•" Then this writing of mine to you will bring conviction.
Not to you—you have it." Since that time no further refer
ence to my scepticism was made till on August 14, 1904, it
reproached me for not opening the ' sealed envelope ' in the
•words : " And you will not look—Faith is not yours."
So far as I have been able to ascertain, these remarks of
the script do not correspond with any subjective feeling on
1The Latin runs: "Num credibilius illud, o nunquam mihi
iidem praebens."
2 See p. 101.
92 Chapter V. [PART
my own part. From the beginning of 1901 I have kept a
diary in which it has been my habit to note any change or
development of opinion on the subject of the value of the
automatic writing or other kindred topics. Looking through
this diary I find that there is recorded in it a distinctly
increasing tendency towards what I suppose the script would
call "belief," that is, to a disposition to attach value to the com
munications of the script and to attribute them to some external
cause rather than to my own subliminal self. But I can trace
no connexion between the recorded dates of such progressive
opinion and the dates on which the script advises the adop
tion of a receptive attitude, though I think that the tone
adopted in the successive utterances of the script shows a
certain recognition that my attitude was less sceptical latterly
than it had been at first. May 16 and 17, 1901, were the
dates when first it seemed to me that there was something
like evidence for an external cause for the writing, and
on June 1 of the same year a distinct- step in the progressive
opinion of which I have spoken was made. Other dates
there are in this mental progress, especially Nov. 3 and Dec.
19, 1902, Feb. 10, 1903, and above all Oct. 20, 1903.1
But the script, though perhaps admitting a less resolute
incredulity on my part in June, 1902, continues to reproach
me with scepticism, and apparently only recognises a distinct
change of attitude between Aug. 22 and Sept, 22, 1903.
This I certainly did not recognise or record, but on Aug.
26 I carried out an injunction of the script given on Aug.
22,2 and the script of Sept. 1 7 said that my so doing had
helped, so that I am disposed to think that the congratula
tions of Sept. 22 on my change of attitude are due to that
action on my part rather than to any actual change of
opinion as to the value of the script. After all, to carry out
an injunction does show a certain confidence, so that the
script may have had reason for its satisfaction. But it was
not happy in returning in August, 1904, to its old reproach
of want of faith in the case of the experiment with Sir
Oliver Lodge's sealed envelope. The " faith " that was shown
1 For extracts from diary and statements about what occurred on
these dates, see App., p. 369.
2 See preceding page.
LIU.] Comments by. Script on Phenomena. 93
in opening that envelope, at the urging of the script, was
not in the issue justified.1
(III.) DIRECTIONS GIVEN.
No comment is needed on the frequently expressed desire
that I should be patient, should persevere, should note every
thing, should interpret later, and so on, sometimes followed
by promises of success if I would do these things. I pass on
to what may be called the directions given by the script for
the conduct of the whole affair, directions which fall under
three main heads, according as they concern (1) the writing
itself, (2) the publication of the writing, in the widest sense
of the word, making known to others the contents of the
script ; and (3) action other than writing or publication.
1. DIRECTIONS AS TO WHITING.
(a) Negative directions; to abstain.
The directions as to writing 2 are positive and negative ;
I am told not to write for a certain time or to write
regularly, or to write on some special day. On three of the
seven occasions when the script told me to wait the writing
was particularly scrappy ; on the other four, I had been
writing rather more frequently than usual before the desire
for an interval was expressed. In all cases I attended to the
directions, but I have no reason to see in them anything
more than a reflexion of the impression which I may very
well have had that the writing was poor, or that I had been
doing a good deal of it lately.
(5) Positive directions; to write.
The positive directions for writing are very much more
numerous and deserve more attention ; counting one or two
doubtful cases there are in all 34. They are of two types,
{a) vague : where I am told to write during a period of
varying length, and (/3) definite : where a fixed day is named
1 For an arrangement of the dates given in script and diary in
parallel columns, see App., p. 369.
2 For complete list, see App. pp. 371-3.
94 Chapter V. [PART
for writing. It should however be said that where the fixed
day is " to-morrow " I am not sure that the actual next
day is intended, as the script uses "to-morrew" in some other
instances as equivalent to the near future. But in deter
mining the value of its instructions I have naturally not
given it the benefit of the doubt, and have reckoned " to
morrow " as meaning the day subsequent to that on which
the direction was given.
(a) Vague ; during a period.
Instructions to write during a period were given seven
times ; once the remark is unintelligible and may not refer
to a date for me to write at all (March 19, 1903); another
time the writing (Oct. 19, 1903) tells me not to look for
evidence in the script which I am to produce " this week,"
and the script so produced, though all on the same subject
and perhaps presenting points of interest, is not evidential.1
On a third occasion I was prevented from carrying out the
instructions (Oct. 30, 1903).
Four cases remain ; of these the promise that " it is better
in June" (May 29, 1903) was quite unfulfilled, if the
reference is to ascertainable value in the writing. The script
during June, 1903 was particularly scrappy and unconvincing;
it was obtained with difficulty in very uncongenial circum
stances : we were abroad in the worst weather I ever
experienced anywhere, and I was anxious about my husband's
health. On June 30, 1903, however, nothing daunted, it
again told me to write much the next month "here and at
home." I did what I could but was much interrupted, as
we were still travelling till the middle of the month ; 5 pieces
of script thus obtained in July contained nothing of interest,
but a fluent and long piece of writing on July 21 and
another on July 31 produced perhaps the best evidence of
knowledge of facts wholly unknown to me that has occurred.
Of three bits of script produced " this week," according to
orders on March 15, 1903, one was good and two useless.
The directions of Oct. 27, 1902, that I was to write more
often and should be helped " by Talbot all through Novem
ber" tallied with a statement in Mrs. Forbes' script of Oct.
1 See pp. 52-4, 297.
LIII.] Comments by Script on Phenomena. 95
30.1 My own writing in that month of November was more
intelligent and interesting than usual, very little actual rubbish
being produced ; it was in that month also that I received
from Mrs. Forbes the " message " which drew my attention
to the passage in Plato's Symposium? Twice then out of
four times the direction to write during a certain period
proved fruitful.
(ft) Definite : on a fioced day.
" To-night."
It is very unusual for me to write more than once on
the same day ; it has only happened six times in four years,
twice by deliberate intention on my own part, because the
conditions of the first attempt had been such that I was not
sure that the impulse to write had been exhausted, and four
times in obedience to supposed directions in the script. One
of these directions was quite indefinite.3 On another occasion,
March 14, 1902, when the script directed me to "write
each day again to-night," the writing was obscure and ap
parently recognised its failure.
But on the other two occasions when the script urged me
to write again on the same day (June 24 and Dec. 19,
1902), the matter produced was of some interest.
" To-morrow."
Five of the instructions to write on a fixed date appointed
"to-morrow." Of these one (Oct. 22, 1903) is in the middle
of the series described above4 when on several consecutive
occasions the script dealt with the same set of ideas ; it
was on the " morrow " that there was made that combination
of the Gospel phrase and the Platonic allegory which I sub
sequently found to have been previously made by a Father
VFor the "telepathic" connexion between me and Mrs. Forbes,
see p. 238. Mrs. Forbes did not know of my script of Oct. 27
when she wrote on Oct. 30.
2 See p. 241.
3 This does not appear in the list given in the Appendix as it
seems to mean "no more now," rather than a positive direction
"write to-night."
4 See p. 52.
96 Chapter V. [PART
of the Church and a modern commentator. Another belongs
to the series of experiments with Mr. Constable, described
below,1 and on the " morrow " a veridical statement seems
to have been obtained. The third (Dec. 7, 1903) suggested an
experiment which could not be made.
On Feb. 1, 1904 I had fixed my mind before writing
on a particular point upon which I wanted more information
from the script, but though there was a reference to that
point at the beginning, almost at once other irrelevant and
apparently new matter was introduced and the script then
said : " We had another message but this was urgent, write
to-morrow for ours." The writing of the morrow was, how
ever, extremely obscure and if it had any meaning I have
failed to gather it from the extraordinary Greek of which it
is composed. Again on Feb. 5, 1904, the script apparently
tried to be evidential, but recognising its failure said, " write
to morrow but expect no word." I wrote on the next day,
and there was an attempt, only partially successful, to give
evidential matter on a wholly new subject.
" On a fixed day."
The directions to write on a fixed day, numbered 9 to 27
in the Appendix, really represent 21 orders, as two of them
are double (Nos. 17, 20), and fall into three classes, according
as the results 2 on the days in question were good, bad, or
untested. Only a rough classification has been attempted ;
when any matter of apparent interest—of whatever kind—
has been produced, I have classified the result as ' good.'
Untested Results.
The failure to carry out instructions was sometimes due
to defective directions, sometimes to neglect on my part, some
times to a combination of the two. Thus, when on June 30,
1901, the script told me to count 15 days and "listen that
night," I did not then understand, as I should have done
with more experience, that the listening was to be done
!See p. 168.
2 The number of results is 19, as twice two directions for the
same day were given. They may be thus classed : results good, 8 ;
bad, 4 ; untested, 7.
LIII.] Comments by Script on Phenomena. 97
pencil in hand. But on July 17, 1901, the script said that
I ought to have written on July 1 5 in these words :
roga quid eveniat in diem ante hunc biduum—quid evenerit dicere
volui—cur non scripsisti ? *
On the other occasions, through forgetfulness, I failed to carry
out a plain direction. Two of the orders referred to the same
day, but the first time I was told to write on that day was
some fifteen weeks in advance (Dec. 7, 1903) and so I suppose
the script thought it desirable to remind me, for on April 10,
1904, it wrote: "and write on the 23rd." But in spite of this
I regret to say that I forgot all about writing on April 23 till,
on April 27, 1904, I was reminded of it by the script writing:
" Why did you forget the 23rd ? "
Good Results.
On March 29, 1901, the script was written in the morning
at 11 a.m., and therefore the hour then appointed, ten days
and ten hours from that time, would bring us to 9 p.m. in
the evening of April 8. Accordingly at that hour I tried
for writing and the result, though at the time unintelligible
to me, was subsequently found to have a good deal more
meaning than had up to then been discoverable in the pre
ceding script. The script of May 26, 1901, was at 10.20 p.m.,
and the 40 hours which I was to count brings us to 2.30
p.m. on May 28 ; the script so produced contained traces of
a telepathic connexion with a friend. The other four successful
appointments were made on August 7, 1901, when, on the
date arranged, some success was obtained in getting the Greek
sentence wanted by my husband; June 14, 1903, when, on
one of the two dates arranged, there was shown probable
telepathic knowledge of the intentions of a friend named ;
July 13, 1902, and Dec. 27, 1903, when, on the dates
named in the script, undoubted connexion was shown between
my script and Mrs. Forbes1; Dec. 25, 1903, and Jan. 9, 1904,
when on the day named for writing the script produced an
unintelligible association of ideas subsequently found to have
.some interest.2
* Trans. " Ask what is happening two days before this—what has
happened I meant to say ; why did you not write T "
1 See pp. 235, 264. 2 See p. 297.
G
98 Chapter V. [PART
Bad Eesults.
There remain four cases where the writings on the appointed
dates contained nothing of interest. One of them is ambiguous
in more than one point; the direction on March 11, 1903,
to " watch, not alone " and " when the vision comes note the
day " may not indicate automatic writing at all ; and it i»
possible that by " the fifteenth day " the script meant March
15, though the later words "count from now" seem to show
that it meant 15 days after the date of writing, namely,
March 26. I wrote on both days ; March 15 brought a
partial success in obtaining a password given by Mrs. Piper in
trance, but March 26 gave nothing so far found valuable.
Another case probably represents a revived memory and is
in any case ambiguously expressed. On Dec. 28, 1904, the
script wrote:
6 days you must wait from now and other 3. then the message
will make things clear. Let it come then.
It was not certain whether I was to write on the date given
or to expect a message from some one else. No message
came. My own writing on January 6, 1905, referred to
Mrs. Forbes, but was not evidential. As the next paragraph
in the script of December 28, 1904 after this mention of a
date, also referred to Mrs. Forbes, and as on consideration I
remembered that January 6 was a day of associations for
Mrs. Forbes and marked a coincidental cross-correspondence
between her and me in the preceding year 1904,1 there is
little doubt that the recollection of this fact produced the
instructions of ihe script of December 28, 1904, to wait six
days, and then three. The elaborate allusion to a date
already marked in my mind is paralleled in the script of
Sept. 28, 1901, where a second reference to "October 19"
appears in a similar form, not intelligible without some
consideration.2
It is not easy to draw any conclusion from an examination
of these results ; in many cases it seems as if the remarks
of the script were reflexions of feelings more or less dimly
present in my own normal consciousness, and this probably
occurs more often than has been recognised. The number of
^ee p. 264. 2See p. 330.
LIII.] Comments by. Script on Phenomena, 99
successes is not sufficiently great in comparison with the
number of failures to justify much confidence in the directions
of the script ; but it may perhaps be said that more value
attaches to its positive than to its negative statements, and
experience shows that it is desirable to carry out the injunc
tions whenever they are intelligible, and to give some attention
to discovering their meaning.
The direction to " write regularly " is not infrequent, and
it is not certain whether this is to be regarded as a general
remark, such as those above mentioned, to " go on," etc., or
whether it is meant for a specific order, to apply under the
immediate circumstances. In either case there seems nothing
to learn from a detailed consideration of the occasions when
the advice is given ; I have carried it out whenever I could.
2. DIRECTIONS AS TO "PUBLICATION."
When the script makes a definite statement, it usually
gives no indication of the persons to whom this is to be com
municated, but occasionally it expresses a desire that certain
information should be conveyed or withheld, or corroborated
by enquiry. Where names of persons are thus introduced the
writings will be discussed in detail when I deal with " verifiable
incidents." The names are often, I think, introduced as part
of the information which the script seeks to give, and the
form " Ask (So and So) " is not meant to convey an instruction,
but to say for whom the incident will have a meaning. Some
times the relation of an incident or the introduction of a
name is followed by such remarks as " Tell (some one) this," or
" Ask, ask till you know," " surely you can find out from
some one," but it is not common for the script to do this. On
the other hand there have been some dozen occasions on which
it has enjoined temporary or permanent silence. Twice the
script implies that information given is for me personally and
not for general use. One of these injunctions is intelligible to
me, but on the other occasion the direction apparently means
that the information is still incomplete. Twice I am told not
to tell a special person, but the description of the person is
too indefinite for identification. Four times the script tells me
not to ask but to wait for information, twice with complete
justification, but twice for no discoverable reason. Once I
100 . Chapter V. [PART
am told not to tell my husband something and once not to
tell Dr. Hodgson ; on neither occasion have I found any mean
ing in the injunction. On Sept. 22, 1903, I was told not
to say anything about the Symposium passage yet, but the
information subsequently given in the script about this passage
was incorrect, and all that my script stated correctly about it1
had already been given before the recommendation to wait
before talking of it. Again the script told me on Oct. 12,
1903, not to ask Mrs. Sidgwick something yet, but when it
removed the prohibition, no information was obtainable to justify
its previous advice.
On the whole then no special value seems to attach to the
directions of the script on this point.
3. OTHER DIRECTIONS.
(a) Negative.
From time to time also the script has given me negative
and positive instructions of a more general nature ; the
negative are not many, only some three or four, and do not
seem important ; ne tentaveris novas was, for instance, " do
not try new methods," is too vague to have any interest.
(6) Positive.
The positive instructions vary considerably. Sometimes they
deal with particular points, as when the script attempts to
obtain verification of something previously described : " look
in the paper for three days" (March 19, 1902) or
"Look in paper" (October 21, 1902). On neither occasion
could I find anything in the paper which bore on the con
tents of the script. On the other hand the repeated direction
(from Jan. 14 to Jan. 31, 1903) to look in Human Per
sonality for a reference to a passage from the Symposium
was justified.2
Once I was told to look back in the script for the explana
tion of a statement made, but my researches were not
successful. Two or three times the script has referred to
earlier allusions to the subject with which it was then dealing.
Several orders have been given which are not intelligible ;
!See pp. 310-8. 2See p. 315.
LIU.] Comments by Script on Phenomena. 101
these occur chiefly in the earlier writings, though one at least
came fairly late. A few suggestions concerning specified
persons 1 have been made, and once, as above mentioned,2 the
script urged me to perform a specified action (Aug. 22, 1903).
Whether any useful purpose was served by my carrying out
that order, I am unable to determine ; the facts are given
below in sequence :
Auy. S3, 1903. Order given, followed by statement that I
did not believe and that made it hard.
Aug. 26. Action performed.3
Sept. 9. Script gave information, subsequently verified, also
referred to Dr. Hodgson, and made its first effort to send him
the " Syringa " message.4
Sept. 17. Script said that the action done had helped me
to the thought and that the knowledge would come.
It thus appears that not long after I had carried out the
order of the script I did obtain an evidential statement in
my script (Sept. 9) and though at the time of writing I
had no idea that the script of Sept. 9 was of special interest,
the next script, Sept. 17, claimed that I had been helped by
carrying out its order. But in the absence of other similar
instances it would be unwise to conclude that post hoc is here
propter hoc.
On the other hand there seems good reason to attach value
to the directions of the script to " note the hour " of writing ;
the remark struck me as superfluous, for the date and hour
of sitting down to write is always the first thing I note on
the paper. But of the ten occasions when the script has drawn
attention to the importance of noting the hour or date, only
thrice—once, April 16, 1901, the day is insufficiently indi
cated—has the exact date failed to be of importance ; twice
1 These are discussed later under verifiable incidents.
2 See p. 92.
3 On Aug. 26 immediately after carrying out the order I tried
for automatic writing, but the script had no bearing on anything
known to me and has not proved evidential, though obviously
intended so to be; the script of Aug. 31 contained evidential matter
relating to other subjects ; no other writing was obtained between
Aug. 22 and Sept. 22 except as here described.
* See p. 307.
102 Chapter V. [PART
(May 27, 1901, and Feb. 6, 1904) it is doubtful whether the
matter given is distinctive enough to be evidential, though
in both cases the exact date would be essential for evidence ;
but in the other five cases evidential matter depending on the
exact time of writing was given. Details will be found later
as these cases are discussed among " verifiable incidents." 1
Instructions for improvement, etc.
The general instructions for the improvement of the writing
or the production of evidential matter are of three main types ;
according as they are concerned with (1) Dr. Hodgson, (2)
sitting with other sensitives, (3) watching for information con
veyed during sleep.
(1) Dr. Hodgson.
Dr. Hodgson's 2 name was the first to be given in the script
(April 3, 1901), the first English sentence (April 16, 1901)
contained his name, " ask Hodgson he knows "; and his name
has been frequently mentioned throughout. Owing to his
absence from England, it was not possible for him to see more
than extracts from the writing and that may perhaps be the
reason why the script constantly suggested that I " should show
him all " as " he more than any would understand." It has
also expressed not only the wish that he should come to
England but the assurance that he would. Therein it has
shown itself in error.
(2) Other sensitives.
Another thing that the script seems disposed to urge is
that I should " sit " with other persons, not apparently so
much for special evidential purposes as to facilitate the pro
duction of writing. Thus, on Dec. 14, 1902, it writes: "You
and another—try together," and again on July 21, 1903,
as a definite message to me from Mr. Gurney, " Sit with
some one else—so that you may be free for the impression.
you would help—and you would learn." On Sept. 17, 1903,
1 See App., p. 373, for list of passages, and references to pages
where the various incidents are discussed.
2 See p. 202 for references to Dr. Hodgson.
mi.] Comments by Script on Phenomena. 103
it writes : " I cant do much more through you alone but sit
,with others and learn to help. In the winter I will tell you
more." On July 17, 1903, it suggested that I should sit with
a lady of my acquaintance; and this it repeated on Sept. 17,
1903. Meanwhile this lady's own automatic writing had
made the same suggestion to her on July 11, 1903. In
August she entered into communication with me and we sat
-together in October, 1903, and have done so from time to
time since. After the temporary interruption of our oppor
tunities for meeting during my absence from Europe in
1904, the script resumed the suggestion on April 27, 1904.
In these remarks the script seems to show a knowledge
of the possibilities of the situation, as before it began to
suggest that I should sit with this lady I had made her
acquaintance and knew that she was interested in these
and similar phenomena, though I was very far from antici
pating that she would let me join her group. But in other
respects it showed a complete ignorance of what was feasible.
It was, for instance, suggested in the script that I should sit
with another lady, though I knew perfectly well that such a
suggestion was impracticable.
<3) Sleep.
The third class of general directions concerns impressions
conveyed in sleep. The actual cases of possible connexion
between my dreams and my automatic writing are discussed
later.1 But there is no doubt that the script expects that
information may be conveyed during my sleep to supplement
what comes by automatic writing. On none of the occasions
when the script told me to listen on any particular night
-did I remember any impression the next morning on waking,
so that though it is possibly true that impressions similar
to those conveyed by automatic writing may also be con
veyed in dreams—and some experiences of my own seem to
-confirm this—there is no reason to think that the scribe has
any knowledge as to when such impressions are likely to
be distinct enough to be remembered on waking, nor that
!A list of passages in the script referring to the possibility of con
veying information in dreams is given in Appendix, p. 374. See also
Ibelow, Chapter VII.
104 Chapter V. [PART
in my case the expectation aroused by the writing produces
any effect on my dreams.
(4) Reference to personal matters.
Throughout the script there has been exceedingly little of
a personal nature ; no advice whatever has been given as to
my own health, for instance, or that of any one else, there
has been no general moral advice, and such " philosophical " talk
as occurs seems to refer to particular philosophical views and
to be meant for evidential matter rather than to have any
ethical or didactic intention. The number of references in
the script to feelings or preoccupations of my own, real or
supposed, is less than a dozen ; twice the script suggested
that I had been of more service to a friend in distress than
I had thought ; once it referred sympathetically to an incident
which had caused me considerable distress. As above described
it has constantly urged upon me the necessity of belief, but
this rather with a view to obtain better phenomena than for
any personal reason. For the rest its personal advice is
entirely confined to the four months between Oct. 6, 1903,
and Feb. 9, 1904, when on four occasions (Oct. 6, Dec. 26
and 27, 1903, and Feb. 9, 1904) it told me "not to worry,"
and once (Jan. 1, 1904) to "clear my thoughts of public
affairs." It was in the month of October, 1903, that the
question of applying for leave of absence and going to Algeria
for the sake of my husband's health was first seriously con
sidered. We left home on Dec. 11, 1903, and remained
away till March 11, 1904. During that time I had a
great deal more anxiety than usual and this feeling was
probably reflected in the writing. It is noticeable that the
writing, with very few exceptions, was meaningless and scanty
during this absence from home and that not on account of
any lack of opportunity ; we were stationary during more
than ten weeks and I had plenty of leisure for writing. The
contents of the script were for the most part worthless, full
of promises as to letters that would come and news that
was not to disturb me, no doubt attributable to the vague
disquiet and preoccupation of my normal self.
LIU.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 105
CHAPTER VI.
UNVERIFIABLE STATEMENTS OR ALLUSIONS.
BEFORE passing to the consideration of verifiable incidents,,
there remain to be described a considerable number of writings
dealing with various subjects, some of which purport to be
verifiable, but. have not, for various reasons, been verified, some
of which make no such claim. In some of these cases, a
partial explanation may be found in reminiscences, more or
less conscious, or in the emergence of a wholly forgotten
knowledge. In some cases no explanation has suggested itself.
Some of the incidents described in this chapter have the
appearance of mere failures, unsuccessful attempts to produce
what if true would be of evidential value. In some instances
the details are defective, in others the whole account hope
lessly vague ; while parts resemble records of a dream. It
seems best to attempt no classification of these incidents
according to their purpose or intention ; I have grouped
together such as resembled one another in external character,
described them, and appended such comment as seemed
necessary.
(I.) UNKNOWN NAMES.
There have been from time to time in the script names
unknown to me, sometimes occurring in connexion with incidents
related or suggested, sometimes found without any context.
The whole number is not large, and the mere names are chiefly
found in the opening sentences of the script, where as I
have said before, nonsensical words and phrases are apt to
occur before the communication proper begins. Excluding
ten or twelve such cases, there remain twenty-five instances
where names, so far without any meaning, appear in conjunction
with some bit of description or other indication suggesting
that they are part of a latent reminiscence or of an attempt.
106 Chapter VI. [PART
to produce verifiable matter. In twenty-one of these cases, the
attempt, whatever may have been intended, is unsuccessful.
Two may be reminiscences ; one is perhaps a prediction, and
one seems veridical. These are discussed under their several
heads.1 Nine of the groups of unidentified names were
published in a note in the S.P.R. Journal for November, 1903,
in the hopes that they might have some meaning for readers
of the Journal, but no light has been thrown upon them, and
there is no reason to think that they represent anything more
than subliminal reminiscences of names heard or seen,—woven
together by some dream-like process into the semblance of a
story.
(II.) UNIDENTIFIABLE DESCRIPTIONS.
(a) Scenes.
Closely analogous to the introduction of unknown names is
the appearance of other unidentifiable matter, descriptions of
persons, scenes, or objects, unnamed and not recalling anything
to me. These are apparently of the same type as crystal-
visions2 and might certainly be expected in any automatic
phenomena produced by a strong visualiser, such as I am.
The point that seems to call for notice is not that they occur,
but that they occur less frequently than I should have been
disposed to anticipate. There are fourteen descriptions of
scenes in which persons take part, three descriptions of some
person unknown, and eight descriptions of objects, the objects
being however only four, as two of them are described more
than once. It is of course possible that some of these scenes
or objects may be eventually identified, but until that has
,taken place they scarcely seem to require comment.
They are in some cases evidently affected by my surroundings
at the time of writing ; thus, during a stay in the Alps, the
script described persons talking " in the Alps not here " while
the moon shone on a lake, walking " up a long gray valley "
with a " sound of falling water," or walking on a hillside
•" with patches of snow." In one case an incident described
in the script was undoubtedly connected with an impression
1 See App., p. 374, for list of unknown names and references to
pages where further comment on the incidents has been made.
2 For an account of my experiments in crystal-gazing see
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VIII., p. 473-478.
mi.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 107
-about a stranger, probably due to unconscious observation ;
this is described in detail later.1 In other cases there seems
no more explanation of the scene described than can be given
for the imagery of a dream.2
(&) Persons.
The three descriptions of unknown persons are all in Latin,
and purport to be evidential. These are not the least like
anything that ever occurs in my own dreams or in crystal-
gazing, and are therefore here noticed in detail.
(1) On Jan. 8, 1902, the script wrote:
One comes to you—magis tibi quam ceteris o quam bene currit
•calamus paterna lingua nee alius facile interpretatur. prodest
autem scientiae.*
Then followed an apparent attempt to relate an incident
known to my husband as a boy at school.3 Then Latin began
again :
Latine loquitur Latium incolens multos ante annos nona decies
admodum non Romau indigena sed alienus perfervido ingenio plus
quam matrem films urbem illam coronatam amavit. Hoc debes
«ognoscere et tu.f
The words perfervido ingenio recall the familiar phrase,
*' Perfervidum illud Scotorum ingenium," which, as I remem
bered at once, is introduced into the inscription on the
memorial tablet in Trinity College Chapel to Dr. H. A. J.
Munro, Professor of Latin at Cambridge. He died and was
buried at Rome in 1885, but though perhaps a fanciful
imagination might thus say that he dwelt in Latium, no
ingenuity can apply to him the number nona decies, " 90th."
I have not been able to find that the epithet " crowned " is
* Trans. "Bather to you than others. Oh how easily runs the pen
in its (or his) native tongue ! nor does another easily interpret.
But it benefits knowledge."
t Trans. " He speaks in Latin : he dwells in Latium, many years
ago about the ninetieth, not a native of Rome but a foreigner, his
impetuous genius loved that crowned city more than a son his
mother. This even you ought to know well."
1See below, p. 141.
2 Six of the fourteen scenes were described while I was abroad,
,when I was constantly seeing new places.
3 See p. 277.
108 Chapter VI. [PART
used of Rome by Dr. Munro, nor by Lucretius, the author
whom he edited and with whom he is specially associated.
The epithet is, however, obviously appropriate to any city
surrounded with a wall. The same idea occurs in another
passage of the script, May 13, 1902 :
Date lilia Romae coronatae illi urbi super montibus sedenti—iinuio
positae—aspice deam! velata comam insuper sedit—corona gemmata
fulgebit.*
Here the first words are a direct allusion to Virgil, Aen.
VI. 883, " manibus date lilia plenis," t and it is probable that the
rest of the description is influenced by the preceding passage in
that poem, where in the vision of the Rome that shall be, seen
by Aeneas, the City is turrita, " towered like the Berecynthian
Mother," the account of whose progress in Lucretius' second
Book is clearly in the mind of the later poet.1 The Great
Mother is described by Lucretius as wearing the corona muralis,
the " mural crown," familiar in the representations of Cybele,
so that the words " urbem illam coronatam " though not
actually used by either Lucretius or Virgil are easily explicable
as an allusion to both passages, and in conjunction with the
phrase " perfervido ingenio " suggest that the person indicated
is Dr. Munro.2
* Trans. " Give lilies • to Rome, to that crowned city seated—or
rather set—upon the mountains. Behold the goddess ! with veiled
hair she sits aloft; the jewelled crown will gleam."
t Trans. " Give lilies with full hands."
1 See Conington's note on Virgil, Aen. VI. 785.
2 It further appears that the goddess Roma, a late conception
and the visible type of the Fortune of the City, wore the mural
crown, in imitation of Cybele, on the coins of certain cities of Asia
Minor, but not in her representations at Rome (see Preller, Rom.
Myth. p. 705 to 709) ; it would seem therefore that there is an
appropriateness in the application of the epithet "crowned" to
Rome in the mouth of certain foreigners, as contrasted with natives
of Rome ; this was, as far as I know, entirely unknown to me at
the time of writing the script; it was only in investigating the
subject for the purposes of this paper that I became acquainted with
the above facts about the Goddess Roma. But even granted that
the use of the epithet " crowned " in conjunction with what precedes
suggests that the person intended is a native of Asia Minor who
loves Rome as his own country, we are no nearer discovering who
that person is.
LIU.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 109
(2) A month later, Feb. 10, 1902, came, again in Latin,
a description of some one, but again there is no means of
identification. After saying in Greek that the brother is
renowned and that his works do not perish,1 the script
continues :
Magister sui generis ambulando dicta—non sane obiter dicta—
promulgat. Quem si bene legis multa de veritate invenies. leges
volui tu autem insciens legis posuisti. Magus erat in populis non
bene eruditis, scientiae vero magistrum raelius vocabis eum.*
The allusions to the peripatetic teaching, to the magical
reputation,2 and to his mastership, suggest that the person
here described is Aristotle, " il maestro di lor che sanno," the
master of those that know, as Dante calls hiin, but the
identification is not certain, and there was no traceable reason
why Aristotle should be in my thoughts at the time this was
written. The rest of the script contained statements about
Dr. Hodgson, and some proposed arrangements for sittings
•with Mrs. Piper, but was not evidential.
(3) On Sept. 27, 1902, the script made another attempt,
.also mainly in Latin, to describe some one, and again here, as
in the two preceding efforts, there is a certain flavour of
literary allusion. The words are :
nee domitus indomita cervice post imiltas victorias sese erigit
quern si impigre comprehendis, ecce clavis in manu tua iam est—
utinam facundior esset eloquentia tua ! non ego desum. tu autem
moraris.—That old man eloquent. C.t
* Trans. " A master unexampled he utters his sayings—not how
ever obiter dicta—as he walks. If you read him, you will find much
that concerns truth ; I meant ' if you will read ' but in your ignor
ance you set down 'if you read.' He was a wizard among illiterate
peoples, but you might better call him a master of knowledge."
t Trans. " Untamed with neck untamed after many victories he
,uprears(?) himself; if with zeal you understand him, lo, you have
the key in your hand. I wish your speech were more fluent ! It
is not my fault ; it is you that hinder."
1 See p. 55 for an account of the possible earlier emergence of
this remark.
2 This may refer to his reputation among the unlearned of the
Middle Ages, or more probably to the curious fact that the most
learned of Greeks came from among the half barbarous peoples of
,the borders of Greece.
110 Chapter VI. [PART
The " old man eloquent " is of course Isoerates, killed, as
Milton says,1 by the news of the defeat at Chaeroneia ; it is,.
I suppose, possible that the whole description is intended to
apply to Isoerates, but the unmistakeable allusion does not-
occur till quite the end, after the mention of the word
doquentia, and it seems equally likely that the juxtaposition
of eloquence and some one untamed by defeat has brought
with it a reminiscence of Isoerates. In either case there is-
no reason to suppose that the name of the person described,,
whether or not he were Isoerates, would explain any of the
problems connected with the automatic writing.
(c) Objects.
No particular interest attaches to the first of the objects-
apparently intended for identification. On Oct. 9 and 31,
1902, is a description of the contents of a chest with a scent
like cedar wood, and on Nov. 11, 1902, I am told to make
enquiries, but no further clue is given, and no identification
has been made. Twice, on March 3 and May 13, 1903, there
has been a description of a book bound in leather, inside
which there seems to be a paper of importance. It should
perhaps be noted that twice in the course of some experiments-
in simultaneous writing with a lady in the spring of 1904
her script contained a reference to a mislaid paper of impor
tance to me, which was in a book, a book further described
as " an old history book." But I should suppose that the
mislaying of papers, and the possibility of their having been
placed inside a book and forgotten, would be a fairly general
" topic " among automatic writers and valueless unless the two-
communications showed greater evidence of similarity than these
do. The third object sought for is a small pearl cross, but no-
clue is given to the owner,2 though it is twice referred to. The
1 Milton, Sonnet x.
2 In February, 1905, I noticed that a friend was wearing a pearl-
cross closely resembling the cross described in the script in the
summer of 1903. It is possible that some years ago I had seen
this cross worn, and that the description in the script is due to a
recollection of it. No supernormal knowledge is shown by the
script ; the cross has, it is true, as stated by the script, an inscrip
tion on the back, but the inscription is not given by the script,.
LIII.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. Ill
last attempt to describe an object differs from the others
in being extremely detailed, but so far nothing remotely re
sembling either the object or the place where it is said to
be has been recognised by me.
(d) Anecdotes.
Besides the scenes, persons, and objects above described,
there have on three occasions 1 been related in Latin anecdotes
claiming to have their source in some authority insufficiently
indicated. These also I take to be something after the
manner of dreams and not susceptible of explanation. One of
the three, a story about R. Nevile, has already been discussed ; 2
it was written in a strange handwriting and presented some
peculiarities of language. The other two simulate the sort
of story that might be found in a Hagiology, or some similar
compilation. One, on Oct. 26, 1901, relates how a jailer
asked his prisoner to restore the health of his son, and
obtained his wish. It appears to centre in some way round
a word like " Caristia," for this group of sounds enters more
than once into the story. After an allusion to the Saints
Crispin and Crispianus,3 follows an attempt to make the
same sounds into a geographical name, "Caristia insula Rhodani."
Lastly, the script suggests that the story which it has narrated
will be found in the " Caristian legend of St. Josepha," and
then proceeds to correct the word, " not quite Caristia," by
giving " Charis," and then the same in Greek, xa/°'?- These
last observations suggest attempts at the word Christian, but
unfortunately there is no more reason to suppose that there
is a Christian legend of Saint Josepha, whoever she may be,
containing a story of a jailer's sick son than that the
incident took place on an island in the Khone called Caristia—
or by any other name.
The other story was related on June 5, 1904, and contains
no clue as to its origin ; it tells of the coming to a foreign
coast of a Macedonian ship with a Chalcedonian steersman.
The chief of the local tribe seems to have come down to the
and the only definite statement—a date said to be connected with
the cross—is incorrect.
!See App., p. 376. 2See p. 24.
3 See p. 143 for further comment on this revived memory.
112 Chapter VI. [PART
shore in some trepidation, accompanied by his soldiers, when
the sudden disappearance of the ship and a clap of thunder
terrified the natives, who saw in it an omen of disaster to
themselves—an omen which, however, is discredited by the
intelligent narrator. This strange tale is said to have been
told by an unnamed bishop in whose book it is to be found.
But without further information I fear that the bishop will
remain unnamed, and his book unknown.
The giving of unidentifiable names, spurious messages, and
so on, is of common occurrence in automatic phenomena, as
will be admitted by all who have experimented with table-
tilting, planchette, and such instruments. The ratio of these
unidentified names, etc., to the mass of the script is however
considerably less than has been the case in most of the
automatic phenomena of the common type, produced by two
persons, with which I am acquainted.
(III.) " ISLES OF THE BLEST."
Besides the descriptions above referred to, which may be
intended for accounts of actual places, there occur from time
to time in the script descriptions of a less definite character,
which seem to relate to a visionary dwelling place, a kind of
Elysian Fields or Isles of the Blest. In some cases it is possible
that literary reminiscence colours the description ; while in other
cases the imagery bears a certain resemblance to sensations
which I have experienced in dreams. The series forms so
characteristic a group in the automatic writings that I have
thought it worth while to describe and comment in detail.
Though the first unmistakeable description 1 of an " Isle of
the Blest" did not appear till nearly two years after the
inception of the script, there are among the quite early writings
fragments which suggest that some such idea had been seeking
expression earlier in the subliminal consciousness. Thus on
March 11, 1901, a fragmentary passage refers to a place of
which the notes are : growing flowers, sweet odours, dewy
drops, and divine inhabitants. These same ideas occur again
on March 29, 1901, where, however, the phraseology is more
1 See App., p. 377, for complete text of passages describing "Isles
of the Blest."
Lin.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 113
mystic ; the " scented flower of light," for instance, can scarcely
describe a natural object. On this occasion a Greek word ocr/u.rj
is introduced, and the writer seems dimly aware of the esoteric
nature of his sayings, as he concludes with the suggestion that
though what he says may be of use to the wise, enough has
been said "for a stranger." On April 27, 1901, some one,
probably myself, is reproached with having a mind too much
fixed on this earth, and urged in language reminiscent of
Horace's Ode to Archytas, and of Lucretius' address to
Epicurus,1 to let the soul soar to the regions of the sky,
" where all is clear, all bathed in rosy light, plain even for
the blind to see : but darkness surrounds your eyes."
Discouraged apparently by my insensibility, the script makes
no further reference to any visionary scene till January, 1903,
when a deliberate attempt seems to have been made to
describe an 'Abode of the Blest.' The script of Jan. 18,
1903, was produced under somewhat special circumstances,
related here as possibly accounting for the writing. Before
trying for writing I had sat alone, as noted at the
time, for about twenty minutes thinking of talks I had
had on three particular occasions, when the question of
survival after death had for special reasons been prominent
in my thoughts. The writing is confused, and in places un
intelligible ; it contains two or three inaccuracies, such as
diciliora for difficiliora, discre for discere, but it plainly begins
with an allusion to the dead, and ends with a description
of an abode of departed friends. The opening phrases are full
of reminiscences, Christian and classical ; in the second there
is a curious mistake, or perhaps a deliberate correction, which
my normal self could never have made. The script has vivida
vis animai. The phrase in Lucretius' address to Epicurus at
the opening of his poem (I. 72) runs: vivida vis animi pervicit
(" the living force of his soul gained the day," as Munro
translates it), the word used by Lucretius being naturally
animus, the intellectual part of man, not anima, the breath of
1 Script : ascripta es glebae mente vel ingenio. Lucr, I. 74, on the
contrary, of Epicurus: " omne immensum peragravit mente animoque.
Script : " libera animam . . . per polum transcurre." Hor. Od. I. 28. 5.
" animoque . . . percurrisse polum." Perhaps the " modo cantoris "
of the script is intended to mean "as the poet says."
H
114 Chapter VI. [PART
life. It is impossible that any one who knows Lucretius or
the Epicurean system should confuse the two words. But
the modification of the language of the great materialistic
poet in an attempt to prove survival of the spirit after
bodily death is perhaps intentional.
What follows is quite unintelligible. The scribe claims to
have deposited " some such thing " with a friend, and bids me
announce this to the friend in question ; something is to be
done with the puzzling piece of furniture a " supellex " ; 1
something is to be sent away to a foreign land. Then comes
the suggestion of an " Isle of the Blest," where " gentle
unspoiled flowers on the turf " are apparently 2 " drenched with
liquid dew," where there is a scented breeze, a cross which
reaches to the pole of the heavens, and " happiness in the
shade with many a little stream, and a fair flowered lawn."
There dwell the " Blest whom you knew well." The inter
mingling of flowers and grass, and the Christian symbolism,
suggest that there may here be a recollection of the valley
in Purgatory where Sordello led Dante to see the souls of
Rudolph and other kings ; but the distinctive touches in
Dante's picture are absent. On the other hand, in the epithet
blandus, " kindly " or " gentle," applied to the flowers, and
perhaps in integer, " whole," " unspoiled," are traces of that
' nice derangement of epitaphs ' which would appropriately
describe sensations belonging to certain of my dreams,3 where
quasi-intellectual or ethical impressions are conveyed by physi
cal means.
Two days later, Jan. 20, 1903, the script again attempted
to describe an " Abode of the Blest," saying this time that
I had seen or read it, and ought to recognise. The last
words, in English, " bliss under the shadow of a great tree,"
recall the umbrosa felicitas of the script of Jan. 18, and suggest
that the same sort of place is being described. But a different
suggestion is made by the introductory paragraph. The words
are not very clear, but it seems evident that the scene
described has some association with water. " The daughters
1 See p. 37.
2 For language, see above, p. 44.
3 See below, p. 149.
Liu.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 115
of Nestor come round with every kind of many-sounding
chord," they " swim round about upon the waves " ; there is
" a string of dolphins " and an " echoing plash." The band
of " Nereids grows faint," a " vast chink " gapes open ; 1 into
this the spectator is apparently invited to go, to find " no
movement, a feeling of terror and empty void."
This recalled nothing whatever to my mind. Homer has
described a cave of nymphs in Ithaca (Od. XIII., 96), and
Porphyry has made it into an elaborate allegory, though of
the latter fact I was not aware at the time of writing the
script;2 I knew the passage in Homer. Homer, however,
calls the Nymphs Naiads ; that or Nereids would be the
natural word for me to use. How the word Nestoridae
" daughters of Nestor," comes in I am unable to say ; it is
not so far as I know used in classical poetry,3 and the
two or three daughters assigned by mythology to Nestor were
not Nymphs. The Nereids with the dolphins are common
enough in classical poetry, but I can make nothing of the
" chink," and all my associations with habitations of the Blest
would place them in " Islands " or " Meadows," not in caves.
Not until two months later, when I read Porphyry's allegorical
interpretation of the passage in Homer, had I any idea that
the Abode of the Blest had been placed by any one in a
sea cave.
In the next reference to this subject, March 27, 1903,
the chink re-appears, and this time there is no doubt of its
object ; " the winds drop," says the scribe, " and there gapes
a huge chink through which you may see inside if you stoop
your head." Then follows a description of the usual type :
a silvery light prevails, accompanied by varied colours and
varied scents ; saffron and yellow flowers, purple and rose
1 It is possible that the first piece of writing on this subject
(March 11, 1901), contains an attempt to describe the ingens rima
in the words " vrifra ingens . . . nee sine stupore," " below a huge . . .
and a feeling of stupor."
2 See below, p. 290.
3 The masculine Nestorides is common enough in the Odyssey
as applied to Telemachus' companion, the young son of Nestor,
Antilochus. The only possible connexion between Nestoridae and
Nereides, which seem to be used by the script as equivalents, is
that Nestor and Nereus were both typical old wise men.
116 Chapter VI. [PART
colour, wave after wave rolls on ; all glows with light ; in the
midst may be seen those who were before " described as seated."
The English words that follow, describing a " flame that flickers
not," have no literary associations for me, but the next phrase
lurida tela diei, the " glittering shafts of day," recalls a well-
known passage in Lucretius. But the next allusions convey
nothing to me, as I have not been able to find any prototype
for the " crystal frozen founts," nor can I identify the " dark
shore "; the actual phrase a/cr^ wavey does not seem to occur
in any classical author.1
The next account, May 29, 1903, is still more highly
coloured. The same general type of ideas occurs : clear (?) ~
water is sprinkled from a holy fount ; close beside are " many
coloured flowers, their crowns already opened to the western
wind." In the next words appears a touch of synaesthesia :
" there is a crimson scent in that garden plot." The leafy
woods sing with the varied harmonies of birds. Over all
goes twining the ivy " that holds the gods," 3 an ivy not like
ours, but " gold-coloured in its leafed and berried spirals ;
like to the supple yellow blooming helichrys with which the
god himself wreaths his hyacinthine locks. From every
separate leaf is distilled a dewy drop, like the jewel on
the topmost blades of grass in the first light of the sun
after that night before which Nothing was." Then with
the closing words in English, the script returns to its
synaesthesia :
golden birds on a golden bough, and golden songs in a real
Hesperid garden— Sound and sight and sense are one and all of it
golden in the golden days.
Part of this writing is probably reminiscent of a phrase in
the first Idyll of Theocritus (Theo. Id. I., 29, 30) where the
yellow berried ivy mixed with helichrys makes the decoration
of the run of a cup given as a prize. The German editor,
whose book I read 25 years ago—and had not looked at
since—says that the ivy in this passage is " not our common
1 See pp. 286-93 for further comment on Neo-Platonic allusions.
2 No word remotely resembling clargedula exists in Latin.
3 The phrase capax deorum is curious, but there seems no doubt
of its meaning.
LIII.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 117
ivy, hedera helix, but the yellow-berried ivy, hedera poetica,
or ckrysocarpa," and his note may be represented in the script ;
the ivy of the poet's wreath is of course the ivy specially sacred
to " the god " Bacchus. But I can find no prototype for the
latter part of the description, for the dewdrops on the grass
in the sunlight of the first morning of Creation, nor has the
passage in Theocritus any association with " Isles of the Blest,"
or " Gardens of the Hesperides."
The introduction of the " Hesperid Garden " is perhaps due
to another literary reminiscence not recognised till much later.
Immediately before the description just quoted was an allu
sion to the word " Orotava," which had been given in the script
of April 17, 1903, "as a pass word." The word had no meaning
to me, and I did not know whether it was a real or fancy name.
On this occasion, May 29, 1903, it was not given correctly:
" You have given the name though you do not believe it,"
says the script. " Let some one ask in sounding phrase,"
ore rotundo,— no— orotando Orotara is more like
O r o t a n a through Tara's halls;
then after a direction to write next month came the descrip
tion above quoted. In October, 1904, on reading the recently
published Fragments of Prose and Poetry by Mr. Myers, I
found the word Orotava in a poem called " Garden of the
Hesperides," and after ascertaining that it was a local name
in Teneriffe, I found Ijhat the same name appears also in a
poem on Teneriffe in an earlier volume, the Renewal of Youth,
which I had read some years before the above script was
produced. In that poem the Canary Islands are called
" Haunts of Hesperides," so that the association between
Orotava and Hesperid Garden may be due to the emergence
of a memory. But I must ask the reader to take my word
for it, that the resources of my normal knowledge and memory
were quite unequal to producing the odd combination of
allusions in three languages written by the script on May 29,
1903.
The last of the descriptions of Abodes of the Blest came on
Aug. 8, 1903, and differs from the others in several respects
—indeed, if it were not for the definite statement towards
the end, that it was describing where were " the happy blest,"
118 . Chapter VI. [PART
I should hardly have classed it with the others of this type.
It is mainly in English, with a few fragmentary Greek phrases
near the beginning and near the end. It is chiefly occupied
with an attempt to describe what s.eems indescribable, an
effect of radiant blue light which casts no shadow, and of
a pillar which, standing with no reflexion on a crystal floor,
is yet not transparent, though it does not conceal what is
behind. There is a strong resemblance to certain effects which
I have imagined myself to see in dreams, a characteristic of
those dreams being a sort of " tender blue radiance," 1 as I
have described it in a contemporary note. The words, " Find
the pillar in sleep," suggest that the script is aware of this
likeness to my dreams.2 Towards the end there is an un
successful effort to give in Greek verse some further description
of crystal water or self-frozen clear water, flowing from
natural springs, and finally there is a drawing of leaves, and
a lotos flower with the name " Lotos." But all this symbolism
conveys nothing whatever to my mind, and there is no trace
in this writing of any literary allusion. Since that date,
August, 1903, to the present tune, there has been no re
appearance of the " Isles of the Blest." With the exception
of the three early bits of writing which may represent the
inception of the idea of the " Isles," the five or six pieces
which unmistakeably deal with the subject were all pro
duced between the middle of January and the middle of
August, in the year 1903. I have no explanation to offer
for their occurrence at that particular time, or indeed
at all.
1 Some years ago, on Feb. 2, 1894, I recorded a dream of the
preceding night, in which I had a specially vivid and lasting sen
sation of colour, unlike anything ever actually seen by me awake.
A landscape appeared to be "illuminated with the most delicate
and lovely and divine blue light,—not cold like moonlight, but a
sort of tender radiance that casts no shadows. . . .— the whole place
was lighted — by this diffused blueness—but with none of the cold
ness of blue,—nor the haze of the sea,—nor the purple of an Italian
landscape."
2 For the connexion between the script and my dreams, see
pp. 148-155.
LIIL] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 119
(IV.) ALLUSIONS TO CHRISTIAN RITUAL OR SYMBOLISM.
Of definite allusions to distinctive Christian phrases,
symbolism, or ritual, there are very few in the script,1 a fact
not at all surprising, as I have never been interested in such
symbolism, or had any but the most superficial acquaintance
with Christian Art or Liturgy. The few cases described above
where the cross is used as a signature 2 are not included under
this head, as no religious symbol seems there intended. The
word " cross " only appears three or four times in the 306
pieces under consideration;3 once (March 29, 1901) in an
unintelligible context occurs the phrase graece loquitur emptor
redemptor cruciferens, " in Greek speaks the purchaser, redeemer,
bearing the cross"; once (Jan. 31, 1902) after the words
Crux * et praeterea nihil—an obvious variant on Vox et praeterea
nihil—the script continues, Post sempiternam mansuetudinem omnia
superoacua—in terris, " after the eternal compassion all is mere
emptiness upon the earth "—words which suggest Christian
associations, though conveying no particular meaning as they
stand. The introduction of the cross in an " Isle of the Blest "
has just been mentioned. These cases complete the appearances
of the word cross.
An unintelligible combination of what seem to be Christian
symbols appears on October 25, 1902, in a particularly
scrappy bit of writing :
Went worth made the device for him. a fish and anchor.
Give them both. Dont forget and Saint Peters keys.
This communication is signed with the S. Andrew's Cross.6
Again, the word hagiologus is twice used, once in near conjunc
tion with agnus Dei, and two of the little anecdotes related 8
suggest a possible origin in some collection of Christian stories.
!See App., p. 379, for quotations from script. 2See p. 76.
3 I do not include attempts made to describe a cross for purposes
of identification, see above, p. 110, note; below, p. 335.
4 It is possible that the "cross" here is connected with the
•"ring" of the earlier (and interrupted) script of the same day, and
is therefore not symbolic but intended to describe a verifiable
,object; see p. 302.
5 See p. 77. 6See above, p. 111.
120 Chapter VI. [PART
Once (June 27, 1901) occurs the phrase Veni Creator?- and once
(July 23, 1902) the odd combination occurs, Monsignor catholicus*
presbyter in terra non lontana ab ista rem probabit. Lontana is
subsequently corrected to longinqua. On both these last occa
sions the script was produced while I was on the Continent.
So also was a long and detailed but wholly unidentifiable
account (July 18, 1902) of a scene supposed to be viewed
from above, and to take place in a church " low with windows
small and richly jewelled, not as in our Gothic." The general
description and the words " malekite malechite," and again,
" ico " and " Moscowa" suggest a Russian church ; fragments in
Latin further suggest that some memorial or funeral service
is supposed to be going on, but there is nothing sufficiently
distinctive for identification, and there is obvious confusion
recognised by the script itself. The extract concludes with
a reference to a " tiara with floating strings not worn," 3 then
adds, " You cannot complete., leave it," and signs " Leona . . .
Pontifex Maximus."
There is one curious passage which the date of writing
!But see p. 324 for a possible explanation of the words.
2 Catholicus appears to be the title of an ecclesiastical dignitary in
the Orthodox Greek Church ; Monsignor is a title in the Roman
Catholic Church, but I can find no authority for combining them,
still less for adding the title "presbyter."
3 I find among the Oriental rites in use at Bome (Christian and
Ecclesiastical Rome, Vol. II., p. 88) one called Greco-Melkite (Greco-
Melchita), in which the celebrant wears the "high stiff biretta with
a veil pendent." The words in the script " Malekite Malechite " bear
at least as much resemblance to this name as to the green stone
Malachite, though the next sentence of the script shows that the
stone was at least present in memory. I knew nothing of the
Greco-Melkite rite till February, 1905.
There appears to be no such thing as a tiara with strings, but I
suppose that a "high stiff biretta with a veil pendent" is not very
unlike what is described and drawn in the script. I can find
nothing else in the way of ecclesiastical head-dress at all resembling
a "tiara with floating strings—not worn," except this high biretta,.
which appears to be removed, replaced, and removed again in the
course of the service. It is perhaps only an odd coincidence that
in the same piece of writing should occur the words "Malekite
Malechite." I have not been able to identify the building described
with any church where this rite is observed, nor the service
described with any special function.
Lin.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 121
and certain associations of ideas may help to account for,
though I have found no -sort of explanation for the language
used. I give the script in question :
Feb. 2, 1903, 6.15 p.m. [from 6.3] till 6.15 / read [Plato's] Symposium.
I had arranged with Mrs. Forbes to sit simultaneously urith her at 6.15.1
Cunabula cum narthece ceromatico possidet infantem deum. Hodie
sanctus Sanctorum in fideles lumen impetrat. Quis in concilio dei
gloriam spectat ? tintinnabulis ridet omne concinant cireum-
stantes.*
The peculiarities of language in the above extract have
been discussed above 2 and need not detain us here : the question
is as to the general meaning or intention of the writing.
The points referred to in the script appear to be :
(1) a cradle with an infant god ;
(2) a phial of unguent ;
(3) the day of writing;
(4) the Holy of Holies (masculine) ;
(5) light procured for the faithful ;
(6) ringing or tinkling of bells ;
(7) general festivity ;
(8) songs from the onlookers ;
(9) something (undetermined) about a Council and
beholding the glory of God.
The most definite of all these points is the third, the date,
and it will be seen that the script was written on Feb. 2,
that is, on the Festival of the Purification, or Presentation
of Christ in the Temple, " Candlemas Day." Some of the
associations with this day are certainly represented in the
script, though the opening phrases, at least at first sight, are
* Trans. " A cradle with a phial of unguent holds the infant god.
To day the Holy One of Holies asks and obtains light for the
faithful. Who in the Council of God beholds the glory ? or Who in
the Council beholds the glory of God ?—with tinklings all is joyous ;
let the bystanders too sing."
1 The words in italics were noted on the paper before the script
was obtained. The rest of the script was quite unlike the above,
and partly concerned with Mrs. Forbes ; it is considered later,
p. 294.
2 See p. 45.
122 Chapter VI. [PART
more suggestive of a Nativity1 than of the Purification. On
Candlemas Day, as its name implies, the chief ceremony in
the Roman Church is the Benediction and distribution of
wax lights. The cradle and phial of ointment would be appro
priate to a baptismal ceremony where there was anointing,2
but they have no place in the ceremonies of February 2 ; the
obtaining of light for the faithful, however, belongs rather to
Candlemas than to any other festival ; the ringing of bells,
the joyousness, and the singing are not sufficiently distinctive
to determine what ritual, if any, is aimed at. The phrase,
" with tinklings all is joyous," is not appropriately applied to
the ringing of the " Sanctus bell " in a Roman church, as
that is not part of the ceremonial, but a mere note of adver
tisement; on the other hand a friend whom I have consulted
writes that these words " bring to my mind the flabelli
(fans), with little tinkling bells carried and shaken at certain
points of Armenian and other Eastern liturgies—a very joyous
sound." The same friend adds that the words in the script
from " Hodie sanctus " to " spectat " read " just like a liturgical
fragment," but they have not been identified as such.
On the whole I am disposed to attribute the whole per
formance to vague recollections suggested by the date at the
head of the paper. It is true that the Festival of the Puri
fication is not a Nativity, but it is also true that I am
completely unlearned in matters of ritual and had certainly
never thought of distinguishing between their appropriate
ceremonial. It must be remembered that if the script
represents any impression of my subliminal, however uncon
scious, derived from my normal experience or knowledge, the
important thing to ascertain is not what are the facts as to
the ritual observed anywhere on February 2, but what my
1 Or possibly of the Epiphany, but the " light " given in answer
to prayer is to the " faithful " and hardly represents the manifesta
tion to the Gentiles. Besides the distinctive characteristics of the
Epiphany are absent; there is no "star," no "manger," no "wise
men."
2 Note, however, that the curious word ceromatico used for "oint
ment" means a mixture containing wax, and does not suggest the
oil, or chrism of oil and balsam, used for anointing. The lights
blessed on February 2 are wax lights, and the word cereus, wax,
occurs in the prayers at the blessing of candles in Roman churches.
Unverifiable ^Statements or Allusions. 123
subliminal impressions would be ; they might, no doubt, be
more accurate than my supraliminal impressions, but- would
not be infallible. I would not undertake to say that I might
not have confused the ceremonies of baptism with those of
purification and presentation in the temple.1 But to admit
that throws no light on the general question why the script
should produce such vague recollections with all the appearances
of describing a piece of ritual observance, and in language
entirely unlike any that I have ever known or seen. I had
not to my knowledge at the time of writing ever looked into
any book containing an account of the ceremonies or prayers
in use by any Church, except those in the Book of Common
Prayer.2
The next piece of writing after the above, on February 9,
1903, showed an attempt to refer to some ceremony of
baptism, but is wholly unintelligible. I quote it only to
complete the list of possible allusions to this subject, but
there is nothing distinctively Christian in it.
Sponsor cum matertera aquam in putidillo praebet. lintello tersunt
no tergunt—fj.aprvpfl 6 irapiav. /xeoTj/i/Jpios 6 Sios. ev^j^ieiTe.
Xtt/OlS KaXAlCTTJJ.
So far as it can be translated, it runs thus : " The godfather
with the aunt offers water in a little well (?) ; with a little
1 A brother of my mother's was born on February 2, and I have
all my life been familiar with a miniature painted by his mother,
representing him as a child with two doves. It is possible that
this early association of a birthday with the Feast of the Purifica
tion may be responsible for the introduction of the child and cradle
into the script. It is possible also that the notion of a birthday was
introduced by telepathic association with Mrs. Forbes. I was writing
simultaneously with her, and I found subsequently that February 2
was her husband's birthday ; so that the date February 2 undoubtedly
was associated in her mind with birthday ceremonies. See p. 249.
2 There is a resemblance between the words of the script and
(e.g.) the phrases used in an account of the Festival of the Purifi
cation given "ex m. s. Pontificalis Ecclesiae Bisuntinae" (Martene,
De Ant. Eccl. Hit.). After the words " has candelas tua benedic-
tione perfunde, quatenus fidelis populus eas in manibus portans non
solum exteriori lumine gaudeat," comes the Praefatio, ending with
the Sanctus, then the Lord's Prayer, the distribution of candles, the
hymn of Simeon, and a procession : " omnis plebs Ecclesiarum loca
cum cereis et diversis hymnis lustrantibus circumeunt."
124 Chapter VI. [PART
linen cloth (?) they rub it.1 He who is present bears
witness."
Then follows an obscure allusion in Greek to the middle of
the day, and the script ends : " Farewell ; fairest grace."
This completes the list of allusions to things apparently
appertaining to Christian ritual.
(V.) QUASI-PHILOSOPHICAL, MYSTIC, OR DIDACTIC UTTERANCES.
Besides the exhortations above described,2 there have from
time to time occurred in the script longer passages of a more
or less philosophical or didactic nature, apparently addressed
to me and intended to convey instruction. The intention is
not very well marked nor do the teachings, such as they are,
seem to be those of any recognised system. For the most
part they are vague and general in character, though there
are here and there touches of mysticism, possibly allusions to
Orphism, or to the doctrines of later Platonism. The iden
tifiable references to dogma are discussed elsewhere,3 but most
of the writings on this topic are indefinite and contain but
few allusions to ascertainable doctrines.
(1) Prayers.
On three occasions, all comparatively recent, there have
been what seem to be prayers or addresses, but it does not
appear to whom they are addressed. On June 8, 1904,
among some remarks intended to be evidential, come a few
words, asking him who shaped our hope to bestow patience
too upon those who trust in him, o tu qui spem nostrum
informasti, patientiam insuper praebere tuis tibi confitentibus.
Three months later some one, who though by nature impatient
had shown great care, is begged to remember other persons'
1The language is obscure, the words being unknown and not
regularly formed ; putidillo and lintello are obviously diminutives, but
it is not clear from what they come. Puteus is a well; linteum,
a linen cloth ; linter, a boat. Tersunt is an impossible form, cor
rected to tergunt ; it means " they rub or cleanse."
2 See p. 88. 3See p. 286.
LIII.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 125
difficulties, and reminded that only in the long lapse of time
is there hope of success :
o tu qui diligentiam adhibuisti ipse etsi natura impatiens, aliorum
angustias comprehendere debes; aevo in longinquo sola salus.
Later again, December 6, 1904, a long prayer occurs in
Latin,1 not apparently quite successfully brought off, as after
a certain confusion the script remarks in English : " But the
words are not all arranged. It is not as it should be " ;
and proceeds to give the gist of the passage. The person
addressed is not sufficiently indicated for identification, and
the statements and sentiments are not distinctive or appro
priate to any particular school. The language in one point
recalls Horace's description of the " wise man " of Stoicism,
in another perhaps Hadrian's Address to his Soul. The intro
duction " Ave " and the conclusion on the word " imperat "
suggest that there is a reminiscence of the famous and
unidentified " Imperator " known to readers of the records of
the phenomena of Mr. W. Stainton Moses and of Mrs. Piper's
trance.
(2) Philosophy.
Besides the passages referring to Neo-Platonist theories,
which are dealt with later, there are 24 pieces of writing
of the nature of philosophical disquisition, chiefly in Greek,
though both Latin and English are used. In seven of these
the language and thought are distinctly mystic, with sugges
tions of Orphism ; in five the subjects discussed take a quasi-
mathematical form, dealing with unification, likeness of parts,
and so on ; the remaining twelve are vague, enigmatic, and
often riddling in character.2
(a) Enigmatic or Oracular Sayings.
Three of these talk about rhythm, in the first case (Sept.
28, 1901) with a possibly conscious connexion between pvO/u.os
rhythm, and apiO/mos number. In the next (Jan. 4, 1902) it is
said that " Mousike endoxis," 3 whatever that may be, makes all
^ee App., p. 381. 2See App., p. 381.
3 ei/So^is is an impossible Greek form ; the word is written in
Roman character, as sometimes happens when the Greek is not
correct.
126 Chapter VI. [PART
rhythmic, and I am advised to call in others, as alone I am
not much use. On March 19, 1902, the script says that
without " something composite " the whole is not ." in good
rhythm," makes a statement about what can be " harmonised,"
and advises me not to guess but to receive what " thought 1
(TO voov/mevov) casts out." Later (May 31, 1902), "none of
all this perpetual chatter " is said " to fit together," and some
one " versed in music or the Muses " (or perhaps Musaeus 2)
is mentioned. The remarks on July 13, 1902, and June 21,
1903, contain allusions to a paper of my husband's on the
Greek habit of etymological punning, and both seem to imply
that some kind of " combination " is required. The same
idea occurs also on Jan. 30, 1903, when the script says that
what " you have chattered about " and " she has thought "
fit together, " that joint action" is better, and that "those
who would separate " 3 are not the best in this matter, though
there are occasions when separation must be made. This
piece of writing ends with a perfectly unmistakeable allusion
to a recognised theory about the Platonic ideas, that they
are numbers, apid/mol,—and that therefore arithmetic is of
advantage.
On Oct. 6, 1903, the script opens with the curious words:
AutaggeltOS fj Siavoia—KCU Si' <xirn)v iravra SifKeKocrfir]rai .*
This recalls the saying of Anaxagoras,4 very familiar to me,
that all was chaos till mind came and brought it into order,
but the word used by Anaxagoras is not Siavoia but vovs, and
the word avrayye\TOs is not used in classical Greek as far
as I can ascertain ; the dictionary quotes it from Basil.
* Trans. " Intelligence is self-announced, and through intelligence
are all things brought into order."
1i.e. Thought, regarded as the thing thought, not the active
principle, vovs.
2 Musaeus is a traditional poet or mystic of the same type as
Orpheus.
3 At the time of writing, the phrase ol \<api£ovrK " the separatists "
appeared to me to be possibly an allusion to the Homeric question.
But I have since (February, 1906) found that the phrase is applied
by commentators on Pythagorean theories to those who distinguish
vovs and ^X1! instead of identifying them.
ijv 6/iov. firo, vovs i\dOiv avra SifKO<rfJLrj<rev.
LIII.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 127
Unintelligible riddling occurs on two successive occasions, in
Latin and Greek on Nov. 30, 1904, and in Greek only on
Dec. 4; English is used twice: on Jan. 25, 1903, to express
in sounding language the sort of stuff that one knows in
dreams, and again on June 24, 1904,1 where there appears to
be a paradoxically expressed interpretation and criticism of
the precept " Forgive your enemies."
With the words " not without holiness and temperance " a
touch of mysticism apparently enters into the very frag
mentary and unintelligible remarks of Jan. 29, 1904, the
word " holy," ocno?, being specially used of the initiated in
Orphic writings ; this script again attempts to explain how
understanding of " the doctrine which brings rhythm and
harmony into everything " is to be attained.
(&) Mystic.
A mystic allusion seems to be found on March 7, 1903,
in the wheel of the master which divides time into equal
parts. And in the middle of 1904 there was apparently
an outburst of mysticism, beginning on May 26 with some
incomplete Greek verses on the subject of the forgetfulness
of the dead and the impossibility of obtaining knowledge
without the " speaking of the gods," and continuing on
June 10 with some dark remarks about the baptising of
certain disciples called, seemingly, " obscure," because what is
plain to others is obscure to them ! A mysterious " Etymo-
logicum Symbolisticum," formed on the analogy, I suppose, of
the Etymologicum Magnum, but unfortunately non-existent,
is suggested as the authority for this strange derivation, and
the script proceeds in almost wholly unintelligible language to
discourse about the opening of the gates of death, where " if
you can behold the pure2 with your eyes you will find the
mystics or initiated " " stretching tight what has been left
behind,"—whatever that may mean ! For v " things there and
things on this side are ever bound together with a golden
thread " ; then follows something more about binding and
making one.
!See below, p. 128.
2 The original puns on Kadapos, pure, and Ka6opyv, to behold.
128 Chapter VI. [PART
The next piece of writing, June 24, is again on the same
subject. After a fanciful interpretation of the words "Forgive
your enemies," the script passes into Greek, obscure enough
indeed, but not so hopelessly corrupt and fragmentary as
in some other instances. It is not easy to translate, and no
translation can convey to those who do not read Greek the
eccentricities of phrase and form ; nor can any comment of
mine, I fear, convey to strangers the extreme dissimilarity
between this passage and anything that I have consciously
thought or written. I can only repeat that I cannot con
ceive myself under any normal circumstances using the words
or entertaining the ideas of this curious fragment. Till my
attention was attracted to the subject by the script, I had
no knowledge of Orphism beyond what must be acquired in
the course of classical reading by one who has always been
interested in Platonism, the Platonism of Plato, that is to
say, and not Neo-Platonism 1 or any other imitation or modi
fication, ancient or modern, of Plato. At the time when this
script was produced I had not read the chapter on Orphism
in Miss Harrison's Prolegomena to Greek Religion, though I saw
so much of her during the writing of that book that I knew
that the subject was one of great interest to her and must
have heard something of her views. It is always difficult to
say what one knew at any particular moment, and it is
possible that my lack of interest in these subjects induces
me to underestimate the actual information which I possessed
and could have produced if it had been called for, but even
making due allowance for this I still find it impossible to
account for the phrases or the ideas in the following passage :
xusia dele Crousia /ioi/o^iAijrbs 1j 6vyarr]p- iravSeKr
dyyeAia o-e/ja<£«rii/ <rtipa.<fropos- dXA' ev ayurjiaTi Tivl riav
vu.vSfKT<ap Kal iravSiapos rb avrb Svva/Mi fl Kai OVK epyia- roiyap o~o<£oi
U.QVOI ol fiiefjivrjfievof oSroi yap pvrjfio<rvvrj ^paWes \rJ6rjs f/iar\eia rb
ira.pa.8eiy/j.a rb fpyacrriKov e5 uraxriv.
which may be thus translated :
" xusia, efface that ; Crousia, the daughter is the only love.
1 In 1901, when the script began, I had read none of the Neo-
Platonists—not Plotinus, nor Porphyry, nor Plutarch (except the
Lives), nor Macrobius, nor lamblichus. My acquaintance with these
various writers began after the middle of March, 1903, see p. 286.
LIII.] Unverifiable Statements or Allusions. 129
The all-receiving ! message of love is a yoke fellow of seraphs : 2
but in a certain consecration of disciples the all receiving
and the all giving are the same, at least in function if not
in fact. Therefore only the initiated are wise ; * for they,
using (?) memory, and filled with forgetfulness, know well the
efficient example."
What this means, or whether it means anything, I must
leave the reader to determine, but it seems to me to say
that under some circumstances (probably initiation) there is
an identification of opposites (i.e. receiving and giving) and
that in the case of the initiated a combination of opposites
(i.e. memory and forgetfulness) produces a condition of efficiency.
What is the object of this condition of efficiency the script
does not here say, but taking this passage in connexion with
others of the same type it appears to me to suggest that
one object of initiation was to enable the dead to communicate
with the living. I am not aware whether any such explanation
has ever been suggested by writers on the subject of Orphism,
That the waters of Mnemosyne, or Memory, play a part in Orphic
rites was certainly known to me at the time that this script
was produced, and a speculative fancy might conceive that
the dead who remembered were more likely to communicate
with the living than the dead who forgot, but I have never
to my knowledge entertained any such speculation, nor indeed
any other speculation, on the effect of initiation in Orphic
or other mysteries.
though perfectly intelligible is not extant ; SeKTup for
the common form SSKTJJS is used by Aeschylus, Eum. 204, and
srai/SeKTTjs exists.
2 Note the pun in the original; cmpd^opos literally "a trace-
horse," i.e. fastened beside the yoked pair by a rope, a-epd^fa-iv is
apparently meant for a dat. pi. of the Hebrew word " seraph."
3 The phrase o-o<£o! /xdvoi oi /«/iv>j/u.«i/oi is appropriate enough if Dr.
Adam's suggestion (Ed. of Plato's Republic, Vol. II., p. 379) is accepted
that 01 o-o<£oi was a " recognised way of describing the representa
tives of the Orphic brotherhood." But I was not acquainted at the
time when the script was produced with this view, which I found
only in March, 1905, when study of this feature of the script
led me, for the first time, to consult some authorities on Orphism.
Dr. Adam's Edition of the Republic, was, however, in our house in
November, 1902, and as I cut the leaves of the book on its arrival
I may have seen, without noticing, the passage in question.
I
130 . : , Chapter VI. [PART
Again, on August 21, 1904, an unsuccessful attempt to
produce evidential matter relating to my husband was pre
ceded and followed by mystical allusions. The script began
by saying in Greek that " our Terpsichore " rejoices without
the lyre, and the listeners, themselves songsters,1 strike the
lyre, not with hands but with the spirit. These remarks
are to be " grasped and when grasped handed back ; thereby
shall the disciples receive them though they know not their
master." After the evidential attempt in English the script
returns in Latin to the same idea of lyreless music and
song :
Now there returns the voice of that choir singing without a
lyre, celebrating in a fashion unintelligible to you but delightful to
themselves the glory of all and the whole. When we hear this
we must leave meetings with mortal men and seek the eternal
communion.
The idea of songs unaccompanied by the lyre, which
apparently underlies both parts of the script, has no associa
tions for me and, as far as I know, no revived reminiscence
is traceable in this writing. Nor have I found any parallel
to it in such mystical writings as I am acquainted with.
The next piece of mysticism occurred on Oct. 12, 1904,
when after a reference to " Orotava " 2 and a statement that
I once knew what that meant, there followed a description
in Latin of the coming to Charon's ferry of some one who
returned again to his comrades in the realms above. The
personage is not named nor sufficiently described ; he is a
singer whose " more than mortal voice " pleases the living
and the dead, and whose songs form " as it were a bridge
from bank to bank." 3 Then follows a curious little bit of
mysticism telling how, while the river flows, the banks are
1 The script has doiScu, songs, but no doubt doifioi, bards, is intended.
The Greek is not altogether classical but there seems no doubt about
its meaning.
"See p. 117.
3 Two persons at once suggest themselves as the originals for the
singer, Orpheus and Virgil, the Orpheus of classical story and the
Virgil of the Sixth Aeneid and the . Divina Commedia. But
the expressions in the script do not exactly correspond with any
of the famous " Descents into Hell."
LIU.] Unverifidble Statements or Allusions. 131
apart, but when the river plunges into the deep sea, the
banks, though at first they separate in opposite directions, at
last come curving round the water they confine, and so are
no longer opposite but the same.1 The idea seems again to
be the ultimate identity of opposites, as in the script of
June 24, 1904, just quoted.
But whether the writing on June 24, 1904 intended or not
to imply that initiation made communication possible between
the dead and the living, by Jan. 24, 1905,2 the scribe was
quite clear on this point :
Only the initiated are present with their friends ; the uninitiated
ever wander around tombs and places of burial, terrifying those who
are there and not benefitting themselves.
Then, apparently conscious that some of the phrases used are
reminiscent of the Phaedo,3 it adds :
All such things as this have long ago been written about in books ;
but whether the tales are told with understanding or in foolishness
it is for wise men to determine.
(c) Quasi-Mathematical disquisitions.
On five occasions when the phraseology of the script is
more arithmetical than philosophic, the language used is
Greek, and it is possible that some Platonic reminiscence
lies behind the writing, though the strange expressions in
it are undoubtedly original and not even in form like the
words of Plato. The writings are of no interest except perhaps
linguistically. Once, on Nov. 26, 1902, there is possibly
a revived memory of Plato's Philebus and at the same time
an attempt at a cross-correspondence between my script and
1 There is perhaps another touch of mysticism in the introduction
of the number 7 ; " seven-foot boots " are to be put on and the
way must be sought and sought again "three and four times, ter
et quater. Macrobius, Somn. I. 6. 44 (see below, p. 287) sees in
"Virgil's ter quaterque beati a reference to the Pythagorean " universal
Seven."
2 The script of January 1905 falls outside the period dealt with
in this paper, but the passage in question is quoted as belonging
to the series here described.
3 See Plato, Phaedo, 81 D, 1j TOIOVTTJ ^vx^ . . . irepl ra fjiVT^fiard re
al TOVS ra<f>ovs Kv\iv&ov/ievr], irepl a Sij /cai a><f>0rj S.TTO.
132 Chapter VI. [PART
that of Mrs. Forbes,1 but no evidential or verifiable matter
appears in the other quasi-mathematical disquisitions concerning
" one and two " or the " properties of triangles " or " parts
of likes."
The touches of Neo-Platonism in the script, being a veri
fiable and not general topic, are dealt with later.2 Here
ends the description of the general characteristics of the
script ; the second part of this paper treats of such points
as lend themselves to corroboration, refutation, or at least
explanation.
1 See pp. 144, 243. 2 See p. 286.
LIII.] Reminiscences, etc. 133
PART II.
VERIFIABLE MATTER CONTAINED IN THE SCRIPT.
CHAPTER VII.
REMINISCENCES AND CONNEXION WITH DREAMS, ETC.
WE now leave the description of the nature of the script and
of the general topics introduced and come to the considera
tion of the " evidential " value of the information contained in
the script, without considering for the present to what source
or agency the evidence points. This second part of the paper
deals with such portions of the script as are by their very nature
able to be verified, refuted, or at the very least connected with
definite occurrences. Where, for instance, statements are made
in the script about persons named or otherwise identified,
or when information as to past or forthcoming events of a
definite nature is contained in it, it is at least possible to
ascertain whether or not the statements are correct, and if
correct, how far information previously and consciously in my
possession can account for them.
On this latter point, I can only say that I have endeavoured
to ascertain and to make clear to my reader the extent of
my conscious knowledge on all topics dealt with in this script,
but it is of course possible that in many cases my subliminal
extended beyond my supraliminal knowledge and that this may
account for some of the apparently evidential statements. It
will be seen, however, that there are other instances where
the evidence for supernormal acquisition of knowledge does not
rest on my own impressions alone, but is corroborated by
other persons.
134 Chapter VII. [PART
Against error arising from misdating of the script or mis-
recollection of its contents precautions have been taken by
the method pursued for its preservation. This method has
been described above. But I repeat some particulars here
before discussing any of the topics where verification becomes
possible, in order that the conditions and external corroboration
may be perfectly clear.
Precautions observed.
The first piece of fluent writing was obtained, as stated
above, on March 5, 1901. On March 11 I copied that
piece as well as pieces obtained on March 6, 8, and 9,
into a book, prefacing them with a short statement about
previous unsuccessful efforts earlier in the year. From that
time onwards I have always copied each piece of writing
into a book, generally within twenty-four hours after it had
been obtained, though occasionally, when I have been away
from home and not had the book with me, there has been a
longer interval. The date of the copying has always been entered
at the tune of copying. The script is copied on to the right-
hand pages in these MS. books, and on the left-hand
pages it has been my practice to add any comments or infor
mation subsequently obtained which seemed likely to bear on
the contents of the script. Such comments are always dated.
At the beginning it was my practice to show the
original writings—in pencil on large sheets of paper—to my
husband as soon after they were written as was possible :
they were then locked in my writing-table. Some of the
originals and the book of copies were shown to certain other
persons; for instance, Mrs. Forbes, on November 14, 1901,
saw a few originals ; both originals and copies were seen by
Mr. Piddington in November, 1901, and by Sir Oliver
Lodge in December, 1901. From time to time extracts
have been sent to Dr. Hodgson, Mrs. Sidgwick, and other
persons whom they were thought to concern, notes being
made by me as to what was sent. In the summer of 1902,
while I was abroad and therefore not copying regularly into
the book, I showed some of the originals to Miss Jane Harrison,
who was with us, as well as to my husband, and she has
dated and initialed them.
LIII.]. Reminiscences, etc. 135
In some other cases, where it seemed that the date of pro
duction might be of importance, I obtained the attestation
of others, chiefly of Mr. Piddington. Finally, in December,
1902, as it appeared that there might be some premonitory
value in the script, it was arranged, to obviate the possibility
of tampering on my part with originals or copies, that all
existing originals should be sent to Sir Oliver Lodge, and
that thenceforth I should send to him, after taking a copy
for my own use, each original in an envelope dated and posted
by me, and filed by him, usually unopened, for future reference.1
Accordingly, on December 15, 1902, I sent to Sir Oliver Lodge
all originals down to and including the script of Oct. 25, 1902,
the originals from Oct. 25 to Dec. 9, 1902 being at that time
in the charge of Miss Johnson. The next piece of writing, pro
duced on Dec. 14, was sent on the day of its production to
Sir Oliver Lodge, and since then I have regularly sent to
him, very shortly after production, all the original writings,
except in one or two cases where in pursuance of an experi
ment it has been arranged for the originals to go to some
one else.2
Classification of topics.
The verifiable topics may be variously classified. The
greater part refer to specified persons, living and dead,
and in many cases claim to give information about the
doings or thoughts of the living, or about incidents connected
with the dead, and not known to myself. But I should
be giving a thoroughly false idea of the contents of the script
1 The envelopes have in some instances been opened, at my request,
-when I wished the contents to be communicated to Sir Oliver Lodge.
2 In all cases before Dec. 14, 1902, where the date of the script
is of importance in estimating the value of its contents, any cor-
roboration of its authenticity that can be given will be noted; in
the case of the later script this will not be done, as the postmarks
and the corroboration of Sir Oliver Lodge show the latest date
at which access to the originals could have been had by me. In
the absence of statements to the contrary it may be assumed that
.all originals since Dec. 14, 1902, were beyond my control within
48 hours after the date at which they were produced. In the
Appendix will be found lists of corroborative documents where the
,exact chronological sequence is of special importance.
136 Chapter VII. [PART
if I allowed it to be supposed that the greater part, even
of this verifiable matter, appears in the form of communications
from supposed discarnate spirits. The information is for the
most part stated without any colour other than is made
inevitable by the personal form of the phraseology. " Tell So
and So," or more frequently, " Some one ought to remember
this " : such are the phrases in common use. Often the
incident is related without any suggestion of its connexion
with other portions of the script or any clue to its meaning ;
in more than one instance of the apparent knowledge by the
scribe of facts unknown to me, and subsequently ascertained
to be correct, the clue to the verification has been obtained
only by what seems the merest accident. It is of course
possible that in some cases a clue has been missed.
As I have said above, attempts at rigid and exclusive
classification seem premature, but it will be convenient to treat
of the verifiable incidents in classes, grouping together those
that are of the same general type. After describing in this
chapter those that seem to concern my own personality, and are
connected with my own thoughts, memories, or dreams, and after
saying something of a series of experiments carried out, with or
without my knowledge, by various specified persons,1 I shall go
on to the cases where " messages " to or about living people 2
occur, taking for separate discussion those referring to other
automatic writers 3 or " sensitives " of any kind. In some
cases the object aimed at seems to have been not a " message,"
evidential or otherwise, to a particular person or group, but
the production of statements normally unknown or unknow
able at the date of writing but subsequently verifiable. These
form a class apart and will be considered4 when the com
munications grouped round persons have been described.
That an intimate connexion exists between the contents of
the automatic writing and my own mind has been profusely
illustrated in the earlier part of this paper; it is shown in
the languages used, in quotations from authors known to
me, in allusions to literary and other subjects familiar to me,
and in many other ways. Efforts to trace some of the con-
!See Chapter VIII. 2 Chapter IX.
3 Chapters X. and XI. 'Chapters XII. and XIII.
LIII.] Reminiscences, etc. 137
nexions in detail have been made in discussing those " general
topics" which deal with imaginary descriptions or philosophical
disquisitions.1 But besides these there are a few cases where
the allusions are definite, and the manner of expression
seems to show that the script is referring to my own actual
knowledge, exactly as a third person might do ; there are
also some cases where the script shows revived memories
beyond the range of my conscious recollection ; there are a
few traces of reference to things thought of by me just
before writing ; and there are some traceable connexions
between my dreams and the automatic writing. It seems
desirable to deal with these four types before going on to
other kinds of verifiable matter.
(1) Allusions to things known to the writer.
The greater number of these have already been mentioned
in describing the quotations and other literary allusions,
but a few remain to be noted. The script seems specially
familiar with a paper written by my husband and read by
me before our marriage ; it was published in the Journal of
Philology in 1880, and dealt with the question of "divination"
in names and their magical interpretation among the Greeks.
The paper suggested that in some cases the old verb -roTrav
" to conjecture " or " divine," had been in our manuscripts
replaced by the common phrase TO TTOV, " the whole." The
paper was well known to me some twenty-five years ago, but
has not been specially recalled to my mind recently, and I did
not understand the first reference to it until it was pointed
out to me. On April 8, 1901, in the midst of almost
unintelligible phrases in Latin and Greek, came the following :
sume superponenti ideam iravrl Tpoiry KOI iravra TOTTO) Hellen-
istice Helenen cur non omnia. rides 1 et ego. sed necte semper.
Finis coronat opus. *
One of the names discussed in the paper was that of Helen
and it was also suggested that confusion between TO'TTOJ and
the common word rpoVo? might in part account for the
* Trans. " Take—for me superposing (?)—a shape in every mode and
I divine all things. Hellenistically Helen ; why not all things ? You
smile ? So do I, but go on weaving. The end crowns the work."
1 See Chapter VI,
138 Chapter VII. [PART
disappearance in our MSS. of the word TO'TTO? in the sense
required. The allusion to my husband's paper is therefore
clear, and it seems probable that sume superponenti ideam is
meant to suggest an interpretation by re-arrangement.
On two subsequent occasions reference was made to the
same subject, each time in the course of some quasi-
philosophical but not very intelligible observations. The only
clear point is that in each case the collaboration of some
other person is required. Thus on July 13, 1902, it is
suggested that " he himself " is also guessing with you, vvvvro-
X«£ef Ka' avTo?, and on June 21, 1903, after a reference to
a phrase in the TOTTJ; paper, it is said " alone you are not
able but with another, even if he does not act with you." !
The only other resemblance between these two pieces is that
both were written abroad, the first in the Swiss Alps, the
second on the Lake of Lucerne, and on each occasion there
seems reason to attribute to the script telepathic connexion
with friends of mine, very slight in one case, but distinct
in the other.2 On neither of these occasions does there
appear to be any appropriateness in the allusion to my
husband or to his paper.
On one other occasion reference was made to a phrase
used in a technical sense by the members of a society to
which my husband belongs, but conveying no meaning to the
general reader. The phrase had no meaning to me, till my
husband mentioned the associations that it had for him, and
I cannot at this day recall ever having heard it. But as
I have known many members of the society, it is impossible
to claim this as showing supernormal knowledge on the part
of the script. The script apparently so intended it ; it gives
the phrase, then adds :
ask your husband what that means. Henry Sidgwick would
have known—Write it large. (The phrase is repeated.) That will
convince him that it is not you who write—no other words.
" (the phrase) " suffices. It is known to Gurney too—and they
will recognise.
Then follows the name of another member of the society.
vYj OVK Si'vdcrai iiAAa <rvv erepw Kaiirep ov crvfnrpaa-(rovri.
2 See pp. 183, 233.
LIII.] Reminiscences, etc. 139
But in the impossibility of proving that I had not heard
the phrase, none of this is likely to ' convince ' any one that
the allusion was not due to a reminiscence of my own. The
three names mentioned are those of persons who would have
known the phrase, and whom I should associate with the
phrase, granted that I knew it, as they were all members
of the society in question.
(2) Allusions to things recently thought of by the ivriter.
I have throughout these four years watched carefully to
see if in the automatic writing, as often in dreams, I could
trace reminiscences of recent events or impressions. But to
my surprise the number of such cases is exceedingly rare.
In the whole 306 pieces of writing I can find only five
occasions where the writing distinctly refers to something that
had occurred shortly before its production. The first occasion
was on May 29, 1901, when the name of a friend, about
whom we had felt some anxiety, occurred in the script, with
statements that grossly exaggerated a fleeting impression of
my own. It concluded with the words :
It is not fraud, not you, you do not do it. It is I. That's
all to-day.
The writing was obtained in the train on my way down
from town, soon after eight p.m. ; I noted at the time that
at six o'clock something had occurred which suggested the name
with which the script began, and that the whole thing was
"an exaggerated reproduction of what has lately occasionally
been in my mind, especially on Sunday last," the 26th May.
I further noted that, contrary to the usual custom, " I was
quite aware of what I was writing, it came in phrases,"
whereas, as I have said, the automatic script usually presents
itself to me in words and I have no general impression
whatever of its meaning, as each word vanishes while I am
endeavouring to catch the next. In fact on this occasion, my
own " impression throughout was that I myself—not my hand—
was writing, hence perhaps the remarks at the end." This is
the only occasion on which anything of this kind has occurred,
or when I have had an impression of the absolute lack of
genuineness of the writing ; the impression of its ' genuineness '
140 Chapter VII. [PART
varies from less to more, but this is the only piece for which,
in spite of the protest of the scribe,1 I still seem to myself
to be responsible.
On another occasion2 Italian words were obtained in the
script at 6.30 on the afternoon of a day on which my
husband had gone to town to give a lecture to the Dante
Society. The scribe seems to have been aware of my pre
occupation with Italian and to have resented it. I was
writing in pursuance of an experiment and holding in the
left hand a sealed envelope of which I was to endeavour to
read the contents.3 The day before it had suggested " Con-
stantia," " dementia," and this evening it began with " Olivia,"
then wrote :
This is not the thing you want—wait for that. Something
says Italian words to-night, sempre cosi bene sta. it confuses.—
In tanto diletto d'amor. you dont know the words.
On Aug. 31, 1903, two days after I had heard of the
death of a friend, her initials appeared at the beginning of
the next automatic writing, the first obtained since her
death ; nothing further referring to her has occurred in the
script, and these initials, which were written in a hand
somewhat recalling hers, though not a close imitation, were no
doubt due to the thoughts that had filled my mind during
the preceding days.
On June 21, 1902, the script made an allusion to something
on which my husband was engaged at the time. On June 20
or 21 he began to write an Essay 4 on a play of Euripides, of
which I saw the title, namely, " A Soul's Tragedy." I was
familiar with the line which he was taking in the Essay, but
the title was new to me and interested me. An important
personage in his view of the play is Lyssa (Madness), and the
script produced the following unmistakeable reference to the
Essay :
Not Luria but Lyssa gives the keynote he must complete.
It is better than the Editing.
!For the meaning of the word 'scribe' as used in this paper see
above, notes to pages 14 and 67.
2 See p. 31. 3The word was 'Fuchsia,' see p. 168.
4 Since published.
LIII.] Reminiscences, etc. 141
The script is signed 1 with what are probably intended for
the initials of my husband's former Head Master, the late
Archbishop Benson, but the phrase used, with its allusion to
Browning's poems, Luria, and A Soul's Tragedy, is clearly
derived from my own recently acquired knowledge of the
proposed title of my husband's Essay.
The last of these instances is a little more complex. I
seem to have had an " impression " about a stranger, probably
derived from subconscious observation and inference, then to
have elaborated the impression, and finally to have repre
sented it in the script, but so far as the statements in the
script could be checked, they were incorrect. I relate the
incident in detail, as it throws light on the way in which
some at least of the writing is produced. But it is the
only case of its kind that I have observed, though possibly
a parallel to it may be found in one of the cases related
below,2 where the script recalled a dream impression.
In the summer of 1902 I was staying at the Riffel Alp,
near Zermatt, and on July 1 at breakfast I had a sudden
impression about a girl in the hotel, who had arrived a day
or two before, and whom I had seen three or four times. I
had not spoken to her. As I sat at the table, not looking at
her, or thinking of her, it suddenly flashed across me that
she was engaged, and that there was some tragedy about the
engagement. The impression was so vivid that I wondered
how I could ascertain whether or not it were correct. I
did not know the girl's name. It then occurred to me that
I could at least check the impression as to her engagement
by seeing whether she wore a ring. I looked and found that
on the third finger of the left hand she was wearing two rings :
one was a gold ring with something circular, not (I think) a
jewel, in the centre, and over that one she wore a broad
chain ring in gold, such as a man might wear on his little
finger. I therefore thought it probable that I had sub
consciously observed the rings and inferred that she was
engaged, but that she had lost her lover and was wearing
a ring of his as well as her own.
On the evening of the same day, as I sat after dinner on
the terrace of the hotel, I had the sudden impression that
^ee p. 302. 2See p. 153.
142 Chapter VII. [PART
the man had been killed in the South African war, and, as
she came on to the terrace, I had the further impression of
seeing over her shoulder the face of a man with melancholy
dark eyes. That night when I wrote automatically the script
began as follows :
Ricochet shot from a shell—and died in hospital. He was on
horseback, it was two years or more ago. Frank was the name. Large
dark eyes and a pale face with a moustache but no other hair on his
face. The moustache not a dark brown. A tall man with a droop
about the shoulders.
There was considerable difficulty in checking these state
ments, as we knew nothing of the girl in question or her
friends. However, a friend of mine asked another lady staying
at the hotel whether she knew or could find out anything
about the girl. In this way we learnt that the girl was
at the time engaged to a man then in the Mounted Consta
bulary at the Gape, and expected home in about three
weeks. Nothing could be ascertained ; as to his name or his
personal appearance. But it was quite clear that the script
was incorrect in saying that he had died two years ago, and
there seems no reason to suppose that any real knowledge
of the circumstances was contributed by the script, or that
any part of the impression was correct, except such as might
have been derived from observation of the ring.1
(3) Revived memories; emergence in the script of knoivledge
not voluntarily recoverable.
Perhaps the first instance of a revived memory appears in
the curious signature of a very early piece of writing, March
15th, 1901. The knowledge of which this may be a remi
niscence was certainly not consciously possessed by me, and
it was only three or four years after the production of the
writing that I found any meaning for the odd phrase.
The script, which is given in the Appendix, p. 342, ended
with the words Pollux Gappadocus ponet tigillum. The intention
is probably to represent the signatory. Sigillum occurs else
where in the early script in the sense of a seal,2 but who
1 I have never heard anything further of the lady concerned.
2 See April 20th, 1901, "cerata sigilla"; Aug. 28, 1901, "signa
sigillo."
LIII.] Reminiscences, etc. 143
was intended by the Cappadocian Pollux ? The juxtaposition
of Pollux and Cappadocia conveyed nothing to me and recalled
no associations.
But in October, 1904, on re-reading Ibsen's play about
Julian, Kaiser und Galilaer,1 which I had read somewhere
about 1895, I found that he makes Julian call Gregory
Nazianzen and Basil of Ctesarea the Castor and Pollux of
Cappadocia. Whether he has any authority for so doing I
have not discovered ; the writer of Gregory's biography in
Migne's Patrologion compares the friends with Orestes and
Pylades, and Gregory himself, in his commendation of Basil,2
says that there seemed one soul for both, but two bodies. But
the allusion in Ibsen is sufficient to explain the conjunction
of the two words and the emergence of the Cappadocian
Pollux in my script.
Perhaps the first certain emergence of knowledge possessed
but not at the moment remembered by me was on Oct. 26,
1901. The day before, Mr. Piddington, whom I had seen
at a meeting of the S.P.R. Council in town, had suggested
that I should try an experiment in connexion with an automatic
writer known to him but not to me. I was to suggest to
the " scribe " a word, with the view of getting it reproduced
by the other lady. I have no means of communicating with
the " scribe " other than fixing my mind in the course of
the day on any subject in which I am interested, and
accordingly I did this on the 25th and again on the 26th.
In the evening of Oct. 26 the script apparently made an
effort to give the name of the saint whose festival was on
Oct. 25, the day when the experiment had been suggested.
Such at least seems the best available explanation of what
was written :
Grasp it now Graspian—and another like the first. It is not
you—placement or pleasement is a word that belongs to him, cited
extraordinary. s. Crispin's day recently that is a date—not
for you.
Then followed the " Caristian story " described above.3
1 I read the play in the German translation.
2 In Laud. Bos. M. Chap. XX. 'See p. 111.
144 Chapter VII. [PART
The remarks are not very intelligible, but whatever the
intention may have been, it is clear that there is a reference
to the Saints Crispin and Crispian and their recent festival.
I have a very scant knowledge of Saints' days, but I knew
that these saints were the saints of Agincourt, and that
Agincourt was fought in October. I found on investigation
that their festival is Oct. 25, the day preceding their appear
ance in the script, and I have little doubt that this appearance
represents a piece of knowledge on my part irrecoverable by
ordinary methods : I may be presumed to have known at some
time the date of the battle of Agincourt, though I could not
recall it by conscious effort.
Another case in which there may be traces of a revived
memory, in this case of a passage in Virgil, occurred on
Feb. 27, 1902. But the script is so confused that the
combination of elements may easily be wholly fortuitous.
The incident is not related in detail and is only mentioned
here for the sake of completeness.
On Nov. 26, 1902, there seems to emerge in the script
a reminiscence of a passage in Plato's Dialogue, Philebus, very
familiar to me in 1879 and 1880, but not looked at since.
The passage of the script is as follows :
TI TTOT' ovo/mf«s ; ovriva—<rvvapi6fir]TW rb \6yeiov—aXAos TIS
b o\ov. <rv Sf OVK eva fi6vrj fvl irpo<rire\a£eiv Svvaurcu.
The Greek is full of errors. a-vvapiO/mijTw is a false form,
but the word intended (a-wapiO/mfirai) seems fairly obvious.
\6yeiov is more difficult. The accent is not right if the word
is to mean \oyelov, a stage ; moreover the context seems in
appropriate to that meaning and rather suggests some connexion
with \6yos, " reason," e.g. \oyiov the noun " oracle," or \6yiov
the adjective neuter " possessing Xoyo?." eva and evl pro
bably mean " one," i.e. one in number. It may perhaps be thus
translated : " What do you name ? No one. Let him include
the logeion(T) some one else will learn the whole. But you
unaided are not able to bring one and one together."
It is not very clear, but neither in my recollection
is the dialogue which I believe it to reproduce. Some
points stand out in the script : there is a question of learn
ing about a whole, and of not leaving something out, and
Lin.] Reminiscences, etc. 145
some one is reproached with failure in the elementary
process of putting one to one. The script recalled nothing
whatever to my mind, but I was interested in the unusual
compound verb a-vvapiOfieiv, and looked it up in Liddell and
Scott's Lexicon. I there found a reference to Plato's Philebus,
the only one of the four or five passages mentioned in
the Lexicon which I was certain that I had read. I turned
to the passage in the Philebiis (23 D). Socrates is proceeding
to make a complete classification of " things that are," and
says that they fall under three heads, (1) the unlimited
{Platonic matter),1 aTreipov; (2) the principle of limit (ideas),
Trepas ; and (3) combination of the two (phenomenal world),
TO £yniu<ry6fievov ; at this point the speaker interrupts him
self with the remark that he is a ridiculously incompetent
classifier and reckoner, since he has forgotten that a fourth
class is necessary, namely, the cause of the combination,
(probably to be identified with mind), am'a r^? /uu£ea>s.
Here then is something very like what was suggested in
the script,—an attempt to make a classification of a whole ;
a reminder not to leave out something, viz., intelligence, as
a cause ; a reproach to some one for failing in the first
principles of his art. Taken together with the use of the
rare word " to reckon along with," (rvvapiOfj.fiv, I think there
can be no doubt that this script represents the emergence
of a piece of knowledge once undoubtedly possessed by me,
but quite irrecoverable by any ordinary conscious process.
On May 14, 1904, another piece of information about a
passage of Plato seems to have emerged. On May 13 it had
been suggested as an experiment that I should try to find
what were certain Greek words written on a sheet of paper
containing ' tips ' for the Classical Tripos and known only to
the friend who proposed the test.2 The script of May 13 pro
fessed its intention of getting the words on the next day, and
on May 14, wrote as follows:
jie6v<r&ev /j.O.\' fixf>povias 6 <r<a<f>p6v
, OVK fcrff OTTWS pj Tavra rrj /iv^/ig (level.
'Such, at least, is the interpretation noted by me in 1879.
2 See p. 175.
146 Chapter VII. [PART
They begin the dialogue—the story—Look at that. Ad-yos
Siavoia vovs
SiavoLa
**
The words " Universal soul is immortal " are, as the script
says and as I knew at once, the opening words of the famous
myth in the Pkaedrus in which the soul is compared with a
charioteer driving a pair of horses. This myth I know well ;
I read it for the first time about 1878. But neither my
recollections nor a reference to the dialogue threw any light
on the curious arrangement of words following the allusion,
the "lists," in fact, which seem to have puzzled the scribe as
much as they puzzled me. I looked up the notes in
Thompson's Edition in which I read the dialogue first, but
which I have not used since. But still I found nothing.
The note however on the words Traa-a ^i>x^ aOavaros referred
me to an excursus by Thompson at the end of his book, and
there on p. 165, in a note on the explanation of the Allegory
of the Phaedrus I found the following :
" This is one of the dichotomies which Plato so greatly
affected. We have—
TO Xdyov f\ov rb a\oyov
vovs Bidvoial 6v/nbs iiri6v/j.ia."
Any one who will compare Thompson's dichotomy and the
script, will I think at once admit the resemblance ; the sug
gestion that something should be written which was in Greek
and associated with the Classical Tripos seems to have caused
this emergence from my mind of something which it is almost
certain I had read in the course of my own preparation for the
* Trans. "The temperate is very wisely drunk (?)
Sophistic.
Universal soul is immortal; it is impossible that this does not
abide in your memory."
LIII.] Reminiscences, etc. 147
Classical Tripos, but which it is equally certain that I could
not consciously have reproduced.
The last of these cases occurred on May 26, 1904. The
words of the script are :
The King and the Book. Pompilia's grave is described, read
that—and find the words there, five words together, the child
mother.
The script was apparently still engaged in the quest for
the words at the top of the sheet of ' tips,' which on May
13, 1904, it had said were five in number. I had no
recollection of there being any description in the Ring and the
Book of Pompilia's grave, but on referring to the poem I
found that she expresses the hope (Pompilia, 1. 27) that
she will be buried in the church of San Lorenzo in Lucina,
—her " own particular place," as all readers of the poem will
remember—and certainly her body was exposed there (Guido,
second narrative, 1. 1295). Just before the description of the
church her names are given ; they are five in number,
Francesca Camilla Vittoria Angela Pompilia, and their number
is emphasised by the speaker in another place, " my own five
saints" (Pomp., 1. 107).
I had no conscious recollection at the moment of reading
the script that Pompilia had any other name or that anything
was said in the poem about her burying, but it is likely
that the desire of my subliminal self to find five unknown
words revived a recollection of Pompilia's five names mentioned
in connexion with the church where she had been baptised
and hoped to be buried. There is no reason to suppose that
the allusion to Pompilia has any connexion with the problem
set before the script, and I subsequently ascertained that
the required words were not five in number. Perhaps, how
ever, the source of the allusion in the script of this day to
Browning's poem is to be found in another association of ideas.
On reference to the Roman Calendar1 I find that May 26th
is the date of the annual feast commemorating the consecration
of the church of San Lorenzo in Lucina, and it seems most
unlikely that the allusion in the script on that very day to
" Pompilia's grave " is purely accidental coincidence. I visited
1 See Handbook to Christ, and Ecd. Rome, vol. ii. p. 330.
148 Chapter VII. [PART
the church of San Lorenzo in Lucina when I was in Rome
in 1891, and may have seen there or elsewhere a notice of
the date of the commemorative festival. But no such knowledge
was consciously possessed by me. Nor in fact do I associate
with churches any special days other than the days connected
with their patron saints. Investigation of the Roman Calendar
was suggested to me, when revising this paper for press, as
it appeared that on several occasions1 the contents of the
script were determined by associations with the dates on which
they were obtained.
•
(4) Connexion with dreams.
An obvious point for consideration is whether any con
nexion can be traced between the automatic writing and my
dreams, and if so what is the nature of that connexion and
the frequency of its occurrence. I am not a constant
dreamer, that is to say, the dreams which I remember on
waking are not many. Every one is familiar with the
experience of having a dream recalled by some event in the
succeeding day, and this doubtless implies that other dream-
impressions not recalled by events of the day remain sub
merged. But such an experience is not common with me
and the whole number of my remembered dreams is small.
I have, however, all my life had occasional vivid impressions
in sleep, differing altogether from the ordinary dream into
which familiar persons or objects enter in a more or less
confused way. It has been my habit for the past fifteen
or sixteen years2 to record these vivid dream-impressions
immediately after their occurrence, distinguishing in particular
a certain class of them as " what I call my real dreams." The
chief characteristic which marks these " real " dreams is the
sensation of reality which accompanies them, and the durability
of the impression left on waking ; the effect on waking is as
though I had come from a world of reality into a world of
appearances, and this effect often lasts through the whole of
the following day, so that I have a curious sense through all
my ordinary occupations of playing a " pretence game," while
!See pp. 120, 143, 314.
2 See App., p. 385, for dates of dreams so recorded.
LIII.] Reminiscences, etc.
my real self is occupied somewhere else. Another character
istic of these " real " dreams is the intensity of the sensations
experienced in them. I have had more vivid sensations of
colour and sound in dream than I have ever had in waking
hours, and I have had occasionally other sensations difficult
to describe : they are not synaesthetic, that is, they do not
seem to involve confusions or combinations of two senses
ordinarily distinct, but they seem to present a sensation by
some unusual channel. An illustration will perhaps explain
more clearly what I mean.
I do not in sleep, any more than in waking, possess the
faculty of " coloured audition " ; as far as I am aware, my
physical sensations in sleep, though sometimes intensified,
remain of the same type as they are in waking hours ; I
hear sounds, I see forms and colours, once at least I smelt
a strong odour, and the sense of touch is constantly exercised
in dreams in the usual manner. But more than once in a
dream I have seemed to obtain a mental impression by means
of a physical sensation not directly suggesting it, to learn for
instance by touching a person what are his thoughts or what
is his nature. The physical sensation which accompanies the
acquisition of that knowledge is very marked and often
vividly present some hours after waking.
Between February, 1894, and the beginning of the
automatic writing I find recorded in my notes six of
these " real " dreams, and a note in the record of the first
shows that though this is the first recorded it is not the
first experienced. Four other dreams in that period are
recorded as very vivid but not " real." The habit, there
fore, of " real " dreaming was established, and noted by me,
before the inception of the automatic script. With this pre
liminary note as to the nature of my dreams, I pass to the
question of the connexion between them and the automatic
writing. There seem to be in all eight cases in which
some connexion can be traced and I propose to relate these
in detail.1
(a) On April 19, 1901, I had been up to town for a
meeting of the S.P.R., and just before leaving London by
1 See App., p. 386, for further account of " real " dreams and
corresponding script.
150 Chapter VII. [PAKT
the evening train I felt that it was so likely that I should
want to write automatically on my way home that I bought
a substantial weekly paper to serve as writing-desk. But
when the compartment in which I was travelling filled with
people I gave up the idea and read. Suddenly I felt my
right arm numb, the fourth and fifth fingers tingled, and I
took paper and pencil, in spite of the audience. The numb
ness passed from the fourth finger after I had written two
or three words but remained in the little finger till after
I had reached home. The contents of the script thus pro
duced are described later ; 1 it is the physical sensation that
is emphasised here, in view of the sequel.
On the succeeding night, April 19, I had one of the "real"
dreams above described, and noted it at 8.30 a.m. on April 20.
In this dream, as once some years before,2 the sense of reality
was apparently produced by a very marked sensation of touch.
A previous feeling of uncertainty was removed by the con
tact between my right arm from wrist to elbow and the
left arm of a person in my dream. I also had in this dream,
as I have had on other occasions, the impression of com
municating with my companion without words, though words
were passing at the time between us on other subjects. So
strong was the feeling in my arm produced by this dream-
touch that I woke " almost thinking I still felt it," and was
sufficiently awake to investigate whether there was any
physical sensation in my arm to account for this impression.
But there was none. I slept again and through that later
sleep as throughout the next day, I continued conscious
of the persistency of the impression of reality attained in
the dream, which is the never failing mark of this type of
dream.
It is possible that there was some connexion between
the sensation of numbness in the forearm and fingers preceding
the impulse to write automatically on the evening of April
19, and the vivid sensation of information conveyed by means
of contact with almost precisely the same part of the arm
and hand in the dream on the following night. But it must
be noted that a similar vivid sensation of touch in the same
arm has twice before in dreams seemed to me to convey
!See p. 195. 2See App., p. 386.
uu.] Reminiscences, etc. 151
the knowledge of something uncommunicated and perhaps
incommunicable in any other way, and that these two earlier
dreams occurred respectively in 1894 and 1898, long before
I had succeeded in obtaining automatic writing.
(6) On May 8, 1901, I wrote automatically, beginning at
10 p.m., and the script terminated with a suggestion that
other automatic phenomena were being produced elsewhere
at the same hour.
In my note-book I recorded on May 10, 1901, 9 a.m.,
that on the preceding night I had dreamt that Mrs. Thompson
was obtaining automatic phenomena ; I had woke and dreamt
again to the same effect, and this though at the time I
knew that she was not giving sittings. I had therefore no
reason whatever to attach any value to the suggestion in the
dream : it was recorded because I was keeping a careful
record of all impressions in any way likely to throw light on
the production of automatic phenomena. The dream may have
been due to a development of the idea expressed in the script
of May 8, that communications were being elsewhere produced
at the same time that my script was being written.
However this may be, there seems to have been a further
development in my next piece of script on May 11, which
definitely stated that Mrs. Thompson would have news to
give in the next few days.
There seems no doubt as to the connexion here between my
automatic writing and my dreams, as the dream impression
seems to furnish the link between the two statements in the
script.
The most interesting point in this case is that the infor
mation thus obtained was correct.1
(c) In the third of these cases there seems to have been
a direct influence by the script upon my dreams. On June 3rd,
1901, the script concluded its remarks thus :
Pone stilum per aliquot dies—signa dabo cum rescribere
,debes. In somniis veritas—expecta.*
This was followed by an attempt at signature.
* Trams. "Put down your pen for a few days; I will give a sign
,when you are to write again (?). In dreams is truth—wait."
!See p. 207.
152 Chapter VII. [PART
I took this to mean that I was not to write again till I
received some indication, and I expected that indication to-
take the form of some physical impulse to the hand such as
I had had on April 19, 1901, or at least a very strong desire
to write, such as I had had on more than one occasion pre
viously (May 11, May 27). I thought the remark about
truth in dreams referred to my sensations of reality in certain
dreams, and might mean that instead of getting automatic
writing I was to look out for an impression in a dream. I
mention this to show what were my expectations at the
time.
For some days after June 3 I made no attempt to write,
but on the night of June 13 I had a ridiculous dream, to
the effect that I received an " automatic telegram "—whatever
that may be !—telling me that I might begin writing again.
I then saw that the words of June 3 were quite capable of
being interpreted to mean that the signal for the resumption of
writing would come in a dream and I have little doubt that
such an unconscious interpretation helped to produce the
dream.
(d) In another case, it seems as if a state of mind
produced in me by the script were distinctly reflected in
a dream which occurred on the succeeding night. On November
22, 1901, and again on Nov. 25, the automatic script pur
ported to come from Mr. Francis Maitland Balfour of Trinity
College.1 I was disturbed at the occurrence in my script of
supposed messages requiring verification from my friends, as
I believed that the greater part of the writing was produced
by some part of my own mind over which I had little or
no control.
On the evening of November 25, my mind was constantly
occupied with the thought of how, without stopping the phe
nomena, I could be sure of preventing myself from manufactur
ing messages, and how I could hope to obtain any sort of
guarantee that they were genuine. That night I had a dream
directly bearing on this question, and in the dream I recognised
the impression given as being an answer to my difficulty as to
determining the source of the statements in the script. The
details are not very clear and certainly not interesting ; what is.
1 See also pp. 26, 225.
Lin.] Reminiscences, etc. 153
certain is that on the night after the recurrence of the un
comfortable condition of mind produced by the contents of
the script, I had a dream which endeavoured to persuade me
of the genuineness of my automatic phenomena, and so to
remove that condition of mind.
(e) In the next case the memory of an otherwise forgotten
dream seems to have been recalled by the script. The case
has no other interest, but is the only instance of the kind,
and is therefore related here.
On March 31, 1902, the script, produced at 11.15 a.m.,
contained the following words :
The red postbox was in a bird's eye view—last night.
36 was the number 6x6 and the VI Aeneid—look at the line
No. XXXVI1
On reading this over I remembered that the preceding night
I had dreamt that I was trying experiments in the thought-
transference of diagrams and saw something round with a tail
below, and red ; I was told in the dream that I was not
unsuccessful, as the object was a red pillar-box. I thought
my object very unlike a pillar-box, and asked to see the
pillar-box in question. I then found that it was looked at
from above, and that the door in the side was open, so that
the only lines represented were a circle and a semicircle
attached below, thus *^J. In the dream also, so it seemed
to me, were mixed up the numbers 36 and 6, and Aeneid VI.
It is of course possible that no such dream occurred, but
that the remarks in the script produced a pseudo-memory.
But that is not my impression, and in view of the differences
between the script and the dream I am disposed to think
that I did actually dream something of the sort described,
and that my subliminal self continued on the same lines
when it got the chance of writing automatically.
Neither the script nor the dream seem to have been of
any value and the line in the Sixth Aeneid (Aen. VI. 36)2 is
meaningless without its context.
1See App., p. 349, for complete script.
2 Aen. VI. 36. "Deiphobe Glauci, fatur quae talia regi." (Dei-
phobe daughter of Glaucus, who thus spoke to the king.)
154 Chapter VII. [PART
(/) The next case of connexion between the script and
dreams occurred in the early summer of 1902, at the time
that I was going abroad. The circumstances are somewhat
similar to those in case c, and may quite possibly have been
produced by an association of ideas, as we were going again
at the same time of year to the same place in Switzerland.
On May 31, 1902, the script said "Later not here in the
mountains shall come the news that helps," and at the end
of the communication it told me to " dream and remember—
the blue colour that you saw—see again to-night, alone in
sleep." I had no impression of colour in sleep that night,
and for some time after this I made no attempt to obtain
writing since I felt, as I have occasionally done at other times,
as if the faculty had left me. On June 17, 1902, at
Lausanne, I had a feeling that the power to write was
returning, and on June 20 "in the mountains " some suggestion
was made in dream about obtaining automatic phenomena on
Tuesday or Wednesday.
Script was obtained on the day suggested,1 after an impulse
to write, so that a remark in the script of May 31 apparently
produced impressions in sleep on June 17 and June 20, and
in its turn the impression in sleep of June 20 produced an
impulse to write on June 24.
(g) The next attempt at a connexion between the script
and my dreams was in the summer of 1903 when I was
again in Switzerland. It was a complete failure. On June
2 1 the script wrote : " Listen to night in the silence it will
come to you." I had a dream on the evening of June 21,
but it was of a perfectly trivial and ordinary character and
had no connexion with anything in the script.
(h) The last case is quite unlike any of those that have
been described ; there seems to have been an attempt in a
dream to interpret what had been written long before in
the script and not understood. The incident is complicated,
and not easily comprehensible without elaborate explanations.
It is therefore not related here, and I need only say that my
dreaming mind showed a familiarity with details in the auto
matic script of some three years before, and an ingenuity of
interpretation far exceeding that of my conscious self. For
1 See p. 302.
LIIL] Reminiscences, etc. 155
that conscious self had altogether failed to see what, after the
dream, seemed likely enough to have been the meaning of
the script.
This completes the account of all cases where there seems
to have been any connexion between the script and my
dreams : the total number is not large, but neither is the
total number of dreams remembered in the morning or thought
worth recording. Still, with all allowance made for that, it
does not seem as if any definite or regular connexion between
my dreaming mind and my writing hand could be established,
though on some occasions they do appear to have been in
communication.
156 Chapter VIII. [PART
CHAPTER VIII.
EXPERIMENTS IN CONVEYING INFORMATION TELEPATHICALLY
TO THE SCRIPT.
IN the course of the period during which I have obtained
automatic writing a certain number of experiments have been
tried, with the object of seeing whether information unknown
to me could be conveyed to me by means of telepathy,
clairvoyance, or other unrecognised channel. Two of these
experiments were performed without my knowledge, one by
my husband, one by a friend who had heard of the experi
ment carried out by my husband. The latter was completely
unsuccessful ; the former, though not successful in all points,
shows I think beyond dispute that the script was influenced
by the desire of my husband, unknown to me, that it should
produce a certain phrase consisting of three Greek words,
for it seems to have made a large number of attempts—with
varying success—to reproduce those words. The circumstances
are described below.
(A) EXPERIMENTS WITHOUT MY KNOWLEDGE.
(1) A. W. Verrall. In April, 1901, soon after the inception
of my automatic writing, my husband decided, without giving
me any hint of his intention, to try an experiment in
thought-transference. He wrote down the three Greek words
/movoTTto\ov e? aw,1 " to the one-horse dawn," a phrase con
nected with an incident of his undergraduate days about
thirty years before. The incident was never known, as far
as we are aware, to me, and was only known at the time
of its occurrence to the two or three friends immediately
concerned and himself. When he related the incident to me
in October, 1902, his recollections were as follows: that during
!Eur. Or. 1004.
LIII.] Experiments in Telepathy. 157
an examination he and some other men met on the Senate
House steps after a translation paper in which had been set
a passage from the Orestes of Euripides containing the above words;
that some one asked "What on earth is the meaning of /movo-
Tria\ov es aS> ? that some one else answered " a one-horse dawn,"
and " one-horse " being a current slang expression at the time
there was a laugh and the subject dropped ; that Dr. A. T.
Myers and Mr. Edmund Gurney1 were members of the group
of friends. I have since ascertained that the passage was set
for translation in the Classical Tripos of 1873, the year of
my husband's degree. Dr. Myers was a fellow-candidate with
my husband, but Mr. Gurney was not. The examination took
place in the Senate House.
The words occur in a passage describing a disturbance of
natural phenomena, the reversal of the movement of the sun,
and the epithet yuoi/oVcoXo? is usually taken to refer to the
one-horse car of Dawn as distinguished from the four-horse
chariot of the Sun ; in my husband's opinion, however, the
word may mean no more than /JLOVOS, alone or solitary, the
latter part of the word, -TrioXo?, being possibly connected with
TTwXeo/uai, " to wander."
This experiment was devised by my husband in April,
1901, and the three words were then written down, with
the intention of seeing whether my hand would make any
attempt to reproduce his thought. The paper on which the
words were written was put into an envelope, placed by him,
to the best of his belief, in the drawer of his writing-table,
where he is in the habit of keeping papers. The drawer is
not used by any one but himself.2 He had not made, he
tells me, any experiment before ; and he said nothing about
any experiment either at the time of its beginning, or at
any time during the continuance of what are hereafter
noted as allusions to it in the script.
The first apparent allusion 3 to such an experiment occurred
!Mr. Gurney died in 1888, and Dr. Myers in 1894.
2 The note of this experiment was mislaid or lost; it could not
be found when the experiment was ended and the words told to me.
3 ' Apparent,' that is, in the light of those which followed ; at the
time, as will immediately be seen, my husband did not recognize
it as an allusion.
158 Chapter VIII. [PART
on June 16, 1901, when these words appeared, "Five stars
in the east that is not right. Cant you understand—" followed
later hy the observation : " There is no hurry, show it all
to your husband." I attached no special importance to this
injunction. Since March 5, when the writing began, there
had been four references in all to my husband by his initials
A. W. V., and on June 3 the script had expressed a feeling
that it was difficult to convince a sceptic, but that it could
" soon give a plain message for him who runs not 1 to read—
A. W. V. knows better than you." I was in the habit of
showing my script to my husband and he saw this writing
of June 16 but did not recognise in it any allusion to hi&
three words. We were temporarily separated towards the end
of July, 1901. On August 1, I showed him the writing of
July 3 1 , and he told me that " it interested him." This I
noted at the time, as I did all such observations, but neither
then nor at any subsequent date up to October, 1902, did
I have the least idea that he was looking for any particular
words in my script, or that he had himself set my hand a
task ; the extracts which were subsequently seen to refer
to this incident were parts of larger wholes, and though he
told me from time to time by way of encouragement that
there was " a point of interest " to him in that day's writing,
or that he " understood what the script meant," I never had
the least idea to what he was referring. I was aware that
there was something in my writing which he was observing
with interest, and I noted all his observations at the time.
But it was not till more than a year later, Oct. 17, 1902,
when it seemed clear that no further attempts to produce
the words would be made, that I heard from him what he
had been looking for and that he had made an experiment.
What first made my husband think that the script might
be on the track of his three words was the appearance in
the script of July 31, 1901, of the following phrases:
longaevus senex barba alba fiovo\i,T<»vos sine apparatu . . . albi-
pannosus est. signifer ille.
The words purport to describe an " aged man with a white
beard, one-garmented without ornament . . . white-garmented
1 My husband was lame from rheumatism in the knees.
LIII.] Experiments in Telepathy. 159
is he : the standard-bearer." But in the curious word, not
extant, HOVO-XITWVOS, he saw a possible attempt at /j.ovoTrw\ov.
In connexion with this, the repetition of the Latin word for
white, alba, which is also a late Latin word for " dawn "
(French aube), seemed also possibly suggestive. The sequel,
as will be seen, confirmed this. The writing of July 31
concluded with the remark : " In August you will know more—
wait. Don't ask. write often."
I wrote on Aug. 6, 7, and 10, but on none of these days
was there any reference to the three words. On Aug. 13,
however, the script made another twofold attempt at the
idea of " dawn " by the juxtaposition of a crowing cock and
a motto about dawn. After this it made persistent efforts,
some attempt at either sense or sound of the three words
appearing in each of the next fourteen writings of the script,
that is, on all the days when writing was obtained between
Aug. 13 and Sept 20, fifteen in all. At the time, and until
I was told of the experiment in October, 1902, I had no
notion of their significance. It will be easily realised by any
one who will consider the fragmentary nature of those allusions
and the multiplicity of ways in which now the sense, now
the sound, and now the appearance of the words was indicated,
that it was not possible for a person ignorant of the nature
of the problem that had been set, not even knowing that
there was a problem, to interpret the allusions or even to
connect them. I had no idea that there was anything in
question so definite as a sentence, and was astonished on
looking back through the writing to see how near the script
had come to the truth.
From the detailed comment1 that follows, it will be seen
that the script attempts to reproduce both the word and the
sense : it tries for the notions of " dawn " and of " one-horse "
or " solitary " ; it also attempts to reproduce the sound and
the appearance both of the individual words and of the
whole sentence of three words. There are perhaps also
1 In the Appendix (p. 387) will be found all passages in the script
which appear to relate to this incident, and also a summary under
heads of the various attempts according as they seem to aim at
representing the sense, the sound, or the appearance of the three
words that made the subject of the experiment.
160 Chapter VIII. [PART
references to the incident which suggested the phrase to my
husband ; 1 and there are many appeals to him.
The first attempt seems to have beea directed at the
sense ; on June 1 6 appears the first suggestion of " dawn "
in the words "five stars in the east," said immediately not
to be right, and followed by the remark that the incredible
bird would return within six months. Another allusion was
made to dawn on July 4, and on July 31, as we have seen
above, appeared, in HOVO-XITUIVOS, an approach to the words.
The script of July 31 promised further information in
August, but three writings intervened before it returned to the
subject. Then, on August 13, it again recurred to the subject
of dawn by writing of a " cock, a crested cock that crows,"
which it recognised as " an emblem—not a real bird " and
actually interpreted as a symbol of morning, for it added :
" heraldic—with a motto—cano canam albam." *
On Aug. 16, after saying that there was something to
expound for me and another (e£rjyt]cris Trapa a-ol KOI aXXw rivl)
it went on :
easier and easier though you do not know. The cock is inside
a circle perhaps a coin. Try for the words again.
Then came further efforts at words including " albicapillus and
albipannosus," and a description of some one in long trailing
draperies of white carrying a long stick in one hand, a small
box in the other, and " going towards the east " :
AWV will understand this—I think of him when I say it—you
do not know.
My husband naturally did understand very well, as he was
actually looking for reference to words of which ' going towards
the east ' is a fair translation.
On Aug. 20 a reference to a wearer of white drapery, with
the words " a strong sweet scent trails behind " suggests an
emergence—in the form of a priest approaching an altar—
of another way of suggesting the east. Then, after confused
* Trans. " I sing the white dawn." Here it seems certain that
albam represents aube.
1 The script seems to show knowledge of something not remembered
by him at the time of the experiment, though known to him in
the past; see p. 163.
Lin.] Experiments in Telepathy. 161
references to my husband's old school, Wellington College, it
ends with what may be an allusion to the circumstances of
the incident :
The long room with the many windows is near this hot room
—he was outside—how plain it seems to me I but you dont know.
Arthur can tell you.1
The strangely involved and embarrassed process of the thought
is well illustrated in the script of Aug. 23, for frantic efforts are
made to get at another word which eventually turns out to be
" Chanticlere," merely another way of saying " cock " which has
already been quite plainly said.
On August 2 8 the notion of the " altar " seems clearly
to emerge ; the cock reappears again as an emblem ; it is
seen that words or writing is required ; reference is made
to my husband, not by his full initials but by the first two,
which have always been used to designate him by some of his
undergraduate friends : " Ask A.W. he will recognise this."
There seems some confusion here as to what writing is wanted.
Some time before, we had been reminded by a phrase in the
script of a Latin inscription2 which my husband had made for a
friend, and the effort to get at words interesting my husband
seems to have produced some recollection of this other incident.
The drawing of a sundial in the script is at once followed by
the words " in the east to the daylight," again reproducing
the sense of the three words.
The next day, Aug. 29, efforts seem to have been directed
rather to the letters, and appearance and sound of the
words, than to the sense, though the notion of the dawn is
not forgotten. But the middle word is plainly produced.
After saying that the shape of the letters is archaic, and
drawing three archaic forms of Greek letters, in illustration,
it produces the word " es," with the archaic s, in connexion with
'Arthur is my husband's name, but as the name here is not
written in my ordinary hand, and he is elsewhere—and in this
very script—referred to by his initials, I do not believe that the
allusion is to him. See also script of Oct. 6, 1901, where 'Arthur'
is clearly distinguished from A. W. V., and there clearly refers to
some one dead ; in that passage probably, and in this possibly, the
allusion is to Dr. Arthur Myers.
2 See below, p. 280, for an account of allusions to an inscription.
L
162 Chapter VIII. [PART
the emblematic bird, thus endeavouring to represent e? aS>
(es Ao) "to the dawn."
On Sept. 2 the sound again appears : " waly, perhaps vale,
two syllables. e? TO . . . ," where it seems to aim at e? aw.
On Sept. 4 it gets the a as well as the es by writing as ' the
letters': "^C agunto CArUCM TO esagito." Then it
returns to the attempt at the first word (/movoiru\ov) and
at the meaning which was given to it by my husband " wander
ing alone," and gets as near it as
/iovocrroAos—fiovo\iT<avos /j.ovo'} fifra 6eov ov&f a\\ov Tivbs *
But still it is aware that it has not got the last word :
but I want the final word.
At this point I was interrupted and the script produced
later in the day only repeated what had already been given,
with a slight modification : fc C Ot P I 3 u/vu£o
More attempts were made on Sept. 7, first at the words,
then at their sound :
Mol es to but the ec is the end of a word. es
there are o and 1 before the es. oA . . es Tender es fusa
a long word like that,—foreign, Indian I think—Banipal
and Assur.
In spite of the vagueness and groping, it is clear here, (1) that
the script is seeking to produce certain definite words in a
foreign language ; (2) that these words were felt to be three ;
(3) that, notwithstanding the remark about " Indian," the
language is suspected to be Greek, since Greek characters are
used in writing it ; (4) that the sound or word es is an
ascertained part.
On September 9 it took two further steps in advance.
After repeating the letters suggested last time, and stating
correctly that the " m comes before the es agiles," it goes on
to introduce the ' p,' a conspicuous omission in its previous
attempts to represent fjLovoTrw\ov (monop5lon.~) This it did in
a very quaint fashion. My husband of course noticed (though,
as usual, without saying anything to me) that the attempt
monostolos was defective chiefly in wanting the p of monopOlon ;
* Trans. " Single-vested, single-robed, alone with God and none other."
LIII.] Experiments in Telepathy. 163
on this day, without betraying any notion that what was wanted
was the Greek letter p, (ir) ' Pi," it suddenly remarked :
Pye is a bird too but not ours.
At its next opportunity, Sept. 12, it emphasised this addition,
saying,
Pye gives one clue but there is another.
The second point made on September 9 is -an odd one. In
the midst of the attempts it wrote :
Find the herb moly1 that will help—it is a guide. ^TCL
Kal reXos Aij^eis [sic]. *
We could attach no meaning to the allusion to Milton's phrase ;
the passage in Comus (11. 636-7) seemed to have no
bearing on the context, and recalled nothing to my husband
either at the time or later when he revealed his experiment
to me, and we examined in detail together all the writing of
these weeks. But in the spring of 1905, when I was writing
this paper and had ascertained that the passage of the Orestes
was set in the last paper of the Classical Tripos of 1873, it
occurred to me to look at the other papers set in that year,
and I found that the subject for Latin Hexameters in the
Tripos of 1873 was the passage from Comus, ending,
"And yet more med'cinal is it than that moly
Which Hermes once to wise Ulysses gave."
It appears that the combination of the letters m o I, pro
duced in the effort to give the word iUoi/oVcoXoi/, had, by
some association of ideas, suggested a reminiscence of another
paper in the same Tripos examination. The curious point
about this is that the recollection had entirely gone from my
husband's mind ; when I asked him if he had any recollection
of other papers in the Tripos, and in particular of the Latin
Verse, he could recall nothing, and even the sight of the
passage in Comus did not revive any memory of having trans
lated it. That all the pieces set for translation or composition
in an important examination make a profound impression at
the time does not need proving to those who have been examined.
* Trans. "Seek and you will find at last."
1 In larger writing.
164 Chapter VIII. [PART
But it is strange to find that my script seems to have
registered here not only an existing mental impression of my
husband's, but also a forgotten past impression, once closely
associated with the first.
On Sept. 1 2 the script recurred to " Pye," and apparently
tried to give " another clue," but without much success.
On Sept. 14 it played round the sounds and the notions
of " planet " and " solitary," and came exceedingly near to
fiovoTTia\ov in sense, when it wrote : illustre vagatur caelo sine
comite, " bright it wanders in the sky uncompanioned "—a
sentence which is in fact a precise and correct exposition in
Latin of /u.ovoTrui\ov (au>), lonely-wandering (dawn), according to
the interpretation preferred by my husband.
On Sept. 18 it got vaguely hold of the only idea not
hitherto reproduced, namely, that of " horse " in the ordinary
view of the meaning of /i.ovoTrw\os, " having one horse." The
word ( ~" *J *- T~7 "77" (j [ , which it described as being en
graved on something is suggestive of CWTTTTO?, "of goodly horses."1
On this occasion, while I was writing in one room, my husband,
sitting in another, definitely fixed his mind on the notion
of ' horse,' which had so far been conspicuously absent. This
was unknown to me at the time and wholly unsuspected ; I
was somewhat startled to find when he told me, on seeing
the script of Sept. 18, that he had been fixing his mind on
something, as I had had no idea that my writing had in any
sense been the subject of experiment.
After this no further light was obtained ; I now knew that
there was a thing wanted by my husband and that he had
been trying experimentally to obtain it ; whether this know
ledge on my part had any effect I cannot tell, but the next
script had very little to say on the subject beyond a suggestion
that the words were not those of the ostensible writer, but
of some doctor, apparently not a doctor of letters ; I was to
ask A.W.V.
1 It has been suggested that the letters in the script represent not
ivnnros, but «is iWos, 'one horse.' The second symbol in the script
looks like a y, but is plainly made of two strokes, and might be a
Greek i, followed by a badly made Greek s. In that case, the script in
«?s "TTTTOS 'one horse ' has come very near the common meaning of
LIII.] Experiments in Telepathy. 165
On Sept. 28 I had automatic writing with no reference
whatever to these words or to my husband,—a thing that
had not occurred since August 10, and the next writing on
Oct. 6 contained the words " But A.W.V. must be satisfied."
Since then nothing further has been contributed. On three
subsequent occasions, Nov. 1, 1901, July 1, and July 7,
1902, in some unintelligible fragments, there appear to be
reminiscences of the attempts at words in the autumn of
1901, but these have no meaning, no connexion with the
context or with one another, and no reference to my husband.
They appear in fact to be reminiscences of what has been
earlier written in the script, not fresh contributions in any
sense. There are other instances in the script of similar
echoes.
In October, 1902, finding that no further development had
occurred for a year, my husband related the whole experiment
to me and we then looked through the script and selected the
relevant passages. The abruptness with which the search
for the three words terminated is perhaps no less remark
able than the persistence with which during six weeks it
was pursued. It is also noticeable that the cessation of the
attempts followed instantly iipon my becoming aware that
my husband was trying an experiment.
No one who reads the detailed account of the writing
of August and September, 1901, can, I think, have any
doubt that there is a connexion between the persistent
efforts of the script and the test that had been devised
by my husband. There is nothing else at all like this in
the history of the automatic writing. Efforts have been made
by the script on other occasions to convey information, and
the information so conveyed has often required piecing together
and has extended over long periods of time. But in no
other case have the efforts been consecutive and concentrated,
hardly wandering from the subject at all, for it is evident,
I think, on reading what was produced between Aug. 13 and
Sept. 20 that though a great deal is said which does not
advance the enquiry, little else but this enquiry forms the
matter communicated ; that is to say, the references to places
and people, etc., seem to be brought in during the efforts made
166 Chapter VIII. [PART
to trace the various possible clues, not to have an interest
or an object of their own. In other cases, where repeated
efforts have been made to convey the same information,
the remarks were scattered over a long period of time and
amid much matter bearing on quite disconnected topics.
Here, on the contrary, after a few tentative references to
the subject (on June 3, June 16, and July 3) a definite
approach is made on July 31 ; interest was aroused in
me by my husband's evident interest in the writing of
that day, though I had no idea what it was that had a
meaning for him, and then, after another ten days, on August
13 the script began to approach the subject of the three
Greek words and to that subject it stuck for six weeks ;
then it abruptly dismissed the subject, with an expression
intimating the dismissal, and never- recurred to it again.
As regards success, it will not I think be denied that the
script made an attempt at the problem—a thing itself
remarkable in the circumstances. Also it came near to what
was set both in sound and sense. The script is full, for the
time, of the ideas morning and east, named or suggested in
various ways; more than once occurs a translation, or some
thing very near it, of the original words—" going towards the
east," " in the east to the daylight," and so on. The language
and words too are approached, the middle word e? is correctly
and repeatedly given ; it is indicated clearly that the «, is pre
ceded by a compound of /U.OVQ-, and it is suggested that the
final word begins with a and ends with o. When it is considered
that all this while I had no notion that any experiment
whatever was on foot, and had no reason to suppose so, the
facts, I think, are certainly noteworthy.
I have dealt with this incident at great length because it
seems to me to possess a special value for those who are
interested in the questions raised by the study of my auto
matic script ; the problem here is much more definite than
in most of the other cases. It is possible to place side by
side the thing aimed at and the thing attained, and judge
the results. Again, the general difficulty of estimating the
value of the script is brought out very clearly by this
incident ; given the words selected by my husband it can, in
my view, be shown that the script from Aug. 13 to Sept. 20,
LIII.] Experiments in Telepathy. 167
1901, bears unmistakeable evidence of a knowledge of their
appearance and their meaning. But had we not known the
words, they would have been irrecoverable from the script,
although a careful examination would have shown an effort to
communicate something definite, and something intelligible to
my husband. Under these circumstances it is rash to count
as rubbish all that is not easily understood. We should
rather apply in other cases the patience and scrutiny which
were in this case justified.
(2) The second experiment tried without my knowledge
was a complete failure. Mr. Gilbert Murray, who stayed
with us in November, 1902, and heard of the experiment
above described, tried a similar one on his departure, with
out telling me anything of his intentions. But when he
told me of this experiment on Sept. 9, 1903, I found no
trace of any allusion to it in the script produced in the
last ten months.
It should be said that though Mr. Murray has been suc
cessful in experiments involving telepathy with other persons,
there has been no evidence for thought-transference between
him and me ; on the other hand, there have been recorded
some instances, though not many, of successful telepathy, both
spontaneous and experimental, between myself and my husband,
and some further traces of knowledge of what was in his
mind appear in the script.1
(B) EXPERIMENTS WITH MY KNOWLEDGE.
It does not form part of the scheme of this paper to
discuss the series of experiments in simultaneous automatic
writing with other writers 2 unknown, or but slightly known
to me, which I have from time to time carried out. But
though the mass of the writing here dealt with has been
produced spontaneously, there are a few cases where experi
ments have been tried which are of the same general type
1 See p. 184. See also Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIIL, pp. 481-2.
2 A paper on experiments in simultaneous writing by Mrs.
Bradgate and myself was read at a meeting of the S.P.R. and
reported in the Journal for November, 1904.
168 Chapter VIII. [PART
as the other matter here discussed and are therefore included.
On three or four occasions I have arranged to sit for writing
at the same hour as Mrs. Forbes, and the results are described
in that part of this paper which deals with the relations
between our automatic writings. The other experiments are
as follows :
(1) Six attempts to read the contents of a sealed envelope
sent to me by Mr. F. C. Constable, then unknown to me ;
(2) Three similar attempts two years later;
(3) Two scripts produced when sitting at the same time
as a friend, Mrs. Dew Smith ;
(4) Attempts to obtain some Greek words known only to
the friend who suggested the experiment.
(1) First experiment with Mr. Constable, November, 1902.
On Nov. 4, 1902, I received from Miss Johnson a letter
and a sealed envelope sent to her by Mr. F. C. Constable of
Wick Court near Bristol, with a request that I would try
an experiment, and see whether by sitting with the sealed
envelope in my hand I could obtain in the script any
reference to its contents. Mr. Constable, who is a member
of the S.P.R., and had heard a paper read at a meeting
by me about my script, was an absolute stranger to me.
I sat with the sealed envelope in my left hand on Nov. 4,
5, 7, 11, 18, and 24; after this I returned the envelope
unopened to Miss Johnson and was made acquainted with its
contents and other circumstances by Mr. Constable whom I
met in town on Dec. 9. The conditions were excellent :
Mr. Constable and I were strangers ; I had no means of
anticipating what was likely to interest him ; I received from
him one letter only, written on Nov. 7, until after the
conclusion of the experiment. The question is whether any
connexion is established between the problem set by him and
the results shown in my writing.
Briefly the facts are these : The sealed envelope contained
a letter from Mr. Constable addressed to Mr. Gurney ;
Mr. Gurney had known of a " psychic " experience of Mr.
Constable's following upon his mother's death on Aug. 7,
1867, in which the word "fuchsia" was the important point.
Liu.] Experiments in Telepathy. 169
Mr. Constable's idea was to send in closed envelopes to me
and to Mrs. Piper letters addressed to Mr. Gurney suggesting
that some knowledge of the " fuchsia " incident should appear
in our automatic writings. None of these facts were known
to me at the time of the experiment. I learnt them from
Mr. Constable when I met him for the first time on Dec.
9, 1902.
The whole of the script produced on the six sittings is
given in the Appendix.1 On Nov. 4, 5, 11, and 18, I held the
envelope the whole time that the writing was being produced ;
on Nov. 7 I put it down after nine words had been written,
and the last part of the script, which obviously refers to
other matters, is excluded from this experiment. On Nov. 24
I fell asleep in the course of the writing and have no note
on the subject of how long I held the envelope. I regarded
the first words, " I can't do more," as expressing a desire to
discontinue the experiment, and thereupon returned the un
opened envelope to Miss Johnson.
It is not easy to summarise the results : in the first three
trials there seems to recur an effort after something represented
by " Constantia " and " dementia " on Nov. 4, " Olivia " and
"a long woman's name ending ia" on Nov. 5, and "Constantia"
again on Nov. 7 ; this may possibly be aimed at the word
" fuchsia "—a word, it may be noted, made by adding " ia "
to the name " Fuchs "—which is what Mr. Constable hoped
to have produced, and if so the script of Nov. 7 was justified
in saying " one only word." But the general description of the
letter on Nov. 5 is too indefinite to be of value, and a state
ment about the " short name like Jack " is incorrect. The script
of Nov. 11 gives no information; the only point on Nov. 18
that bears on the matter is the introduction of the name Gurney.
The name is not however connected by the script with the
letter, and the quotation introduced has no applicability. The
last piece of writing is very confused ; the only point of contact
with the experiment seems to be in the introduction of
Dr. Hodgson's name and the statement that " he had tried
the flowers but without success." The same experiment had
been suggested by Mr. Constable to Dr. Hodgson to try
with Mrs. Piper, so in that case too the word wanted was
App., p. 394.
170 Chapter VIII. [PART
the name of a flower. But the sentence in my script may
refer to an experiment that Dr. Hodgson had suggested my
trying in the spring of 1902, to which, however, no reference
had been made in the script since the allusion on April
24, 1902, described above.1 It is perhaps more than a
coincidence that an allusion should be made to " Hodgson "
and an experiment with flowers while I was trying to get
at what Mr. Constable wanted. But it is not distinctive
enough to be of evidential value.
But if we turn from the question of the contents of the
sealed envelope to the general intention of Mr. Constable,
I think there is a suggestion of connexion between his
thoughts and my script. On Nov. 3, the day on which
he wrote the letter which he sealed and the two letters
explaining the experiment to Miss Johnson and to me, my
script produced the following : 2
None the less through others not known speaks the fate,—
fatum ineffabile ineluctabile, etsi tu magno contendis corpore
contra.
I will give the words between you neither alone can read, but
together they will give the clue he wants.
Comperire . . . redintegratio amoris A nee non secessus (desunt
hi alia et alioquin) Redit iam verbum ipsum—Caritatis voca-
bulura, but hers are in English and will fill the gaps—Wait
some time for hers—it is hard to give her words.
Tuus—iam nomen habes in mente etsi non in calamo. *
This was absolutely unintelligible to me at the time, and
I do not profess to understand it now. But it seems to
have a possible bearing on the experiment that Mr. Constable
* Trans. " The fate unspeakable unavoidable, although you with all
your strength fight against it ... to discover . . . the restoration
of love and not separation (here (?) and elsewhere (?) words are
missing). Now the word itself returns—the term Charity. . . .
Yours—you have the name in your mind now though not on your
pen."
1 See p. 58.
2 The script thus written was out of my control before I received
Mr. Constable's letter, as I had sent the original on Nov. 3 to
Mr. Piddington.
Lin.] Experiments in Telepathy. 171
was proposing on the day when this was written. The script
suggests
(1) an utterance from a stranger,
(2) a division of a task between two persons,
(3) the obtaining of a clue for some one (masculine),
(4) an effort of some one other than myself (feminine) to
give words.
The above four points are not out of keeping with the
conditions of the experiment, and the receipt of Mr. Con
stable's letter and enclosure on Nov. 4 suggested to me at the
time a possible meaning for the otherwise unintelligible words
about " the clue he wants."
The script of Nov. 7 also suggests a telepathic connexion
with Mr. Constable ; after returning to " Constantia " it adds
" one only word," and refuses absolutely to say more. In a
letter written on Nov. 7 and received on Nov. 8, thanking me
for undertaking the experiment, Mr. Constable, who had been
very careful in the letter proposing the experiment to give
me no clue as to what he had put in the sealed envelope,
wrote : " I thank you heartily for trying my experiment—
perhaps one word meaningless to you." This, I think, shows
that on Nov. 7 his thoughts were occupied with the word
' fuchsia ' which he hoped to obtain, rather than with the
general contents of the sealed letter, and on the same day
my script distinctly committed itself to the statement about
" one only word." 1
(2) Second experiment with Mr. Constable, November, 1904.
On Nov. 10, 1904, I heard from Mr. Constable, enclosing
a sealed envelope for experiment. In answer I told him that
I would try as before, but that I would take three or four
weeks over the experiment, as I was not at that time writing
automatically often. I sat with the envelope in my hand
three times, on Nov. 18, 23, and 25. Contrary to the usual
habit, after the first attempt at automatic writing I had a
strong impression about the experiment which I recorded in
my diary on Nov. 19. On Nov. 25, immediately after writing,
!For subsequent possible connexion between Mr. Constable and
my script, of a spontaneous kind, see p. 181.
172 Chapter VIII. [BART
I had another distinct feeling that I " was to write my
impressions to him at once." This I did, so that on this
occasion the results on my side are represented not only by
three pieces of automatic writing, but by my letter of Nov. 25
to Mr. Constable.
The details appear in the Appendix ; 1 I summarise the
incident here :
Mr. Constable had heard at the Council dinner of the S.P.R.
on Oct. 21 that there was a likelihood of opening a sealed
letter left by Mr. Myers, in consequence of statements made
by my script. He felt doubt as to the value of such a test,
regarded as evidence for the continuing of personal identity after
death, thinking that the contents of the letter might become
known to a medium by clairvoyance. He therefore tried to devise
a test to distinguish if possible between the effect on a medium
of (a) the actual words written in the letter itself—to be read
by clairvoyance—and (b) the thoughts impressed on the letter,
or elsewhere, by the writer—to be learnt by telepathy in the
widest sense, by connexion, that is, between the minds of the
medium and the agent. Accordingly, on Nov. 9 he wrote two
letters, which he placed in envelopes and sealed ; one of these
contained the word " fuchsia," and this he sent to me ; the
other contained a record of the writer's thoughts (as dis
tinguished from the actual word), namely that, from 8.30 to
9.30, he was thinking of his mother. This letter was retained
in the custody of Mrs. Constable.
The impressions, recorded in my diary, and sent to Mr.
Constable after the three attempts had been made, were as
follows :
(1) that the contents of the letter were less important
than the circumstances of the experiment ;
(2) that the experiment was suggested to Mr. Constable by
some one else ;
(3) that the experiment was connected with the sealed
envelope (i.e. the Myers envelope which there was a
question of opening), and meant as a preliminary trial ;
(4) that the sealed envelope sent me was one of two and
the less important.
!See App., p. 395.
LIU.] Experiments in Telepathy. 173
I further noted that the script had made curly drawings
and an attempt at a word.
The above four impressions may on the whole be said to
be correct ; the experiment, though not suggested to Mr.
Constable by some one else, was devised by him as the
result of conversation with other persons ; the sealed envelope
sent to me was one of two, the shorter and the less important,
inasmuch as it represented the written word (a), and not the
writer's thought (b). These impressions are definitely enough
recorded in the script, which distinctly states,1 on Nov. 23,
after attempts at a word, that there is a second envelope held
by another person, and that one of the envelopes contains a
single word, and, on Nov. 23 and 25, that the experiment is
devised as a preliminary trial before opening the Myers
envelope.
The experiment then seems to have failed so far as concerns
the actual words contained in both letters, the letter I held
and the second, of the existence of which I did not know ;
but the script indicates knowledge of the fact that there
were two letters, and of the object of the experiment. That
is to say, there is no evidence of clairvoyance or of direct
transference from Mr. Constable's mind of what he intended
to convey. But it appears that the script showed acquaintance
with the circumstances of the experiment and of facts within
Mr. Constable's knowledge beyond what might be expected
from mere guessing.
(3) Experiment with Mrs. Dew Smith, April, 1903.
On April 2, 1903, I saw my friend Mrs. Dew Smith,
and found that she had been trying experiments in the
production of automatic phenomena by table tilting. We
arranged to have two simultaneous but separate sittings
on April 10 and 13, but I was prevented from sitting
on the 13th. On the 10th the script produced a message
in English and Greek, referring to Mrs. Dew Smith by
her Christian name and signed with a monogram.2 The
contents are too confused and enigmatic for verification ;
the word fiovdSe\tyos (with one brother) occurs twice, and
the signature consisted of two letters of my friend's initials
!See App., p. 397. 2See App., p. 400.
174 Chapter VIII. [PART
" A.D. " in a monogram. She has never to my knowledge
used a monogram. I sent the writing to her and heard that
though enigmatic the message was suggestive to her ; her
thoughts had been much occupied lately with her husband's
only brother, and the monogram reminded her of one used by
her husband who had died early in 1903. His first initial
was A, as I must have known though I had no recollection
of it, and he used Albert Durer's signature as a mark on
some of his belongings. I must have seen Albert Durer's
signature on engravings, but certainly never knew that it was
used by Mr. Dew Smith ; there is a certain resemblance
between the Durer signature and the signature of my script,
which is the only distinct monogram so occurring in the
writing. I knew of no brother of Mr. Dew Smith's, and had
always supposed him to be an only son.
On April 22 I heard the above facts from Mrs. Dew
Smith, and she said that she would sit on Mondays and Fri
days after tea. On Friday, April 24, my script contained a
short message about something quite different and added " I
cannot do it to-day." On Monday, April 27, the early part
of the script was supposed by me to refer to Mrs. Dew Smith,
and therefore was sent to her in London ; the latter half, in
a totally different handwriting, referred to Dr. Hodgson, and
when sent to him proved intelligible.
The part sent to Mrs. Dew Smith contained the words
" not the ring " followed by an attempt to describe and imitate
a handwriting. Then after writing " ask about the round
mirror where that is," it proceeded to draw and describe an
instrument like a pair of tweezers.
The writing was in a small sloping hand quite unlike my
own, and not recalling anything whatever to me.
Mrs. Dew Smith wrote on May 1 from Haslemere that
on Friday, April 24, she had sent a message mentally to me,
when sitting as we had arranged, asking for answers to two
questions :
(a) where was an ivory footrule belonging to her husband
which she had lost ;
(&) what she should give to a friend of his as a memento.
(a) Near the spot where she last used the footrule (in
her London house, not in the country where she was staying
LIU.] Experiments in Telepathy. 175
when she wrote) was a small round mirror lying on a table
as it had not yet been hung up.1
(b) She had thought of giving to the friend a ring which her
husband used to wear, but hesitated as she did not herself
wish to part with it : the writing described and imitated in
my script reminded her of that of the friend in question.
A letter from the friend was enclosed.
It will be seen that in a sense the script of April 27
answered the two questions put to me mentally by Mrs. Dew
Smith on April 24 ; (a) " ask about the round mirror where
that is " had an applicability to the disappearance of the
footrule which had last been used in proximity to a round
mirror ; (b) the words " not the ring " were a direct answer
to the second question. The likeness between the writing of
the script and that of Mrs. Dew Smith's friend is not
marked, though there appears to be some ; the final d is like ;
so is the r ; so is the general appearance of the document ;
but a stroke before the initial vowel, emphasised in the
script, does not occur in the letter. The other article
described has not been identified.
On the whole then, there seems some reason to think that
facts known to Mrs. Dew Smith were represented in the
script. I had no knowledge of a round mirror as a possession
of hers, though, as I had been in her London house, I may
have seen it. I had no reason to suppose that she was
thinking about a ring. The writer of the letter was and is
wholly unknown to me and I had certainly never seen any
specimen of the handwriting.
There have been no further attempts to obtain simul
taneous phenomena between Mrs. Dew Smith and myself ;
we had, many years ago, some success in experimental
telepathy, and a few cases of apparently veridical reference
to her in the script are related below.2
(4) Experiment with Mr. W. C. Marshall, May, 1904.
This last experiment was a failure. On May 13, 1904,
it was suggested that I should try to get in my script certain
1 She had recently moved into the London house.
2 See p. 183.
176 Chapter VIII. [PART
Greek words in a sheet of ' tips ' for an examination shown
to Mr. Marshall many years ago by a friend since dead, and
now known to no one else but Mr. Marshall. The script at
once wrote that the words were five and should be got the
next day. The next day, May 14, it produced five Greek
words incorrectly written and hardly construable, and on
June 5, 1904, without any context or reference to Mr.
Marshall, the script wrote: " Two foreign words maranthinon
telesphoron. Two long words not in English."
No further attempts were made for some months. I then
learned from Mr. Marshall that the words wanted were two
in number, but that the attempts in the script did not
resemble them.
An attempted correction on Dec. 30, after I had heard
as above from Mr. Marshall, took us no further, and the
script has made no other reference to the subject.1
^ee App., p. 401, for the script referring to this subject.
LIIL] References to Living Acquaintances. 177
CHAPTER IX.
SPONTANEOUS REFERENCES IN THE SCRIPT TO LIVING
ACQUAINTANCES.
As has been said above, the greater part of the script is
concerned with remarks about identifiable persons, living or
dead. Often the remarks are perfectly vague : " Ask So-and-
so," " Such-and-such would know." Sometimes they are of
no evidential value, as they deal with matters well within
my own knowledge at the time. But in other cases information
is thus conveyed which was not in my possession. I have
made a complete collection of all these " messages," as the pro
portion of grain to chaff is an important element in forming
conclusions as to the value of the script, but I do not propose
to describe them in detail.
Before discussing them here some words should be said on
the selection of the persons written about in the script.
Names of living persons occur some 280 times; in more
than 60 cases the references are to other persons known
by me as themselves obtaining or able to obtain automatic
phenomena.1 The remaining 214 occasions may be classified as
follows :
(I.) Miscellaneous, - - - - - - 28
(II.) Personal friends known to be specially interested
in the script, - - - - - 186
viz. (A) Persons already connected with
the script 6
(B) A. W. Verrall (husband) - 34
(C) Miss H. de G. Verrall (daughter) 19
(D) Mrs. Sidgwick and her brothers 17
1 These are separately discussed, see Chapters X. and XI.
M
178 Chapter IX. [PART
(E) Prominent members of the S.P.R. 67
viz. Dr. Hodgson - 40
Sir Oliver Lodge - 11
Mr. Piddington - 13
Others - - 3
(F) Other friends - - - 43
The bias of the selection is evident, whatever may be its
explanation. Under the circumstances, and considering my own
strong interest in the work of the S.P.R., it is not surprising
that the greater number of names occurring in the script should
be those of persons intimately associated with that work ;
nor is it surprising to find a considerable number of references
to my husband and my daughter,—both of them interested in
the production of these automatic phenomena. But I should
not have expected to find so complete an omission of other
friends of mine, living or dead, very intimately associated
with me and constantly represented in other uncontrolled
conditions of my mind, for instance in dreams. Thus,
there is no reference whatever to my mother, who died
some twelve years ago, nor to my sister, and only one very
doubtful allusion to my father, both living. These three
relatives figure fairly often in my dreams, and I have had
some experiences suggestive of a telepathic connexion between
my sister and myself.1 Here again, as in the case of the
selection of languages,2 it is clear that the selecting agency
is not my normal self, nor even what a deliberate dramatisation
on my own part would suggest.
I take the cases in detail,3 beginning with the small group
of " miscellaneous " persons whose names appear in the script.
(I.) MISCELLANEOUS NAMES. 28.
The miscellaneous names may be classified under five
heads.
!See S.P.R. Journal, IX., p. 134. 2See p. 32.
3 I here discuss only cases where the actual name is found in the
script; there are some cases where subsequent information suggested
that allusions to particular persons were intended, but those are not
included in this classification.
LIII.] References to Living Acquaintances. 179
(1) Unintelligible Introductory Phrases. 2.
Twice where names occur at the beginning of a communi
cation they seem to be mere rubbish, used while getting under
way.
(2) Preliminary attempts at things later completely expressed. 5.
There are five possible instances of this. It seems occasion
ally as if in the effort to produce a particular word some
other word, quite incorrect but associated in idea, were first
produced, shaken out as it were from a bag of counters by
mistake. Thus I have little doubt that in the writing of
Dec. 10, 1901, "Mrs. Pattrick. Note the name—Hill Side
that's why I know," " Mrs. Pattrick " represents the first
emergence of the idea subsequently produced in " Hill Side."
Mrs. Pattrick is the name of a lady, an acquaintance of mine,
who lives in Hill Side, the house in Cambridge where Dr.
and Mrs. Sidgwick lived before they came to Newnham College.
Again on July 19, 1903, the name Horatio Brwwn (sic)
was followed by mere scribbles ; the name is naturally associated
with Venice, and the next writings, on July 21 and July 31,
1903, conveyed messages about Venice of possible evidential
value. I am inclined to think that the name Horatio Brown
emerged in approaching the idea of Venice.
(3) My own initials. 1.
These occurred once on April 19, 1901, in a passage written
with some urgency during a journey ; they may represent a
personal remonstrance or appeal. The script wrote : " Cant
you see ? cant you believe ? M. de G. V."
(4) Ambitious. 3.
Three times the name " Arthur " occurs in a hand quite
unlike my own, and quite unlike the rest of the writing in
the context. It is possible that the intention is to refer to
my husband, but as he is usually ! referred to by his initials,
A.W.V., or by description, as " your husband," I have not
counted these as allusions to him.
1 There is one exception; on Oct. 6, after a reference to the
Christian name of a brother, his own name Arthur is used.
180 Chapter IX. [PART
(5) Attempts to produce evidential matter. 17.
The remaining 17 instances (14 names, 3 being double) are
apparently attempts to produce verifiable matter, but some are
complete failures, some too vague to be tested, some not beyond
the range of my own guessing, and only five or six perhaps
correct.
Two of the latter refer to the same friend, Miss Jane
Harrison, and are the only references to her in the whole of
the script. On Jan. 29, 1902, the script wrote:
The little book was lost and is found with the pages faintly
numbered in ink at the top. written in on the right hand pages—
and a few words opposite. It opens badly—some is in pencil, it
is hard to read. There was a monogram two letters intertwined 1
like that. Perhaps Miss Harrison knows. It is not clear
yet.
I learnt on enquiry from Miss Harrison that she had mis
laid a small book containing notes about the subject of a lecture
which she was to give on Jan. 31. She had been looking for
the book " all the week," that is, between Jan. 24 and
Jan. 30, when I spoke to her. The book was an interleaved
text, so that, on opening it, there would appear on one side
the Greek text, on the other Miss Harrison's own notes in
ink and in pencil, undoubtedly " hard to read." But the
text was alternately on the right and on the left hand
page, and there was no monogram on the cover. The book
was found in time for the lecture, but its disappearance had
caused a good deal of annoyance to its owner during the four
or five days preceding my script.
The second reference to Miss Harrison was on Feb. 6,
1904, when she was with us in Algeria. It merely stated,
in a writing not mine, that the date ought to help Miss
Harrison to identify the supposed communicator :
It is for Jane show it to her, she will know what it means &
the date ought to help her February 6th long ago now,
Feb. 6 was in fact the birthday of a young sister of Miss
Harrison's who had died nearly thirty years before, and whom
1E.C. appear to be the letters, the E being reversed.
Liu.] References to Living Acquaintances. 181
I had never known. But neither the writing nor the attempt
at a signature recalled anything to Miss Harrison.
(II.) PERSONS KNOWN TO BE INTERESTED IN THE SCRIPT. 186.
We now come to references in the script to persons whose
known interest in the script or in its usual topics would make
the occurrence of their names likely.
(A) Persons already mentioned in script. 6.
I begin with some cases where the person referred to had
already been connected with the script before the actual
occurrence in the script of the name.
Mr. Marsh. 1.
On Sept. 19, 1903, Mr. Marsh, the subject of an apparently
successful prediction 1 in which, however, his name had not
been mentioned, was expected to stay with us. On Sept. 17
the scribe wrote : " Mr. Marsh has something to tell you
this week," but the statement proved incorrect.
Mr. F. 0. Constable. 1.
The experiments with Mr. Constable have been described
above.2 After the conclusion of the first, Mr. Constable and
I met, for the first time, in London on Dec. 9, 1902, and
some automatic writing produced by me in his presence,
contained a drawing of a chain and a reference to a cornelian
heart, which induced me to refer to Mr. Constable the remarks
which were made by the script, a few days later, on Dec. 14.
The links should help—a little golden chain—and a heart sus
pended—P atris eius in memoriam a little old fashioned por
trait, three curls on either side the face—no cap—in a gilt frame,
a miniature oval shaped—the neck is bare—the dress gray the
heart belongs to her but is not in the portrait—it was given after.
The experiment, as will be remembered, had concerned an
incident connected with Mr. Constable's mother and in the
course of our conversation he had mentioned that he had a
!See below, p. 331. "See pp. 168-173.
182 Chapter IX. [PART
portrait of his mother hanging up in his room. In answer to
my enquiries, Mr. Constable told me, in three letters written
on Jan. 1, 3 and 7, 1903, that there hangs in his study
a photograph of his mother which is an enlarged copy taken
from a small oval daguerreotype in a gilt frame. The hair
is shown in three curls1 on each side, and there is no cap.
The lady is wearing a brown velvet cloak and the neck is
somewhat conspicuously bare. She had and habitually wore
a long gold chain made of links, and on this chain a locket—
but not a heart, cornelian or otherwise ; the locket was given
to her in 1863, some years later than the date of the daguerreo
type portrait, which was probably taken in 1856 or 1857 for
a son who was going to India. The daguerreotype is now in
the possession of that son's daughter. It further appeared (1)
that till quite recently Mr. Constable had been under the
impression that the original from which his photograph had
been enlarged was not a daguerreotype but a miniature, and
(2) that to wear the neck bare was characteristic of the
lady.
It would thus seem as if there were some information
conveyed by the script definite enough to be evidential,
though not all the statements are correct. " The dress is
gray " is not correct ; no dress is visible in the picture, and
it has not been found possible to ascertain the colour of the
dress which was worn at the time ; the cloak is known to have
been brown, though naturally the photograph does not show
any colour. It is, however, possible to interpret the words
' the dress gray ' as suggesting that the general appearance of
the costume is gray (as in the photograph), not coloured (as in
a painting). " A heart " again is not a correct description
of the locket; a locket however, was (1) worn on a gold
chain, (2) is not shown in the picture, and (3) was given
to the lady after the picture had been taken. The details
of the description of the portrait are correct and the script
seems to have hit upon a characteristic touch in the " bare
neck."
1 The lady wore more than three curls on each side, but only three
are shown in the portrait, so that in this respect the script appears to
reproduce the actual picture rather than a general impression of the
lady herself.
Lin.] References to Living Acquaintances. 183
Mrs. Dew Smith. 4.
Besides the references to Mrs. Dew Smith aboved described 1
when I was definitely thinking of her before obtaining auto
matic scripts, there have been four others, on June 21, 1903,
Aug. 31, 1903, Dec. 7, 1903, and Dec. 23, 1904. The
third, Dec. 7, 1903, is a mere allusion to a visit that
she was to pay me and lays no claim to evidential or
other value ; the other three purport to convey information
unknown to me. They are as follows :
(a) June 21, 1903 (Switzerland).
What is Alice doing ? she has found a house now—ask. a little
house near a wood, with a sunny garden on one side.
I had not seen Mrs. Dew Smith since April and knew nothing
of her intentions : at the end of July, on returning from
Switzerland, I heard from her that she had been wanting to
find a small house in the New Forest with a garden, but
had no particular house in view.
(6) Aug. 31, 1903.
Tell Alice from me the pen [or pin] will be found and can
then be given back—But she is too anxious.
I was uncertain whether the word was pen or pin, and
asked Mrs. Dew Smith, when I saw her on Sept. 1, whether
she had lost either a pen or a pin. She said that she had
not. But the next day she remembered and told me that
on Aug. 31 she missed a little parcel of pens which she
valued and about which she had written to make enquiries.
The pens were eventually found, but not till some months later.
(c) Dec. 23, 1904.
Now give this message to Alice Dew. Her plan is a good
one & she should carry it out at once : I know there is some dis
approval but that will pass. She is quite right in her view. Tell
her that. tell her with emphasis. She is to do it & not be
deterred by their criticism.
She sat alone last night late but I could not make her hear. She
will remember the little tinkling bell. That will prove my truth.
^ee above, p. 173.
184 Chapter IX. [PART
In a letter of December 27, Mrs. Dew Smith told me in
answer to enquiries that for the last six months her mind
had been full of a plan for building a cottage to live in
at the end of the next year ; that there were difficulties in
the way, and that all her friends opposed her plans and
criticised the scheme. She had no site in view, but the
plans for the cottage were actually made and the main point
of adverse criticism was a very large room which she wished
to build.
She wrote from the country where she was staying with
a sister, and said that not being alone she had only once
since leaving town made automatic experiments. She had
unusual difficulty and obtained nothing. That was on Dec. 22
or 23. She also said that she had a strong impression of
hearing a little bell outside the house one evening and wondered
if it were a bicycle bell, but was not sure that it was on the
evening mentioned.
No one of these cases taken alone is of much evidential
value, but the three taken together perhaps show some reflexion
in the script of thoughts and actions telepathically or otherwise
not normally conveyed. The last in particular presents a
message which, though unfortunately vague, is distinctly ap
propriate, and the attempts to give corroborative evidence are
good as far as they go,—better certainly than I thought
likely at the time, for, believing Mrs. Dew Smith to be at
her own house in town, I thought it very improbable that
any tinkling bell would have been noticed.
(B) A. W. Verrall. 34.
Allusions by name, initials or description were made to
my husband on thirty-two occasions (twice referring to two
separate incidents) counted as thirty-four times. Many of these
allusions are clearly intended to be evidential, but some contain
only references to what has been said earlier in the script
or must otherwise be supposed known to me ; others again
are too vague to contribute anything verifiable. Those that
purport to be evidential may be classed under three heads,
which I here call Successes, Failures, and False Statements.
Under " Successes " I have counted cases where some correct
information seems to -have been conveyed, even where there
LIU.] References to Living Acquaintances. 185
are also mistakes. " False statement " is used when the
statement is ascertainably wrong ; " Failure," when for one
reason or another no test has been possible. The classification
has been made mainly with a view to clearness of treatment
and not for statistical purposes. It is as follows : 1
(a) Non-evidential - - - - - - 13
(5) Would-be evidential 21
viz. Successes - - - 10
False statements - - 3
Failures 8
Total .... 34
False Statements.
Three attempts to give something " wanted " or " thought
of " by my husband are certainly wrong. The only experiment
made by him in connexion with the script has been above
described ; it required no " woman's name," as suggested by
the script on Nov. 4, 1901. I learnt early in October, 1902,
of that experiment, and that knowledge of mine is probably
responsible for the incorrect suggestion (Oct. 27 and 31,
1902), that he had thought of something else for me to
produce.
Failures.
On July 8, 1901, the script produced what I took to
be a message to my husband from an unnamed person who
had known him at Trinity College. The vague reminiscences
recalled nothing to him. On Nov. 25, 1901, the College
friend of July 8 was certainly associated and perhaps identified
with Mr. F. M. Balfour. But my husband has not been able
to recall any special conversation such as is described, though
naturally, after 25 years, his memory is not very clear.2
1 A complete list is given in App., pp. 401-3. To enable the reader
to form some idea of the nature and value of references in the script
to specified persons I have dealt in detail with these references to
my husband, which are typical of the rest. In regard to other
persons so mentioned, I confine myself to classification and descrip
tion of selected instances.
2 See also p. 277.
186 Chapter IX. [PART
Two statements (Nov. 1, 1901, and Aug. 21, 1904) are
wholly unintelligible; another (Oct. 12, 1901) seems to be
partly a reminiscence of the attempts to guess /j.ovoTrw\ov
e? aw, and partly a confused attempt to say something about
Dr. Benson, the late Archbishop of Canterbury, who was
Head Master of Wellington College, when my husband was
at school there.
In October, 1902, the script described on two occasions
some purple garment laid aside in a chest with a lock of
gray hair and a toy or child's letter. In each case the
incident is connected by the script with my husband; on
Oct. 9 ! he is definitely stated to have seen it worn, and
on Oct. 31 the subject recurs immediately after a reference
to him. But in the absence of clear indication to whom to
apply, we have not been able to test this assertion.
An expression familiar to my husband 2 was given on Jan.
30, 1903, but in the impossibility of proving that it was
unknown to me, the incident is not evidential.
Successes.
Six of the ten cases where my husband's name occurs in
attempts, at least partially successful, to produce verifiable
unknown facts, deal with his thought-transference experiment,
and have been discussed above.3
Of the others, two apparently show telepathic knowledge
of things in his mind, unknown to me ; one perhaps shows a
confused impression of his future action, not at the time
within his knowledge ; the last is difficult to classify, and
may be a merely accidental coincidence.
I discuss these four in chronological sequence.
Script of April 14, 1902. This script was produced under
the following circumstances :
From April 9 to 12, 1902, my husband and I stayed together
at Wellington College, and I twice visited the chapel there
to see the new aisle 4 which had been built in memory of Arch-
1 The next paragraph of the script on Oct. 9, which seems to
show telepathic knowledge of my husband's thought, though there
is no explicit reference to him, is described below on p. 189.
2 See above, p. 138. 3See p. 156.
4 The original chapel, known well to my husband but not to me,
Lin.] References to Living Acquaintances. 187
bishop Benson. On the first occasion, April 10, I had gone with
the Head Master and some other visitors, and I then particularly
noticed the Credence table,1 for which my husband had written
an inscription. On the second occasion, April 11, my husband
and I were alone for some little time in the chapel, and after
noticing the general effect of the new aisle, looked in detail
at its glass. I read to him the inscriptions on the windows,
and we also looked at the commemorative tablets in the
corridor leading to the chapel. I have no recollection of looking
specially at the east end of the chapel.
On April 12 my husband and I separated, and on April 14
I went to visit a friend. While on my way, in the train, I
felt discomfort in my right hand, and, taking off my glove to
relieve it, suddenly experienced a desire to write automatically.
The script so produced began with two statements, afterwards
verified,2 and then, after an unintelligible remark and a long
line , came the following :
The chapel is too light—something has been taken away was it
a cross in the east ask if he noticed—I tried to show it you don't
understand—let me write Cant uar is sedile ubi nunc gentium?
non tuum respondere. defer alii. The angular writing, crabbed,
comes again, but you will not like this turn the last letter so no—
not that way m s t Verrall Verrall Verrall. V. VERRALL.
The writing throughout was in a more angular hand than
mine. The difference becomes more marked at the end.
The first words of the script suggested to me the chapel
at Wellington College, and the words ' Cant uar is sedile,'
an allusion to the Archbishop, seemed to confirm this view.
I could make nothing of the next three words s ' ubi nunc
gentium,' but the following words, ' It is not for you to
answer, ask some one else,' suggested that I should ask my
husband. I had not seen him since April 12th; he returned
had no aisles. In 1882, before I ever saw the chapel, a north aisle
had been added, but the south aisle was not added till 1902.
!The table had belonged to Dr. Benson, and had been given to
Wellington College Chapel after his death by Mrs. Benson.
2 See p. 305 for one of these.
3 Ubi gentium means " Where in the world ? " but ubi nunc gentium
can only be rendered "Where is now 'of the nations' (gentium)."
188 Chapter IX. [PART
home on the afternoon of April 18th, after I had copied the
script, and I showed it to him at once.
The opening words, " the chapel is too light," carried back
his thoughts at once to the early days of the original
aisleless chapel, and recalled his own view that the effect
of the original design had been injured by the addition of
the north aisle, which destroyed the proportions and, by its
new window at the west end, increased the light within the
building. The later words reminded him of an incident
associated with the eastern end of the chapel. This is
decorated below the lancet windows with heads in mosaic,
surrounded by inscriptions, and on one occasion, while he was
at school, he was present in the apse when Dr. Benson,
then Head Master, was showing these decorations to a visitor.
The visitor, looking at the crabbed characters round the head
of S. Paul, read the inscription out as ' Ductor Dubitantium,'
' Leader of the Doubting,' a mistake instantly corrected by the
Head Master to ' Doctor Gentium,' ' Teacher of the Nations.'
My husband has no recollection of having noticed the
mosaics on the occasion of this last visit on April llth,
1902, and was certainly not aware of having missed anything
in the apse, nor has he any recollection of having thought
of this incident either in the chapel, or on any other occasion,
till he read the script, since its occurrence some thirty-five years
ago. At the same time it seems to be very likely that the
difficulty which I had in deciphering the words in the windows
when we were together in the chapel on April llth revived
vaguely in his memory the earlier incident, when, owing to
a difficulty of deciphering, the two words doctor gentium were
misread.
I had no recollection of inscriptions in the mosaics ; when
my husband first spoke of an inscription I supposed him to
refer to lettering in the windows of the east end. It is,
however, certain that I have at some time seen the mosaic
inscriptions, as I have several times been into the chapel.
The head of S. Paul is on the right hand side, not far from
the Credence table, to which my attention had been specially
drawn on the preceding day, April 10th.
I have since ascertained, indirectly in 1903 and by per
sonal observation and inquiry in July, 1905, that no alteration
LIII.] References to Living Acquaintances. 189
has been made at the east end of Wellington College Chapel.
Nothing has been removed, and the inscription doctor gentium
in " angular and crabbed " letters, not easy to read, still
surrounds the head of S. Paul. It thus appears that there
is no truth in the suggestion—tentative, it is true, and
followed by the phrase which commonly shows recognition of
an error, " you do not understand "—that something had
been removed.
The reader who sees in this allusion in the script an
emergence of a submerged memory of my husband's may find a
parallel in the " herb moly " of the preceding autumn, which
was connected by the script, as it had once been in my
husband's mind, with the " solitary dawn," though at the time
of his attempt to get a reference to the solitary dawn in my
writing he had no associations of it with the herb moly.1
Script of Oct. 9, 1902.
On Oct. 9, 1902, I spent the day in town, leaving home
at 9.50 a.m. and returning at 9.10 p.m. In the train on
my way back, just before 8.55 p.m. I wrote automatically,
after a reference to my husband.
to the dark tower came who ? ask him who 1 and where ? The
tower was dark & cold, but we all loved it. he will remember
write regularly—there is truth in this.
The answer to the first question " Who ? " is clearly
"Childe Roland." The line " Childe Roland to the dark
tower came " is the opening of Edgar's song in King Lear
(Act III. Sc. 4) and the subject and title of a poem by
Browning. There is no context in the Shakespearean
passage, but Browning's poem describes the surroundings of
the tower, so that if the suggestion in the second question
" where ? " was to be pressed it seemed to me that Browning's
poem2 and not Shakespeare's song was indicated. But I
^ee above, p. 163.
2 I can see no special meaning in the words " The tower was
dark and cold but we all loved it." There is no hint of cold in
Browning's poem, though much talk of darkness ; and the " we "
who "all loved it" may be an allusion to the predecessors of
Browning's hero, who perished by the way in their attempt to
reach the tower.
190 Chapter IX. [PART
could find no reason for a reference to this poem in anything
I had done or thought about.
The " him " whom I was to ask seemed to point to my
husband, whose name had occurred just before. Accordingly,
the next morning I showed the script to him, and he at
once said that during my absence on the day before he
had been reading Browning and had especially read, more
than once, " Childe Roland." I had no reason whatever to
expect him to be reading Browning in general, or that par
ticular poem. The allusion to it in my script seems therefore
remarkable.
Script of Aug. 31, 1903.
The statements of the script of Aug. 31 1 may be thus
divided :
(1) Hugh will not go abroad next month he rests.
(2) then comes a hurried journey to the south and the long
break.
(3) Do not tell this to Arthur.
(4) It may not be quite right perhaps you do not understand
but there is sense & truth in it.
(5) You will know before Christmas.
In these statements it is possible to see a confused expres
sion of knowledge concerning the future certainly not possessed
by me at the time of writing. But the statements are not
definite, and at best the script seems to have confused two
incidents. The facts are as follows :
My brother in law, Hugh Verrall, who had been ill, was to
go abroad for a rest and change in September, 1903, and
the Italian Lakes was the suggested locality. This I heard
of about Aug. 22. He started in fact on Oct. 9, by Paris,
and reached the Italian Lakes after a slow journey and many
stoppings ; he returned to England early in December.
Early in November, 1903, my husband and I began to con
sider the suggestion of his doctor that we should go to Algeria
for the Christmas vacation, taking the journey out and back
as fast as possible so as to secure the utmost possible time
in Algeria. On Dec. 1, however, he decided to apply for
1 See App., p. 403.
LIII.] References to Living Acquaintances. 191
leave of absence for the Lent Term of 1904, and go away
for three or four months, so as to avoid undue haste on the
journeys. This we did, reaching our destination on Dec. 16.
There were thus two journeys taken abroad for health
by two members of the Verrall family in the autumn of
1903, one expected and one unexpected in August, 1903.
Of these five statements in the script :
(1) states the facts about Hugh correctly.
(2) goes on to speak of a " hurried " journey—a phrase not
the least applicable to the very slow journey to the Lakes
which was contemplated, as I knew, for Hugh—and, in
connexion with this journey, of a " long break." The long
break and the journey to the south are strictly applicable to
Arthur's actual journey, while the hurried journey to the
south is appropriate to what was first recommended by our
doctor, and was contemplated by us during the month of
November.
(3) seems superfluous if it means that Arthur was not to be
told of Hugh's movements, but has a certain appropriateness if
applied to Arthur's journey. My husband was unwilling to go
away at all, and the whole question was as little discussed
as possible, our ultimate decision being taken only ten days
before we left home.
(4) indicates error, though not complete error, in what
had been said before.
(5) unintelligible if referred to Hugh, is quite correct if
applied to Arthur's journey.
If this interpretation is correct, the script shows knowledge,
confused though it be, of what it was wholly impossible that
at the time of writing I should consciously know. At the
time, however, I took it to refer to the journey of my brother-
in-law, the only journey then in contemplation for any member
of the family.
Script of Oct. 3, 1904,
I find it impossible to classify this incident ; the reader
must judge whether or not there was any justification for
the evident belief of the script that it had this time made
a hit.
192 Chapter IX. [PART
On October 3, 1904, I went to town for the day. On the
way, in the train (10 a.m. from Cambridge), just after passing
Hatfield, my hand wrote :
Disappointments many but the end is sure. Now this is an
omen an omen in the proper sense. Note the name of the first
acquaintance you meet to-day and tell your husband; he will
understand.
Omen occasionis.*
That will come off—keep open wits.
In the train on the way home (5 p.m. from King's Cross) I
noted that the first, and indeed the only acquaintance whom I
met was Mr. White, a Cambridge don. I asked my husband
on my return if " White " answered to anything which had
been in his thoughts, but he said it did not. I then told
him what had occurred, and heard that on that afternoon,
between 3.30 and 4 p.m., when he was on his tricycle, he
had seen, from behind, some one whom he believed to be
the Mr. White in question. He was much surprised to
hear that I had seen him in London at 11.20 a.m., but
on consideration said that he could not assert that the man
he saw in Cambridge was Mr. White, though he should certainly
have asserted it but for my seeing him in town. For Mr.
White to have been where my husband thought he saw him
before 4 p.m. he must have left London at latest by the
12.40 p.m., which as he only reached it at 11.20 seems
unlikely. It is probable, therefore, that my husband was
mistaken in his impression, and the remarks of the script in
that case served to show his error. But what purpose was
so served it seems impossible to discover, and in any case
there was no sort of omen.1
(C) Helen de G. Verrall. 19.
The allusions in the script to my daughter are fewer
than those to my husband, and with two possible exceptions
valueless. Her name, Helen, occurs 19 times, but on two
* Trans. " Omen of opportunity."
1 It should however be noted that the script appears to use the
word omen in the sense of " evidence of supernormal faculty," or
" successful hit," without implying anything premonitory. See
below, pp. 223, 309.
LIU.] References to Living Acquaintances. 193
occasions the reference is stated by the script not to he to her,
and on two others there is no reason to suppose that she is
the Helen intended. But in the absence of any indication
of any other Helen, I have grouped together all references
to the name. Following the same classification as in the
case of A. W. Verrall, we have as follows :
(a) Non-evidential - - - - - 11
(&) Would-be evidential 8
viz. Successes (?) - 2
False statements - - 3
Failures - 3
Total, 19
(D) Mrs. Sidgwick and her brothers. 17.
For purposes of comparison I have again classified these
cases, as far as possible, under the same heads as before,
but in commenting on them it will be more convenient to
group them according to the various episodes to which they
refer. The classification is as follows :
(a) Non-evidential - ... 3
(6) Would-be evidential - - - 14
viz. Successes - - 2
False statements - 8
Failures - - - 4 —
17
Four of the allusions contain the incorrect suggestion 1 that
Mr. Gerald Balfour was concerned in the incident connected
with the words /movoTria\ov e? aw. Another is an attempt to
refer to something of evidential value. The statement is not
very definite and the script seems uncertain whether Mrs.
Sidgwick or Miss Johnson is the person who could corroborate
the story, but neither Mrs. Sidgwick nor Miss Johnson can
throw any light on the subject.
The script of November 22nd and 25th, 1901, attempted
to reproduce Mr. F. M. Balfour's handwriting. Comment on
this has been made above.2
!See above, p. 156. 2See p. 26.
194 . Chapter IX. [PART
On July 17th, 1901, an attempt was made to say some
thing of evidential value for Mrs. Sidgwick, but it was a
complete failure and recalled nothing to her.1
On July 23rd, 1901;, the script seems to have been more
successful. It wrote
Sidgwick wants to say something about a message—a missing
book. It ought to be found. It had dates in it-^a little book
kept by accident—there was something else in it. It fastens with
a strap—most of the leaves are torn out but March and May are
there, Mrs.- Sidgwick must look.
I sent the above to Mrs. Sidgwick at the end of July,
1901, and on August 1st she told me that she had many
little note books fastened with straps, containing occasional
notes, and that in some cases some of the leaves had been
torn out. On August 3rd she told me that she had found
one with leaves torn out, containing on its remaining leaves
dated notes referring to a certain incident. Other papers
referring to this incident were destroyed before Dr. Sidgwick's
death, but the notes in this book were apparently left
undestroyed by accident.
Six of the statements, two non-evidential, two false state
ments, and two failures2 seem to refer to a proposed
"test" of some kind. On October 10th, 1903, the script
suggested that Mrs. Sidgwick should be asked for a question
concerning Dr. Sidgwick to which only she knew the answer.
The script had for some time been writing about letters
apparently from or to Dr. Sidgwick and kept by Mrs. Sidgwick,
but the connexion between these letters and the proposed
test-question was obscure. On October 12th more was said
about the letters, and in , the next paragraph the script
said " Don't ask Mrs. Sidgwick yet." Early in December,
1903, I left England for Algeria. The script wrote on
December 25th: "Mrs. Sidgwick would know about the three
letters in the cabinet"; and on December 26th: "Mrs.
Sidgwick knows the letters in the cabinet, ask her."
On January 17th, 1904, it made further remarks about
1 See below, p. 278.
2 The statements have not yet. been tested.
tin.] References to Living Acquaintances. 195
"Mrs. Sidgwick's letter" and its contents, and OH July 13th,
1904, came a statement that an envelope containing a short
sentence written by Dr. Sidgwick was kept with two other
letters in " the Florentine cabinet." 1
The above allusions are too obscure for verification ; the last
twp seem to refer to a sealed envelope to be opened post
humously, but the two in December, 1903, may refer to something
quite different. Mrs. Sidgwick knows nothing of three letters
kept together, so that the two statements in December,
1903, are classified as false. The remarks of October 10th
and 12th,2 1903, are, as they stand, unevidential, but may
be connected with matter purporting, though so far unsuccess
fully, to be evidential. The script of October 10th apparently
supposes a connexion between the test-question and the letters
that have been preserved.
One of these allusions to Mrs. Sidgwick (April 27, 1901)
is more interesting and may perhaps justify its claim to
evidential value. I relate it in detail, beginning with the list
of appropriate extracts 3 from the script.
1. April 19th, 1901.
Deposui cum amico apud hortanos.4 roga multipliciter volumen
rolled and tied up pumice omnia aequata.5 haec cum legas tu
saepe diyis under the sofa in a blue cover Ask on Monday
don't hesitate—one at a time, only one. then you will know what
!For "the Florentine cabinet" see p. 197.
2 There is some interest attaching to the statement of October 10th,
and also to some words connected with it on January 17th, 1904.
This incident is further described below, p. 297.
3 In only one case did Mrs. Sidgwick's name appear in the script, on
April 27, but, as the reader will see, other passages in the script plainly
refer to the same subject.
4 The word hortani appears to be an adjective from a noun Horta.
Horta is the name (1) of a place in Etruria, probably called after
(2) an Etruscan goddess of Inspiring or Exhortation (irapop/iav,
hortari, see Plut. Qwest. Bom. 46). It is perhaps possible to read
the letters as horlarios, a non-existent and unintelligible word.
5 Referring to Catullus, XXII., 11. 8-9, where he describes a volume
of poems. The meaningless diyi's evidently represents Catullus'
caprimulgus.
196 . Chapter IX. [PART
I mean—stop— tu tu non alia fac mihi quod rogem. nunc nunc
in praesenti. instare—ne dubitaveris.*
2. April 27th, 1901.
The book is there, look for it well—you will find it No hurry,
tell Mrs. Sidgwick.1 . . . Why can't I go on. It seems so clear—
put it down—wrapped up. Look both of you non alii solaet—
under something blue—loose—low—you must stoop—to see it. Try
again. Go on, go on.
3. May 1st, 1901.
a jar—sweet scented and full. an arm-chair stood beside.
Can't you see now where it was [drawing of handle] handles like this
Dovinantis in ripa. non possum plurimum tibi
dicere. quare non capis? alia iam cepisti multo difficiliora.J Look
look, it will be opened for you.
4. May 3rd, 1901.
Describe nunc quod dictito, modo leges. Depositum in loco
bene descripto iam ante—sub pedibus § There is something blue
there but I can't say quite what. It moves like a drapery—not
a light blue not much of it. The jar belongs—it is higher—
in the same room—go in and look. There are books all about—
and a picture—a portrait perhaps in a frame. On the left hand
side. other things first. It is below. It is a test.
5. May 8th, 1901.
Wooden cases Florentine pattern. She will know.
It was obvious on reading the above extracts that an attempt
was being made to describe a particular room, a particular
* Trans. " I have placed it with a friend at the ' hortani ' (?),
ask very often a volume ... the whole thing smoothed off with
pumice. This—since you read often—goatskin— . . . you you not
another do for me what I ask now now at once, do it at once—
do not hesitate."
t Trans. " Not others you alone " (fem. plur.).
I Trans. "On the bank of the Dovinans (!) I cannot tell you
more, why do you not understand ? You have understood other
things before now much more difficult."
§ Trans. " Write down now what I dictate, presently you will read
it. Laid aside in a place well described before this—under one's feet."
!A vague remark on June 16th, 1901, "Mrs. Sidgwick will
know. There is no hurry" is perhaps a recurrence to this subject.
Lin.] References to Living Acquaintances. 197
place in that room, and something of the nature of a book
kept in that place. But at the time I did not identify the room.
Mrs. Sidgwick, to whom I referred the first sentences of April
27th, could make nothing of them. On May 18th I spoke
of the matter to Miss Johnson, in consequence of the veri
fication that day of another statement in the script of
May 8th,1 and she suggested that the description applied
to Mrs. Sidgwick's room at Newnham College with which I
was, of course, familiar. The window-seat, which is on the left-
hand side of the room to a person going from the door to the
fireplace, is fitted with cushions and had at the time a
valance made of a stuff of which the ground was blue. This I
did not remember, my impression being that the covering was
yellow, a colour which I find it originally had, but some time
before 1901 the coverings had been renewed with a stuff
of which blue was an important part. By the window
stands a table on which there are generally one or more
jars with flowers; on May 18th when I looked at the room
there was a jar filled with wallflowers. Near the table is
an arm-chair. On the opposite wall are book-cases, and
over one of these is a framed portrait of Dr. Sidgwick. There
is in the room a chest of drawers with a pattern inlaid in
wood, and metal handles, but the handles are not of the
shape drawn in the script. This chest is Florentine, having
been obtained at Florence and given to Mrs. Sidgwick as
a wedding present by two of her brothers. These facts about
the chest were quite unknown to me till I made enquiries
on May 18th, 1901.
Mrs. Sidgwick told me, on May 18th, that under the
drapery of the window-seat she kept a box containing im
portant papers, but she could think of nothing in the box cor
responding to the description in the script. It was not till
January 1st, 1905, that I ascertained on further enquiry
from Mrs. Sidgwick that among the papers in that box was
a privately printed pamphlet in a sealed envelope, given to Dr.
Sidgwick some years before. This sealed packet was taken
charge of by Mrs. Sidgwick in 1893, but she did not know
what it contained, and had so completely forgotten all about
it, that, as she wrote to me, " I was not aware of having
1 See pp. 207-209.
198 . Chapter IX. [PART
lost it until I found it," that is, in December, 1903. When
in the spring of 1901 (April or May), Mrs. Sidgwick was
asked if among Dr. Sidgwick's papers there was such a sealed
packet, she replied that there was not, having forgotten the
packet in the box.
It thus appears that at the time when enquiries were made
of Mrs. Sidgwick about a sealed packet the script was writing
a description of a place containing some sort of book,—a
place corresponding closely enough for identification with the
place where the missing pamphlet was.
(E) Members of the S.P.R 67.
The members of the S.P.R. mentioned are :
Professor Richet - - 1
Sir Lawrence Jones - 1
Miss Alice Johnson - - 1
Sir Oliver Lodge - - 11
Mr. Piddington - - 13
Dr. Hodgson - - - - 40
They may be classified as follows :
.
Single Instances.
(a) Non-evidential 1
(&.) Would-be evidential - . 2
viz. Success - 0
False statement- 1
Failures - - 1 —
Sir Oliver Lodge.
(a) Non-evidential ----- 6
(&) Would-be evidential 5
viz. Successes - - 2
False statement - 1
Failures - - 2 —
11
nil.] References to Living. Acquaintances. 199
Mr. Piddington.
(a) Non-evidential - - .- - 9
(1) Would-be evidential - - - - 4
viz. Successes - - 2
False statement - 1
Failure - - 1 —
13
Dr. Hodgson.
(a) Non-evidential - - - - - 17
(6) Would-be evidential - -23
viz. Successes - - 12
False statements 2
Failures - - 9 —
40
Single Instances. 3 cases. """"
The reference to Professor Richet is unintelligible ; the
reference to Miss Johnson, which has been already noted,1
is incorrect, and the reference to Sir Lawrence Jones is too
vague to be tested.
Sir Oliver Lodge. 11 cases.
Most of the references to Sir Oliver Lodge are of a general
nature and fail, even when so intended, to be evidential.
Four of them connect his name with that of Mrs. Thompson,
and of these one2 is evidential and one other claims with
out success to be so. Three refer in general terms to the
importance of obtaining Sir Oliver Lodge's opinion of the
script. Two others lack precision and one is definitely false.3
One case remains for comment here.
On July 23rd, 1901, when I was in Switzerland and
Sir Oliver Lodge in England, the script wrote :
magno tumultu super maria in praesenti iam navi longa—non
Romano sensu—volitat. Pulsat machina vibrat navis in quinques
dies oras attinget—notare.* To Lodge he goes first to lodge—
* Trans. " In rough weather (?) over the seas now this moment
in a long ship—not in the Roman sense—he flies. The engine
throbs, the ship quivers in five days he will reach the shores
—note it."
!See p. 193. 2See page 208. 3See below, p. 301.
200 Chapter IX. [PART
tell him what I say shew him what you write It will help. Some
thing of importance has happened since you have been away—write
to Lodge and tell him I have said so. It has to do with Hodgson.
On July 28th, 1901, I wrote from France to Sir Oliver
Lodge, inclosing him the above extract, which was unintelli
gible to me. The description of the large steamer—not a
man-of-war—coming to England had suggested to me Dr.
Hodgson, who, as I knew, was expected in England about the
middle or end of July. But I expected him to come straight
to Cambridge, and in fact he did.
On July 30th the script, after my return to England,
made what appeared to be an addition to the above or a correc
tion of it ; for though Sir Oliver Lodge's name does not occur,
the word "notare" is repeated and is followed by the words,
obviously alluding to the "five days" of the script of July 23 :
You have it not quite right. Try again. . . . Ask if on the
28th that makes 5 days.
The name is wrong. Thaumas is more like but I can't
get it.
The first sentence, written before I had heard from Sir Oliver
Lodge or knew anything of Dr. Hodgson's movements, I took
to be a correction of the name Hodgson in the earlier script.
The remark about " Thaumas," beginning as it did a new
paragraph, I took to be a new incident, as I had learnt by
this time that a new paragraph invariably indicated a change
of subject. But as the only person indicated for reference
was Sir Oliver Lodge, plainly referred to in the first paragraph,
I wrote to him to ask " if the name Thaumas had any meaning
for him."
There were thus two points referred to Sir Oliver Lodge :
(a) the statement of July 23rd, which I took to be substantially
but not wholly correct, and (&) the reference to " Thaumas " on
July 30th. The facts were as follows:
(a) On July 31st I heard from Sir Oliver Lodge that the
remark about " something of importance " having happened
seemed intelligible to him, and that in connexion with it some
one had come to him from America, reaching Birmingham on
July 28th, i.e. five days after the 23rd, though the ship must
have "reached the shores" of England on the 27th. The only
LIII.J References to Living Acquaintances. 201
sense in which the words " it has to do with Hodgson " can be
interpreted is that later in the year, Sir Oliver Lodge's visitor
and Dr. Hodgson returned to America in the same ship. But
it is much more likely that the mention of a ship and of an
arrival reminded me of Dr. Hodgson's coming, and so intro
duced his name.
(&) On July 29th, 1901, Mr. K W. Thomas applied to
Mr. Piddington for the post of Organising Secretary to the
S.P.R., and gave my husband's name as a reference. Mr.
Piddington sent the letter on to Sir Oliver Lodge, who received
it on July 31st. I knew nothing about applications for the
post in question till, on August 3rd, I heard at the Council
meeting that the selected candidate was called Thomas, and
Mr. Thomas was in fact appointed. Mr. Thomas had been
well known to us when he was in Cambridge, but we had
no knowledge of his occupation or intentions. At the tune,
then, when the script wrote of " Thaumas " in such a way as
to make me connect the reference with Sir Oliver Lodge,
there was a reason for connecting the two.
Mr. Piddington. 13 cases.
Far the greater number of the references to Mr. Piddington
are of a perfectly general character ; " tell Piddington this," or
" tell Piddington, he will know why," and so on. There are
eight of these vague statements. The remaining five all concern
Mrs. Thompson, one being, so far as can be ascertained, mean
ingless and another at least partially incorrect.
The remaining three are these :
1. On May 18th, 1902, the script wrote in a larger hand
than my own, somewhat resembling that of Mrs. Thompson,1
as follows :
Rosie Thompson not the mother, tell Mr. Piddington this—some
thing has happened to her just lately but they need not be
alarmed. at the school. Mrs. Thompson was there I saw it
through her. Do not forget.
iSee below, p. 211, for a case where another apparent reference to
Mrs. Thompson's daughter is also made in a larger handwriting
than my own. In that case it directly purports to represent one
of Mrs. Thompson's controls, Mrs. Cartwright.
202 Chapter tx. [PART
I sent the above script to Mr. Piddington as directed, and
learnt from him that Mrs. Thompson took her daughter Rosie
to school at Bournemouth1 on May 7th, 1902, and saw her there
again on May 9th. On Friday and Saturday, May 16th and
17th, Rosie Thompson was in bed with a bad cold and neuralgia.
A letter from her on May 20th to her mother says that she
came down to dinner on Sunday 18th, and went back to bed
at 4.30. But as she is rather subject to bad colds, her mother
was not anxious. The script then was apparently justified
in saying that to Rosie Thompson something had happened
just lately at the school which was not cause for alarm.
But the incident is not distinctive enough for evidential
purposes.
2. On October 7th, 1903, after writing about some letters
of Dr. Sidgwick's, the scribe added in a new paragraph the
words : " Tell Piddington to ask Mrs. Thompson about
Sidgwick's three envelopes." I sent this message to Mr.
Piddington by the evening post of October 7th. At the
time I knew nothing of his plans nor of Mrs. Thompson's.
I heard from Mr. Piddington on October 8th that he had an
appointment to see Mrs. Thompson on that afternoon, and- so
an opportunity to ask the question. That evening, after I
had heard from Mr. Piddington, the scribe wrote : " Mrs.
Thompson does not know those letters, but what Piddington
hears from her will help you to understand." It was true
that Mrs. Thompson did not know of the letters, but nothing
that she said to , Mr. Piddington has thrown any light on the
letters.
Dr. Hodgson. 40 cases.
Rather more than half of the large number of references
to Dr. Hodgson are of a vague and non-evidential character,
even when an attempt at evidential matter may be detected.
On the other hand the proportion of successes among the
would-be evidential cases is high, and some of the successes
are striking. Twenty-three of the references are of the following
type : " Hodgson will be a help," " Hodgson is pleased," " you
should see Hodgson," " Hodgson will understand," " I should
like Hodgson to know this." In four cases there is a sug-
1 I knew that Rosie Thompson was going to school after Easter.
LIII.] References to Living Acquaintances. 203
gestion, sometimes amounting to a statement, that Dr. Hodgson
would be in England and able to see the script. This has
not been the case, so that the whole script has never been
shown to Dr. Hodgson, though he was informed of all actual
references to himself.
A definite message was apparently intended for Dr. Hodgson
on December 12th, 1901, and I sent him the following words:
In hoc signo vincit amor.*
Tell Hodgson the last.
They had -no significance for him. They were however preceded
by the words : " Crosses three + + + and a dividing line ,"
and it is possible that it was intended to refer to the use of
Kector's Greek cross.1 But as I had attached no significance
at that- time to the cross, Greek or otherwise, I did not send
the words about the crosses to Dr. Hodgson.
It is probable that the same thing happened in other
instances, and that things remain unintelligible to me which
would have been found to have a meaning had they been
shown to Dr. Hodgson. Even in the case of the successful
references to Dr. Hodgson, though I. have letters from him
confirming the statements of the script, the letters do not
contain the details necessary for the reader's comprehension of
the incidents. I had hoped to obtain these from Dr. Hodgson,
when he had read the proofs of this paper, but his death in
December, 1905, has deprived me of his help. Under these
circumstances I confine myself here to the above classification
of the references to Dr. Hodgson. Such matters as I have
been able to make intelligible are related in Chapters XII.
and XIII., as isolated incidents.
(F) Other friends. 43.
The 43 allusions to other friends may be thus classified :
(a) Non-evidential - - - - - 20
(&) Would-be evidential - - 23
viz. Successes - - 6
False statements 5
Failures - - 12 —
Total, 43
* Trans. " In this sign love conquers." 1 See above, p. 79.
204 Chapter IX. [PART
GENERAL COMMENT ON ABOVE.
In the above chaos it is difficult to see any order, and
any attempt to draw general conclusions would be mislead
ing. But two points may be emphasised,—the comparative
narrowness of the field of selection, and the want of uni
formity as to results. The narrowness of the field has been
noticed above, and may no doubt be explained by some
process of unconscious selection.
No less noteworthy is the variation in the type of remark
made about the selected persons, and for this it is difficult
to account by any process of selection, conscious or unconscious.
Why, for instance, should the remarks concerning Mrs. Dew
Smith be almost without exception interesting while those
about Dr. and Mrs. Leaf1 are wholly valueless ? Again, why
is there so marked a difference in the evidential value of
the references respectively to my husband and my daughter ?
It is not likely that my own impression or expectation
would account for the marked difference. I should have
prima facie anticipated greater success in obtaining tele
pathic connexion with my daughter than with my husband,
for whereas my husband has no automatic faculty whatever,
there is reason to believe that such faculty is possessed by
my daughter, and it is certain that success has attended
experiments in thought-transference between her and me.2
And yet out of the thirty-four references to my husband,
ten (or, excluding the special experiment tried by him, out
of twenty-three, four) are at least partially correct, whereas
only one of the eighteen similar references to my daughter
is of any interest at all. Among the other persons mentioned,
Dr. Hodgson's name is connected with a greater number of
successes than any other. These are points for consideration ;
I have no explanation to suggest.
1 References by name to these intimate friends of mine are four,
counted above under (F) as two non-evidential and two false state
ments. One possibly evidential incident is related below, p. 285,
but there the script mentioned no name.
2 See Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XL, p. 174.
LIIL] Cross-Correspondences with other Sensitives. 205
CHAPTER X.
REFERENCES TO OTHER " SENSITIVES " ; CROSS-
CORRESPONDENCES.
IT is not without intention that in the above discussion of
"messages" to or about identifiable persons I have omitted all
references to " sensitives," to persons, that is, who are in the
habit of obtaining automatic phenomena. I use this phrase in
a perfectly general sense, to include crystal-gazing, planchette
or pen-writing, trance utterances, etc.; in fact all the forms of
sensory and motor automatism, without any pre-judgment as
to the cause of those phenomena. In a paper, of which the
main purpose is the classification of observed facts, it seems
wiser to unite in a separate group references to persons
distinguished from the majority by the habitual production
of automatic phenomena.1
The next two chapters deal with references in the script to
four sensitives.
As I have stated above, I am not here dealing with
experimental cases, and shall therefore say nothing of the
writing obtained when definite experiments were made with
two other automatists. Nor shall I discuss some apparently
spontaneous connexions between my script and the automatic
writing of a lady with whom at the suggestion of Miss Johnson
I subsequently attempted some experiments in the summer of
1905, but of whose name I was then ignorant and whose
acquaintance I made only in November, 1905. There seems
no doubt that " cross-correspondences " exist between her
automatic writing and mine, but the examination and discussion
'I say "habitual," as I believe the possession of the faculty to
be much commoner than is generally supposed. But for my purposes
a distinction can be drawn between those who habitually obtain
automatic phenomena and those who do not.
206 -. -•;,,;;-, - >-, Chapter X. [PART
of such correspondences fall outside the period dealt with in
this paper.
The four sensitives referred to in my script are (1) Mrs.
Archdale, (2) Mrs. Thompson, (3) Mrs. Piper, (4) Mrs. Forbes.
To the discussion of these references I shall not apply any
statistical method. Where all is tentative and undetermined,
it might be misleading to classify. Even in the preceding
chapter classification presented difficulties. It was not always
easy to distinguish between evidential and non-evidential
matter ; where I have seen partial success, some critics
might see only failure. "On the other hand it should be
remembered that I have classed as failures incidents in which
a closer examination, or a more complete, knowledge, might
see some success. But the difficulty of clear ; division into
' good ' and ' bad ' is increased in the case of sensitives where
the record is, so to speak, double, being registered at both
ends of the line. Any attempt therefore at classification in our
present state of knowledge would, I conceive, be mischievous,
and I shall relate these incidents in chronological order.
(1) MRS. ARCHDALE.
On October 25th, 1901, Mr. Piddington told me about a,
lady, Mrs. Archdale, who was obtaining automatic writing.
He suggested that I should try to obtain in my script a word
to be reproduced in Mrs. Archdale's writing. As I had never
heard of the lady before this, the experiment, if successful,
would be interesting. A day or two later Mr. Piddington
wrote to me giving me some details to help in the experi
ment, and mentioned that the name of the supposed control
of Mrs. Archdale, her son, was Stewart. T remembered that
the name had occurred in my script in a passage conveying
no meaning to me, and I accordingly looked it up and sent
it to Mr. Piddington. It was as follows : September 18th, 1901.
Women are bound or abound. Stewart and Haslemere—what
do they here 1 Hazelrigg is better.
On November 4th I heard from him : " There is a clear
connection between Stewart Archdale and Haslemere. Hazelrigg
seems to be an attempt to mention another name connected
Lin.] Cross-Correspondences with other Sensitives. 207
with the boy's life, but the association is quite distinct
from Haslemere. Hazelrigg is nearly, but not quite, right"
This seemed promising; the three names had occurred in
the script five weeks before I heard of Mrs. Archdale, but after
Mr. Piddington had -made her acquaintance, although he knew
nothing of any connexion between Stewart and Haslemere, or
of the other name- suggested by Hazelrigg. But no further
development occurred.1
(2) MRS. THOMPSON.
The name of Mrs. Thompson occurs with some frequency
in the script throughout the years 1901, 1902, and 1903. In
that there is nothing remarkable. I sat with Mrs. Thompson2
frequently in the two years preceding the inception of my
script, and was much impressed with the value and interest
of her trance utterances. Like all her friends I was sorry to
learn, as I did from her in the middle of March, 1901, that
she was going to give no more sittings.
The first four references to Mrs. Thompson make parts of
a single episode. They are as follows :
(1) May 1st, 1901.
Before 17th it is easier now to write.
(2) May 3rd, 1901.
ROSA THOMPson could perhaps but I don't know.
(3) May 8th, 1901.
Nescio quid3 interponit se tuae menti mihi que. In a glass is
truth—reversed—read and then search. Falsehood is never far
away. Quid mihi vis? non possum, desine. &C4-1 o/r>v die finite,*
nivSa * clock and time 4 H. No power—doing something else
to-night. Note hour.4
* Trans. " Something or other interposes between your mind and
me ... What do you want of me 1 I cannot, leave off ...
when the day is finished (?) listen (?)."
1 See App., p. 403, for list of all references to the subject.
2 See my paper on Mrs. Thompson's Trance Phenomena in Proc.
S.P.R., Vol. XVII., .p. 164.
3 After a remark on the difficulty of communicating.
4 Here were some attempts at drawing.
208 Chapter X. [PART
(4) May llth, 1901.
Before the 17th wait Rosa Thompson will speak—Lodge will
tell you. Wait. Do not hurry date this.
The script on May 8th was written between 10 and
10.30 p.m. The following note was made on May 9th, 9.45 a.m.,
when I copied the script into the book: "I thought that,
after the Greek, I was looking at the face of a clock, the
time being 10.25 ; I fancied that I was drawing this, but had
no idea that I had written the words, ' clock and time.' The
words ' falsehood . . . away ' are in quite a different [and
unknown] hand."
It is clear, and I recognised it at the time, that two asser
tions are made in the above four extracts, viz. (I) that before
the 17th 1 Mrs. Thompson would say something of which I
should hear through Sir Oliver Lodge, and (2) further, that
on May 8th at 10.25 p.m. a "control," claiming to be H., a
friend of mine, was "communicating" elsewhere.2
As noted above, I knew that Mrs. Thompson was not giving
sittings, and I in no way associated her with the remarks of
my script on May 8th, where, as will be observed, there is no
mention of names either of persons or places. The expectation
that I formed, so far as I formed any, from the remarks of
the script on May 1, 3, 8, and 11, 1901, was that I was to be
informed by Sir Oliver Lodge at the Council meeting on May
17th of something learnt by him from the normal Mrs. Thompson
—not her trance-personality—and that some medium had
received an ostensible communication from H. just before
10.30 p.m. on May 8th.
The facts are these: Mrs. Thompson, of whose movements
I knew nothing, went to stay in Birmingham in May, and
!May 17th was the date of the next Council meeting of the S.P.R.
2 For first assertion see script of May 1, May 11, and perhaps
May 3 ; for second assertion see May 8. The suggestions on May 1
that something is to happen 'before 17th,' and on May 3 that
" Mrs. Thompson would perhaps " do something, are combined and
defined on May 11, and reinforced by the statement that I shall
hear of Mrs. Thompson's speaking from Sir Oliver Lodge. This is
a characteristic instance of the development of an incident in the
script, of which I have spoken above, p. 56.
tin.] Cross-Correspondences with other Sensitives. 209
dined with Sir Oliver and Lady Lodge on May 8th, 1901.
Unexpectedly and spontaneously she went into trance between
9 and 10.30 p.m., and was " controlled," not only by the usual
Nelly, but also by H. In the course of the sitting this
latter ' control ' used the words " falsehood creeping in," and
said that some one was " calling him " elsewhere. Quite at
the end of the sitting, which concluded at 10.30, Nelly repeated
that some one was at that moment (" now ") calling H.
I learnt of this sitting in the following manner : On May
14th I had a letter from Mr. Piddington in which occurred
a phrase suggesting that Sir Oliver Lodge had lately seen
Mrs. Thompson. On May 17th, at the S.P.R. Council Meeting,
Sir Oliver Lodge was not present, but Mr. Piddington then
gave me Sir Oliver Lodge's notes of the sitting with Mrs.
Thompson on May 8th, which he thought it would interest
me to read.1
It will thus be seen that the two assertions of the script
were justified; (1) before the 17th Mrs. Thompson did speak,
as I learnt from the notes of Sir Oliver Lodge; (2) on
May 8th, at 10.25 p.m., the H. 'control ' was ostensibly occupied
in communicating elsewhere, as recorded in those notes. A few
more instances of such " cross-correspondences " as these would
greatly strengthen the evidence for telepathy.
The next two references to Mrs. Thompson on May 28th
and June 23rd, 1901, are unintelligible. On May 28th, in the
midst of a confused statement, came the words " the date is
important—get it right. Through Mrs. Thompson." But nothing
has been discovered to throw light on this script. On June 23rd
the words, " Mrs. Thompson : Lodge will understand," were inter
jected without reference to the context.
Some vague allusions to the probability of Mrs. Thompson's
resuming sittings before long followed in the next few months.
But it was not till after I had seen Mrs. Thompson, at a
meeting of the S.P.R., when I read a paper about my script,
that the script contained a definite reference to her. After
the meeting on April 20th, 1903, as we were parting, Mrs.
Thompson asked me to try for automatic writing between
9 and 10 in the evening of April 22nd. I understood that
1 Mr. Piddington knew nothing about my script of May 8th.
210 Chapter X. [PART
she would try something similar at the same hour. On that
evening I obtained automatic writing and also Planchette-
writing with my daughter. The script produced soon after
9 was as follows :
There is some one with Mrs. Thompson, another woman, taller
and slighter—she helps her to write—the message is not clear to
you. I do not know the house. I cannot take you there.
Later, on April 30th, 1903, before I had heard anything
from Mr. Piddington, who was to act as intermediary between
Mrs. Thompson and me, my script produced another obvious
allusion to the same incident in the words :
Mrs. Thompson named a name, but not yours—Nelly could help
if she could come—she finds it hard to write, and would easily
speak.
On May 1st I heard from Mr. Piddington that on the evening
of Wednesday, April 22nd, Mrs. Thompson and a friend, unknown
to me, a taller and slighter woman than Mrs. Thompson, had
taken part in experiments in the rooms of the S.P.R. During
those experiments the name of my daughter was mentioned by
Mrs. Thompson, but my own name was not. Mrs. Thompson
knew nothing of my daughter's experiments in automatic writ
ing, and no one but ourselves knew that on the evening in
question, April 22nd, my daughter tried Planchette with me, and
also obtained script alone. It appears then that the statements
of the script of April 22nd and 30th, 1903, were true as far
as they went, and they were certainly quite contrary to my
own impression. I had no idea that Mrs. Thompson was
taking part in any experiment, and fully expected that
at the hour arranged she would be alone and at her own
house.
It is possible to see in a piece of script written on Friday,
April 24th, 1903, an attempt to describe the rooms at Hanover
Square as the locality indicated in the preceding script of April
22. After the word " Wensday " (so spelt) it went on :
the case has been identified—but they wait for more about the
room. There is a portrait hanging near the fire. Edmund Gurney
books in cases in the room—no coloured picture.
LIII.] Crosa-Correspondencen with other Sensitives. 211
Those who know the rooms in Hanover Square will recognise
the intention in the above, and April 22nd, the day of the
experiment with Mrs. Thompson, was a Wednesday.
Two references in October, 1903, to an incident already
described,1 two unevidential allusions, and one vague and
unverifiable statement complete the list of references to Mrs.
Thompson.
There are two allusions in the script to one of Mrs. Thomp
son's trance-personalities, a certain Mrs. Cartwright.2 The
first, on November 25th, 1901, comes after an apparent attempt
to produce something evidential.
A solicitor known to a friend of yours. Hugh Chesson at some
place that ends in Chester—Godmanchester perhaps. It is Mrs.
Cartwright writing—I have found her.
But nothing has been made of these names. The other refer
ence to Mrs. Cartwright is perhaps more intelligible, though
here, too, it is at best doubtful whether there is any real
intention in the confused phrases of the script. As, however,
this paper is a record, not of successes but of incidents, I will
describe this tangled story.
On February 1st, 1904, after other matter the script wrote
two separate paragraphs as follows :
Write the sound. Fin is ill 3—Fin do you not hear 1 R get the
next word for me. Fin-sway that is the sound—listen again fin
sway out in on say that write that sound in sense. Outinon. Fin is
way out Inn no—not right It is a message about Fin—it is urgent.
let 4 me say it. It is a sudden illness which she sees will come to
her sister—this is Mrs. Cartwright speaking—she wants you to know.
Not in her own house in london, somewhere else. Tell someone this.
This was followed by the remark :
We had another message but this was urgent—write to-morrow
for ours.
It is possible that the two paragraphs of the script are
unconnected ; the second paragraph does not contain the word
!See p. 202. "See S.P.R. Proc., Vol. XVII., p. 184.
3 Words in italics are in a larger character.
4 Before " let " are some illegible strokes.
212 Chapter X. [PART
"Fin," which is apparently the leading word in the first. On
the other hand, the larger handwriting is of the same type
throughout both paragraphs, and the notion of illness occurs
in both. The second paragraph, with its mention of Mrs.
Cartwright, plainly alludes to Mrs. Thompson, but it is not
clear whose sister is to have an illness. My impression,
recorded before any attempt at verification, was that the
intention of this second paragraph is to suggest that "Nelly"
is announcing the approaching sudden illness of her sister, an
illness which is to occur not in Mrs. Thompson's London house.
The R, the initial of Mrs. Thompson's Christian name as well
as of that of her eldest daughter, taken in conjunction with the
similarity of the larger handwriting, suggests a closer connexion
between the two paragraphs than is otherwise apparent. But
the first paragraph seemed wholly inapplicable to Mrs. Thomp
son until I heard from her on August 2nd, 1904, after a long
gap in our correspondence, "you will be surprised to hear we
are leaving London and going into the country (Finchley)."
It then occurred to me as possible that in the earlier paragraph
there was an attempt—confused and fragmentary at best—to
allude to the removal of Mrs. Thompson out of London to
Finchley, represented by the words " Fin is way out." But
this is very uncertain, and even if this suggestion were accepted,
an explanation is still to seek of the supposed prophecy of
sudden illness to Miss Rosie Thompson not in her own house
in London.
I have recently (May, 1906) ascertained from Mrs. Thompson
that the idea of moving to Finchley was not entertained till
early in the summer of 1904, and that the actual move was
made in December, 1904. Mrs. Thompson also informs me
that Miss Rosie Thompson has had only one sudden illness
in her life ; that was in June, 1905, when she was staying in
her uncle's house in Birmingham. The illness was very sudden,
and Miss Thompson's father was sent for. As soon as she
could be moved, Mr. Thompson brought her home to Finchley.
(3) MRS. PIPER.
I have separated, so far as I could, the allusions to Mrs.
Piper and to her trance-personalities from the allusions to
LIII.] Cross-Correspondences with other Sensitives. 213
Dr. Hodgson. The first occasion on which there appears in
the script anything possibly bearing on statements in Mrs
Piper's trance1 is December 10th, 1901.
Betwixt dark and light a grey figure in the bedroom not [to
be feared]2 you will see on an anniversary—note the date—this
year. Put the [conversation],2 on [paper]2 that is all I can
see. Try other nights.
No grey figure was seen by me, or as far as I can ascer
tain, by any member of my household on any date, anniversary
or otherwise, in 1901. On January 28th, 1902, in Mrs. Piper's
sitting3 a reference was made by the control to a "vision"
of a figure which it was said had been seen by my daughter
when she was not asleep, but in a bedroom. The date of the
supposed " vision " was not definitely stated, but referred to as
recent.
No trace of such appearance to my daughter4 or myself has
been found. The script of December 10th, 1901, warning me of
the possibility of some such appearance makes it probable that
I should have noted any impression, however slight, of the
sort. There is however possibly a " cross-correspondence "
between the reference of my script on December 10th to an
apparition that was to be—an apparition " betwixt dark and
light in a bedroom"—and the statement of Mrs. Piper's trance
personality on January 28th, 1902, that part of a figure had
been visible to my daughter in a bedroom when she was not
asleep. My script contains no other references to apparitions.
The next incident is of a very different type, being one of
the most striking instances of a cross-correspondence that has
occurred in my experience. On January 31st, 1902, I had
been lunching with Mr. Piddington in town, and after the
arrival of Sir Oliver Lodge from Birmingham, was about to
walk with them to the S.P.R. Council Meeting at 3 p.m.,
1 I should say that I have seen very few records of Mrs. Piper's
unpublished sittings.
2 Words in brackets almost undecipherable.
3 I quote from the report of a sitting on January 28th, 1902,
sent by Dr. Hodgson.
4 For possible confusion between me and my daughter, see follow
ing incident.
214 Chapter X. [PART
when I felt suddenly so strong a desire to write that I came
down and made an excuse1 for not accompanying the gentle
men, saying I would drive later. As soon as they had started
I wrote automatically in the dining-room the following words :
Panopticon <r<t>aipas emTaAAei vvvBey/j.a /jLV(TTIKJIV. ri OVK JSiSa>s -,
volatile ferrum—pro telo impinget.
A few more words were added, when I was interrupted
by Mr. Piddington, who had returned, in order to drive with
me to the meeting. All the rest of the day I felt a wish
to write, and finally in the train on the way home to Cam
bridge more script was produced. That script2 contained no
verifiable statement but was signed with two crosses, one of
them being the Greek cross definitely stated elsewhere in the
script to be the sign of Rector.3
The curious opening words interested my husband, who saw
them on February 1st, 1902, as well as myself, but we could
not find any application for the Greek (or quasi-Greek)
though the meaning is pretty clear. Panopticon is not a
Greek word, and it is difficult to make out what it is sup
posed to mean, beyond saying that it contains the ideas of
" universal " (irav) and " seeing " (OTTTIKOV). It is noticeable
that this word, apparently but not really Greek, is written in
Roman letters, the genuine words next after it being written
in Greek characters. The word cmrdXXei, " tends, cherishes,
fosters," is not a common one, though it occurs in Homer,
Theocritus, and Pindar ; * a-vvSey/j-a is not an existing Greek
word, but is legitimately formed as a noun from the verb
<5e'xo/uaj, " I receive," compounded with the preposition crw,
"with," and means "joint-reception" or "common reception."
The whole sentence therefore seems to mean that some sort
of universal seeing " of a sphere fosters .the mystic joint-
reception."
1 The original account of this incident, written in 1902, bears
on the margin corroborative notes by Sir Oliver Lodge and Mr.
Piddington.
"The whole script will be found in App., p. 404.
3 See above, p. 78.
4 Pindar, Nem. 3. 99. Fennell there translates it "developes."
LIII.] Gross-Correspondences with other Sensitives. 215
The next words mean "Why did you not give1 it?" The
Latin words may be translated : " the flying iron—ferrum
(iron) for telum (weapon)—will hit."
The Latin words suggested the hurling of a spear, and on
February 7th, 1902, after looking up some passages, I noted
that volatile ferrum is used by Virgil for a spear. The more
common phrase, volatile telum, which is used by Lucretius
and Ovid for a spear, is also applied by Ovid to an arrow.2
I therefore took this passage to refer to a " spear," described
as "the winged iron,"—to use Virgil's variant on the common
phrase, volatile telum—and recorded this interpretation.
So far for what happened in England. In Boston, as I
subsequently learned, the following took place. At Mrs. Piper's
sitting3 on January 28th, 1902, after the reference to my
daughter's supposed vision,4 Dr. Hodgson suggested that the
same "control" should try to impress my daughter in the
course of the next week with a scene or object. The control
assented. Dr. Hodgson said : " Can you try and make Helen
see you holding a spear in your hand?" The control asked:
*' Why a sphere ? " Dr. Hodgson repeated " spear," and the
control accepted the suggestion, and said the experiment should
be tried for a week. On February 4th, 1902, at the next
sitting, and therefore at the very first opportunity, the con
trol claimed to have been successful in making himself visible
to Helen Verrall with a " sphear " (so spelt in the trance
writing). The confusion between the " sphere " and " spear "
,of January 28th seems to have been persistent, at least in the
1 The script is not perfectly clear ; the word may be e&'Sus or
,eSi&ovs, but the two forms are equivalent in meaning.
2 There is some difference of opinion among commentators as to
the exact weapon described in the various passages referred to.
The above comment represents the conclusion to which I came on
February 7th, 1902, as noted on that day.
3 Communications at these sittings were made by means of Mrs.
Piper's right hand, writing automatically, the usual "control" being
•" Rector " acting as intermediary for other specified communicators.
The reader will find a full account of the methods of the recent
phenomena in Prof. Hyslop's account of sittings with Mrs. Piper
in S.P.R. Proc., Vol. XVI.
4 See immediately above.
216 Chapter X. [PART
mind of the medium, and to have produced the combination
" sphear."
To the best of my knowledge, my name had never been
mentioned by Mrs. Piper since her return to America in 1889,
till during the sittings that began in January, 1902. The first
intimation that my name or my daughter's had been men
tioned by her reached me on February 8th, 1902, from Sir
Oliver Lodge. On February 13th I received a letter from
Dr. Hodgson, enclosing the report of the sitting of January
28th. The report of the sitting on February 4th reached
me on February 18th. Thus no news at all of Mrs. Piper's
sittings came to me till after February 7th,1 the day on which
I recorded my impression that the Latin allusion in my script
was to a spear ; the Greek allusion to a sphere is beyond
question. In no previous writing of mine had there been any
allusion to a spear ; the word " sphere " occurred once before
in a very unintelligible early writing on March 14th, 1901,
there too in conjunction with the word "panopticon." In
view of this it is perhaps worth noting that the suggestion-
of a sphere as the object to be shown came not from Dr.
Hodgson, but from the "control."
To sum up then : on January 28th, 1902, during Mrs. Piper's
trance, a suggestion was made that a spear or sphere should
be shown to my daughter, and on February 4th the experi
ment with the " sphear " was said to have been made with
success. On January 31st, between those dates, my script (as
interpreted by me at the time) said that the seeing of a
sphere effected a mysterious "co-reception," and associated this
statement with a reference to a spear. It seems to me that,
though the proposed experiment did not succeed in the way
intended, there is strong reason for thinking that my script
was in some way affected by it. The reader will note that
the connexion between my script of Jan. 31 and the Piper
!At this time I had not begun the practice of sending the
original script to Sir Oliver Lodge. The evidence, therefore, for
its production at the date stated is not corroborated by the post
mark. My husband saw the script on February 1st; on February
1st I copied it into my notebook, and on February 7th I noted on
the opposite page the Virgilian use of volatile ferrum. I always
note dates of any entry in the book containing copies of the script.
LIII.] Cross-Correspondences with other Sensitives. 217
sittings is made perfectly clear by the signature of my script,
which introduces Rector's Greek cross.1
The following arrangement perhaps helps to mark the
sequence of dates :
STATEMENT IN PARALLEL COLUMNS.
Mrs. P., Boston, U.S.A.
Jan 28. "Spear & Sphere suggested."
Feb 4. " Sphear " claimed.
Jan
Mrs. V., England.
31. " <rif>aipS.s, volatile ferrum. '
The next three allusions to Mrs. Piper (March to July,
1902) are not evidential.
There was no further reference, direct or indirect, to Mrs.
Piper till the spring of 1903. On March 15th, 1903, and again
on March 17, attempts were made to produce a word, and
as these were followed by the remark, " but Hodgson would
understand much that you write he must see it," though there
was no direct reference to Mrs. Piper, I took the script as alluding
to her. On April 17th further attempts were made at what was
said to be " the pass-word," and from later allusions it appeared
that " the pass-word " was intended for Dr. Hodgson. It was
not till some months later, September, 1903, that I learnt from
Dr. Hodgson, that on March 10th, 1903, a new pass-word had
been given in Mrs. Piper's trance for reproduction by other
automatists, as closely related to the suggestion in my script
of March 15th, 1903, as, "say, ella to welda."
The last allusion to Mrs. Piper, on February 1st, 1904, is
correct, but unimportant.
I take separately the allusions to Mrs. Piper's trance-
personalities. On July 21st, 1903, to a long evidential message
signed E.G., the following words were added :
Rector fecit per interpretationem. posuit signum suum ipse.*
* " Rector has done it by explanation (or perhaps by means of
interpretation, i.e. using an interpreter) ; he himself has set his seal."
!See above, pp. 78-80.
218 Chapter X. [PART
The appended seal is a decorated Greek cross, which, as
already stated,1 is appropriately associated with "Rector"—at
least with the Rector of the Stainton Moses group of controls
with whom the Rector of Mrs. Piper's trance claims identity.
There are three certain allusions and another possible one to
" Imperator." In the first, on October 29th, 1901, the name
Imperator appears to be used as equivalent to Mrs. Piper in
trance. On November 22nd, 1901, after a reference to Mrs.
Piper's sittings, comes what appears to be an attempt to give
the name of the mysterious Imperator, but it is too vague for
identification. On January llth, 1902, there is perhaps another
attempt, but again a failure, to identify Imperator in the words :
" Imperat Imperator alii non tibi—nee Latine loquitur." * On
December 6th, 1904, came a long address to some one, possibly
intended for Imperator, though his name does not occur. It
begins " Ave," as do the invocations quoted by Professor
Hyslop,2 and the allusions in it to the ideal wise man of
the Stoics and to the Emperor Hadrian's dying prayer seem
appropriate to the personality and name of Imperator.3
* Trans. " The Ruler rules some one else, not you—nor does he
speak Latin."
1 See above, p. 78. "- S.P.R. Proc., Vol. XVI., pp. 477, 487.
3 See p. 125.
Lin.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 219
CHAPTER XI.
CROSS-CORRESPONDENCES CONTINUED.
(4) MKS. FORBES.
The cross-correspondences between Mrs. Forbes and myself
are numerous, and, at the risk of wearying the reader, must
be related in detail and at length. Most of them are recorded
in her script -or in mine; but there are some which, though
not so recorded, seem so important an element in determining
the nature of our interconnexion that they must be here
included. The evidence for the dates of the various incidents
in these cross-correspondences, though fairly complete, is not
all equally good. Every note that I have on the subject is
dated, so that I arn always able to say whether an impression
of my own was recorded before or after its justification. I
have also kept every letter that I have received from Mrs.
Forbes since the beginning of our acquaintance, and she
has sent me copies of all writing of hers which concerned or
seemed to concern me. In some cases we have been able to
obtain external corroboration ; the dates of Mrs. Forbes' script
are attested by the postmarks on the envelopes in which
they were sent to me; and since November, 1902, the dates
af my script are attested by the postmarks and Sir Oliver
Lodge's corroboration. It seems most convenient to relate the
history of our cross-correspondences in chronological sequence
without any attempt at classification.
The first time that I heard the name of Mrs. Forbes was on
June 23rd, 1900, when I received a letter mentioning that she
had had a successful sitting with Mrs. Thompson.1 Later that
Mrs. Forbes of this paper is the Mrs. Scott of Mr. Pid-
dington's article on Types of Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's trance
in the S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. XVIII., p. 104. I knew no details
of Mrs. Forbes' sittings until I stayed with her in April, 1902.
220 Chapter XI. [PART
autumn I heard from a friend of Mrs. Forbes' automatic script,
and I met her one evening in December, 1900. She then
told me under what circumstances her automatic writing
had begun, and what evidence she had for its genuine
character. The supposed writer, in her case, was her only
son Talbot, who had been killed in the South African War.
The next time that I saw Mrs. Forbes was on February 5th,
1901, when she came to Cambridge to see Miss Johnson
and me on business connected with the S.P.B.. On that
occasion I did not see her alone.
It will make the incidents in this complicated series
clearer if I state first, in each case, what occurred, and then
relate the necessary facts concerning my knowledge of those
occurrences. A list of corroborative documents' is given in
the Appendix.1 For convenience of reference I have here num
bered the successive incidents in Roman notation; the Arabic
numerals in brackets refer to the numbered list of extracts
from my own script. In this chapter quotations from my script
are in small type as elsewhere, and messages automatically
produced by Mrs. Forbes are in italics. It must be remembered
that no selection has been made but that I give all the cases
in which my script seemed to refer to Mrs. Forbes, not only
those which appear to have ' evidential ' value.
(I.) On Sunday, February 24th, 1901, between 11 and 12
a.m., Mrs. Forbes, at her house in the North of England, was
engaged with a friend, Mrs. Baltimore, then unknown to me, in
planchette-writing. The first words were : " Edmund Gfurney-2
writes for H. " ; then, after answering intelligently several
questions put to it, the instrument wrote : " let us see our friends
in Cambridge. Mrs. Verrall is so strongly my friend that I
At the time when my writing began I only knew in a general
way that the results of her sittings had been good, and that there
had been an appearance at them of what purported to be the
" Talbot Forbes control."
1 See p. 404, for complete list of extracts from my script con
cerning Mrs. Forbes, and p. 409, for a list of the documents upon
which this account is based.
2 Three ostensible "controls" appear in Mrs. Forbes' automatic
writing : her son Talbot, unknown to me, Mr. E. Gurney, who was
known to her and to me, and H., also known to her and to me.
tin.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 221
can be with her." Planchette then said that I was sitting in
a chair near the fire, very comfortable, " but don't ask me
to look over her shoulder, for I can't see that she has got a
book."
On this Sunday, February 24th, at 11.10 a.m., for half an
hour1 I was sitting in a low chair near the fire, close to my
husband's chair ; we were looking over together a type-written
MS. of an article which I had written and which my husband
was criticising before sending to press. Before beginning to
read the article he had used the expression to me : " Make
yourself comfortable," and, after so doing I sat beside him,
looking over the MS. as he read it. The description of
Planchette seemed to us correct ; my attitude and occupation
were suggestive of reading, though I held no book.
Such are the facts. My knowledge of them came about as
follows : On February 25th late, on returning from town, I
found a note from Miss Johnson, enclosing a letter from Mrs.
Forbes, asking what I had been doing from 11 to 12 on the
24th, and describing the statement of Planchette. I sent our
recollections to Miss Johnson on February 25th and to Mrs.
Forbes on February 26th. On March 4th I heard from Mrs.
Forbes the full account of the incident.2
(II.) March 17th, 1901.
On Sunday, March 17th, about 11.45 a.m., while I was
reading in my husband's study, I felt a sudden impulse to
write automatically. I had never before written except when
alone and in the dark, and at first resisted the impulse. It
was, however, so marked that I wrote, finishing at 11.58 a.m.
The script (No. 1) said :
1 This was not noted at the time, but remembered on the evening
of February 25th, after enquiry concerning the matter had come
from Mrs. Forbes, and it was confirmed by my husband's recollec
tion,
2 There is possibly a connexion between the receipt on March 4th
of Mrs. Forbes' letter, giving the names of her supposed communi
cators, and the marked improvement in my automatic script of
March 5th. It is at least certain that her letter was a great
encouragement to me.
222 Chapter XI. [PART
Quid magis difficile ne dum impossible nisi tu etiam velis. hodie
possum nee sine dubio. fac scribas. Dianae sumus in fide ; iterum
notare.*
The reference to Catullus XXXIV.: " Dianae sumus in fide,"
suggested Mrs. Forbes to me, as her name is Diana, and on
March 18th I wrote to her, telling her that I had had an
impression on Sunday 17th vaguely connected with her. To
this she answered that on Sunday, from about 12 to 1, she
was automatically writing a not very successful message. As
this appears to be the first introduction into the script of any
allusion to Mrs. Forbes, it is here related not for its own sake,
but to make the series complete.
(III.) March 21st, 1901.
The script (No. 2) of the above date, in the midst of a
good deal that was unintelligible, contained the words :
Ne falle rogatricem.f
On March 24th, Mrs. Forbes and Mrs. Baltimore writing
with Planchette had the words : " Tell Mrs. Verrall to send you,
her last writing!' Accordingly on March 25th Mrs. Forbes
posted to me a letter asking for my last writing. There is
possibly a correspondence between the statements of my script
that I was " not to disappoint her who asks," and her script
asking to see this piece of writing, which was "the last" pro
duced by me.
(IV.) August 28th, 1901.
After a letter on April 16th from Mrs. Forbes I had no
further communication with her till October ; but in the script
produced in the interval there was at least one definite allusion
to her affairs, unrecognised by me till some time later. On
August 28th, 1901, the script began as follows :
* Trans. "What is more difficult, not to say impossible, unless
you also wish it? To-day I can, not without doubt. Write 'we
are in Diana's allegiance.' Note it again." The whole script is
given in Appendix, p. 343.
t Trans. " Do not fail (?) her who asks."
Lin.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 223
Signa sigillo. Conifera arbos in horto iam insita omina sibimet
ostendit.*
The script was signed with a scrawl and three drawings
representing a sword, a suspended bugle and a pair of
scissors ; thus :
A suspended bugle surmounted by a crown is the badge of the
regiment to which Talbot Forbes belonged. Mrs. Forbes has in
her garden four or five small fir-trees grown from seed sent to
her from abroad by her son ; these are called by her Talbot's
trees. This fact was entirely unknown to me. On August 28th
Mrs. Forbes' script contained the statement, purporting to come
from her son, that he was looking for a "sensitive" who
wrote automatically, in order that he might obtain corroboration
for her own writing, and it concluded with the remark that
he must now leave her in order to join E.G. in controlling
the sensitive. The hour of her writing on August 28th does
not appear, but as she usually writes early in the day and
as mine of the same date was at 10.30 p.m., it is probable
that hers preceded mine.
It thus appears that on a certain day " Talbot Forbes " in
Mrs. Forbes' script declared that he was seeking and implied
that he had found another automatic writer through whom
to communicate with her.1 On the same day a statement was
made in my script about fir-trees planted in a garden which
* Trans. "Sign with the seal. The fir-tree that has already been
planted in the garden gives its own portent."
1 The actual words are 1 am looking for a sensitive who writes to tell
Father to believe I can write through you . . . I have to sit with our
friend Edmund to control the sensitive. —(signed with Talbot Forbes'
initials).
224 Chapter XI. [PART
had a meaning for Mrs. Forbes and a special connexion with
her automatic experiments, and the signature of this script, to
which attention had been directed, represented partially the
badge of Talbot Forbes' regiment, together with a sword.1 As
bearing on the question whether such a combination is likely
to have been accidental, I may say that on no other occasion
has a bugle appeared in the script, nor has there been any
other reference to a planted fir-tree.2
I learned the above facts as follows: On November 13th, 1901,
Mrs. Forbes stayed with me for one night, and I showed
her some of the English parts of my writing. There were
some things in it which suggested to her traces of an influence
similar to her son's, and in discussing these questions she had
occasion to mention a memorial to him which was surmounted
by the regimental badge, a suspended bugle below a crown.
I then remembered that in my script there had been a draw
ing which had puzzled me at the time, of which this badge
reminded me. Subsequent examination verified the representa
tion, so far as concerns the bugle. The nail on which the bugle
is suspended is plainly indicated. It struck me as remarkable
that the opening sentence of the script so signed should contain
an allusion full of meaning for Mrs. Forbes. I asked her to
look through her script and let me have a copy of any remarks
that might concern me, and in that way became acquainted
with the fact that on the same day, August 28th, her script
as above quoted had suggested connexion with another auto
matic writer.3
(V.) September 20th, 1901.
The first actual mention in my script of Mrs. Forbes' name
is on September 20th, 1901 (No. 3), when it is suggested that
I should ask her if she has a message for me about " g i m a "
1 No explanation of the open scissors has been suggested.
2 Except once subsequently, on November 27th, 1901, after veri
fication of the incident, when it was quoted as an encouragement.
3 I knew nothing at the time when my script was produced of
the surroundings or tastes of Mrs. Forbes. It was only in April,
1902, that I found that her garden was full of associations with her
son, and that allusions to certain flowers there growing had been
made in her sittings with Mrs. Thompson.
mi.] Gross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 225
or some such word. Nothing has been made of this suggestion.
In the afternoon before writing I had seen a letter to a friend
in which Mrs. Forbes' name occurred frequently. This I noted
at the time, thinking it a possible explanation of the occurrence
of her name. She was abroad at the time and not -trying
for automatic writing.
(VI.) November 13th, 1901.
The next incident in this story was a meeting between Mrs.
Forbes and myself at my house, where she stayed for one night,
as related above. Letters from her on 28th and 30th October,
1901, had seemed to indicate a similarity in the topics
mentioned in her script and mine about the middle of October.
But the topic was one not unlikely to occur to us both. Her
name did not appear in my writing, but my name did
appear in hers. When she stayed with me on Nov. 13 we
obtained some writing with Planchette, but all of a vague
description. My own script, written after the Planchette-
attempts, encouraged rne to persevere, but was non-evidentiaL
(VII.) November 22nd, 1901.
Soon after Mrs. Forbes' visit my script (No. 4), associated
her name with that of Mrs. Thompson. The association of
names was likely enough to occur, for Mrs. Forbes and I,
having both had sittings with Mrs. Thompson, had, on the
occasion of Mrs. Forbes' visit to me, compared our experiences
and impressions.
(VIII.) November 25th, 1901.
On November 22nd, 1901, immediately after the above
reference to Mrs. Forbes, the script produced an attempt to
represent a communication from Mr. F. M. Balfour, Mrs.
Sidgwick's brother. The introduction of this first definite
attempt at impersonation of some one hardly known to me
disturbed me at the time as I was unwilling to show the
script or apply to Mrs. Sidgwick for confirmation of statements
which could be fully accounted for as the product of my own
imagination. On November 25th, after resisting an earlier
226 Chapter XI. [PART
desire I wrote at 6.50 p.m., and further matter was produced
oil the same subject.1
On November 25th, between 2 and 3 p.m. Mrs. Forbes' script
produced first a confused message from " E.G." to me about
my writing, followed by a clear message from " Talbot " that
I was to be told at once by that day's post that the friends
were with her [Mrs. Verrall] when she was with Mrs. Sidgewick
[sic]. In the language of Mrs. Forbes' script to be with usually
means to sympathise with or think about, so that the phrase
when she was with Mrs. Sidgwick was a not inappropriate repre
sentation of my attitude of mind between the 22nd and 25th.
The message in Mrs. Forbes' script seemed to me at the time
to show a knowledge on her part of a feeling of my own
normally impossible for her to divine. It preceded my own
writing of November 25th, which contained much more definite
allusions to Mr. Balfour than were in the first attempt on
November 22nd. Whether or not it preceded the impulse to
write on the 25th, I am unable to say ; " all the afternoon "
are the words in my diary, so that it is probable that Mrs.
Forbes' writing closely corresponded with the beginning of
the impulse to write which culminated in my writing at
6.50 p.m.
It is interesting to note in Mrs. Forbes' script the confusion
of the first message to me from " E.G." and the clearness of
the message from " Talbot." It has frequently happened that
a long and confused communication from "E.G." or others
has been followed by a clear and much shorter message from
" Talbot."2
(IX.) December 5th, 1901.
On December 5th, 1901 (No. 5), my script introduced the
name "Talbot" for the first time in the words:
Note the hour, I will tell some one else I was here—talbot
helping.
The writing was produced between 5.20 and 6.0 p.m.
On December 5th, from 12 to 12.30 p.m., Mrs. Forbes was
writing automatically what seems to be an attempt to explain
!See pp. 26, 152. 2See below, pp. 230, 244-5.
LIII.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 227
the difficulty of simultaneous writing or connexion between
two automatic writers. The words are: for earth-friend to
see with earth-friend the light is feeble. When the friends see
together the same light is the force that we use for this letter.
This writing of hers preceded mine, and so if there is any
connexion other than accidental between them the tense in
mine is not appropriate.
Mrs. Forbes and I had agreed to communicate at once with
one another if either of us found allusions to the other in her
writings. Although in her script of December 5th there was
no allusion to me, she sent it at once to me, so that I received
it on December 6th by the second post. Mrs. Forbes not
infrequently acts on some impulse not completely represented in
her writing ; in fact her interpretation of what she writes
seems ofteii to go beyond what is stated in the actual words.
This is perhaps natural, as she is largely conscious of what she
produces, more so, I think, than is the case with me. Thus,
though there was no mention of my name in her script, she
supposed it to concern me, and acted on her impression.
(X.) December 16th, 1901.
On December 10th, 1901, Sir Oliver Lodge suggested to
me that I should try the experiment of writing every day
at a fixed hour. I accordingly wrote to Mrs. Forbes, whose
automatic writing had previously made to her a similar sugges
tion, to tell her that I proposed to do this, and that henceforth
we should try for coincidence not of date but of subject. I
wrote automatically on December 10th, llth, 12th, and 13th, on
the last occasion at a friend's house. But on the 14th I found
it impossible to get any time to myself, and the same thing
happened again on the 15th. I was very much annoyed at
having to break what I regarded as a compact, and throughout
these two days my thoughts were constantly occupied with
the failure on my part. I decided to abandon any attempt to
write during my absence from home, and on December 16th I
wrote to that effect to Mrs. Forbes.
On December 16th Mrs. Forbes obtained a message for me
which she sent on at once, though owing to my absence from
home, of which I had not told her, I did not receive it till
228 Chapter XL [PART
Dec. 18th. The note enclosing it said: "It seems to me rather
fussy—as if it were to be sent at once, but it also looks as if
you were to make time somehow to try for some writing
yourself." She added her impression that there was some
mistake about this, as she knew that I was making time
every day. The script enclosed said : Mrs. Verrall to try to
see for ! H. H. says—to say friends -Can wait is far from
courteous ; then further broken remarks : would it seem fair
for the spirits to sit for work for hours . . . she sat with
foolish . . . 2 and so on, with other remarks about the im
portance of regular attention on the part of automatic writers
if any results were to be obtained.
It thus appears that on the same day on which I wrote
to Mrs. Forbes to express my regret at my failure to write
as arranged during the two preceding days, her automatic
script produced a reproach to me for, having failed to keep
my appointment. The reproach was unintelligible to Mrs.
Forbes, who believed me to be writing regularly. To me the
message seemed appropriate enough ; the opening words are
not uncharacteristic of the supposed communicator, and the
later remark, she sat with foolish, very closely represented iny
own feeling of annoyance that I had been occupied in irrelevant
conversation with persons not interested in our experiment,
when I ought to have been writing.
(XI.) December 17th, 1901.
1 had intended, as above stated, to attempt no writing during
my absence from home, but on December 17th (No. 6), before
receiving the reproaches of Mrs. Forbes' script on Dec. 18th,
I was so worried all day with a wish to write that I contrived
to get a clear time to myself at 6.50 p.m. The script thus
produced, after a second allusion to the Marmontel incident,3
concluded as follows :
1i.e. get in communication with. It is the usual expression in
Mrs. Forbes' script.
2 Dots here, as in Mrs. Forbes' copies sent to me, represent, not
omissions, but what is illegible in the original automatic writing.
3 See below, p. 332.
Lin.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 229
Ask Mrs. Forbes what she wrote to-day your name is not in it
but you would understand—it tried to be Stewart and Haslemere1
and about a brook—water running and a flight of birds.
This was signed with a badly drawn sword and palm.
The remarks seem quite incorrect. My name was contained
in Mrs. Forbes' writing of 17th, and there was nothing in that
writing which could be interpreted as referring to the suggested
topics.
(XII.) December 18th, 1901.
Ou December 18th (No. 7), after I had received the above-
mentioned letter from Mrs. Forbes with reproaches for not
writing, the script produced, as might be expected, an allusion
to Talbot in the words:
Talbot wrote yesterday or before. There was never any need
for explanation.
The statement is obviously unevidential.
(XIII.) January 10th, 1902.
After a letter from Mrs. Forbes written on December 19th, I
heard nothing further for some weeks, nor was there any
reference to her in my script. On January llth, 1902, at 9.45
a.m., I noted in my diary that I had felt on the day
before that " after an interval I had again come into touch "
with whatever it was that produced my automatic script.
The impression was especially vivid at 7.0 p.m. and again at
11.30-12 p.m., on January 10th.
On January 10th, at an hour not mentioned, but after 1 p.m.,
Mrs. Forbes automatically wrote a long message for me from
" Edmund," which I received by the second post of January
llth, after I had made the above-mentioned entry in my
diary. Neither the subjective impression nor the contents of
the script are definite enough to be evidential. But the
coincidence between the reference to me after three weeks'
silence and my own sensation of having " come into touch "
is worth noting, especially as the record of my own feeling
was made before I heard from Mrs. Forbes.
1 See p. 206. This seems to be a reminiscence of an earlier "cross-
correspondence."
230 Chapter XI. [PART
(XIV.) February and March, 1902.
On February 23rd and March 8th, 1902, my daughter, who
was table-tilting with a friend, obtained some statements
concerning Mrs. Forbes, who was known to both the agents.
On both occasions the information was partly but not wholly
correct. I wrote to Mrs. Forbes on the subject on March
9, 1902.
(XV.) March 10th, 1902.
The next entry in my script (No. 8), March 10th, 1902,
6.45 p.m., is incorrect so far as it is definite.
Mrs. Forbes has heard, must have heard by now. There is a
letter for you gone astray—it will arrive—remember this date.
As I had written to Mrs. Forbes on March 9th it was obvious
that she ought to have heard by the evening of March 10th ;
her reply reached me in due course on March llth.
(XVI.) March 22nd, 1902.
On March 23rd, 1902, I received from Mrs. Forbes a note
asking whether a certain word had any significance for me.
I replied that if the word came in a certain connexion, it
might have a profound significance. When I received from
her, as I did on March 26th, the automatic message which
had induced her to write, I found that it did purport to
represent what the single word had suggested to me. In
Mrs. Forbes' automatic writing, there first appeared the name
of the 'control' with whom the word was associated in my
mind and then the single word without context, and without
my name. Immediately following it, however, was a much
clearer message from Talbot, distinctly stating that the control
named wanted you to try for a test with our friend at
Cambridge. Write to Mrs. Verrall to-day. One word will be
enough. Then in large letters the word in question was written.
The significance of the word for me could not have been
known to Mrs. Forbes, and accordingly the incident made a
great impression on me.
(XVII.) March 31st, 1902.
On March 31st, 1902, it was arranged that Mrs. Forbes
should try for automatic writing, while I fixed my mind on
Lin.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 231
the above incident, with a view to obtaining something further
about it in her script. This experiment proved a complete
failure. Mrs. Forbes' writing was completely unintelligible.
(XVIII.) April 14th, 1902.
On April 14th, 1902 (No. 9), I went to stay with Mrs. Forbes.
In the train on the way I had a very strong desire to write.
The first words of the script were :
Mrs. Forbes has got it—for you in the house.1
On my arrival at Mrs. Forbes' house I found that there were
no letters waiting for me, and therefore supposed the statement
in the script to be mistaken. But an incident on April loth,
when she and I wrote together with Plauchette, led to her
producing a letter which enabled me to verify a peculiar form
of Mr. Gurney's signature that had occurred in my script of
nine months before,2 so that there certainly was something for
me in Mrs. Forbes' house—something which I should probably
not have seen had I not visited her.
(XIX.) May 4th, 1902.
After two unsuccessful attempts in Mrs. Forbes' script to convey
intelligible messages to me on April 24th and 27th, my daughter
and I on May 4th, 1902, obtained a message with Planchette.
It purported to -come from Talbot Forbes, and said : " My
mother has had a wounded man to stay with her. Will not
tell you his name. Want you to tell my mother my
message."
I found on enquiring that a man who had been " very bad
with sciatica," and was still suffering a good deal of pain and
limping, had stayed with Mrs. Forbes, from Saturday to Monday,
May 3rd to 5th. During his visit there had been much talk
of his ailments and his remedies.
(XX.) May 7th, 1902.
In a letter, received on May 7th, Mrs. Forbes suggested
that my daughter and I at our next sitting should ask " who
!This was followed by a statement (subsequently verified) about
Dr. Hodgson, and the Wellington College Chapel incident (see p. 186).
2 See p. 305.
232 Chapter XI. [PART
sat with Mrs. Forbes on Sunday evening," i.e. May 4th. On
Wednesday, May 7th, Planchette, with many repetitions, gave
" masterman bastings." This was followed by attempts culmin
ating in Walter, and remarks about "Mrs. Walter James."
We sent as a guess the name, Mastermau Hastings.
Mrs. Forbes answered that the first two letters were right,
that the total length was about right and that the H of
Hastings would correspond with two long letters that should
be in that place.
On May 10th we tried again, after receiving the above
information, and the result sent to Mrs. Fortes was :
(1) Manners Walters.
,(2) Mr. Walterer.
The first of these was given after some efforts ; the second,
" Mr. Walterer/' appeared in answer to a different question,
viz. as to the whereabouts of my husband. The answer was :
" He is sitting with Mr. Walterer, Walterer Walters is the
name of Mrs. Forbes' friend."
On May 12th, before we heard anything more from Mrs.
Forbes, my script (No. 9a) wrote :
Look and you will see surely it must be plain. Why hesitate ?
Mary buds no Mary Baltimore was the name. It is Helen who
writes not you. better than you.1
This clearly referred to our Planchette experiment. The name
of Mrs. Baltimore2 was known to me as that of a friend of
Mrs. Forbes, and I thought that I had heard her spoken of
as Mary. The likeness in Walterer to Baltimore made me feel
almost sure that from the first I had unconsciously guessed at
Mary Baltimore, but in the Planchette-writing was unable
to prevail over my daughter's ignorance of the name, which
therefore only emerged in my own script. A letter from Mrs.
Forbes received on May 13, showed that the name was correct.
The guess was not unlikely on my part, but the incident
seems to throw some light on the sub-conscious processes.
1 At the conclusion of this writing came the words, apparently
without context, "Marian Baltimore."
2 See above, No. I., p. 220.
LIU.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 233
(XXI.) May 16th, 1902.
The next reference in the script, May 16th, 1902 (No. 10),
is partly a reminiscence of the above.
There is no letter about Marian Baltimore on the way to you.
But Mrs. Forbes will have a message for you next week.
The name Marian Baltimore has no applicability, the name
of Mrs. Baltimore being, as I now knew, Mary, and no message
came to me from Mrs. Forbes till June 1st.
(XXII.) May 18th, 1902.
Another suggestion, in the script of May 18th, 1902 (No. 11),
was also incorrect. "She" was said to want me to look for
something in a dark wood drawer, to ask, and send her word
when I heard from her. The directions were confusing, and
I said nothing to Mrs. Forbes. Later on,1 after what seemed
a further reference to this drawer, I made enquiries, but could
obtain no clue to any possible meaning.
(XXIII.) May 28th, 1902.
My daughter and I made another attempt on May 28th with
Planchette to get information about Mrs. Forbes, but the infor
mation was extremely vague, and, where it could be tested,
incorrect.
(XXIV.) June 9th, 1902.
The next incident in this series was a meeting between
myself and Mrs. Forbes at Cambridge, where she was staying
with other friends. After this we had no further communication
of any kind till the interchange of letters related below.
(XXV.) July 13th, 1902.
On June IGth my husband and I went to Switzerland for
some weeks, and I had no allusions to Mrs. Forbes in my script
till July 13th, 1902 (No. 12).2 Then the script written at 9.15
p.m. in the hotel at the top of the Simplon Pass, after a few
words of somewhat enigmatic Greek, began a new paragraph :
On such an eve of storm the message came across the water far
away—she will not write nor
1 See below, No. XXX., p. 241.
2 I obtained seven pieces of automatic script between my seeing
Mrs. Forbes and this first allusion to her on July 13th.
234 Chapter XI. [PART
(at this point I was temporarily interrupted, but went on again
almost at once) :
no letter for you—she has not understood—but you will hear
later—this is for you—to help. Count three and five and write then
—and on the 23rd of the month. The words are for you and none
other but they went to Mrs. Forbes—ask her. The message is for
you—about the water1—she will know that. You have not seen
the lilies my lilies. Tell her I said that.
Talbot.
No other message tonight, write later as I said
H. Do the signature better H.
On July llth, as subsequently appeared, Mrs. Forbes had a
reference—the first since our meeting—in her script to me. It
was not very definite, but suggested that a test was to be
attempted with the hand of friends; a test will be given
through the friends . . . Here followed an attempt at my name,
which is what induced Mrs. Forbes to send the message to me.
It further appeared that Mrs. Forbes had been watching
and watering with much interest some lilies which had
lately bloomed, and which were in full flower about July
llth. Earlier in the summer some red lilies had bloomed, of
which the bulbs had been sent to her by her son. There had
been a good deal of rain in England in early July, and more
than one thunderstorm, but the exact dates of the storms were
not known. In a letter of July llth she writes that she hopes
there has been better weather in Switzerland than in England,
and that my husband and I have not been "rained upon as
we have been this week."
I have separated the facts as far as possible from our com
munications concerning them, but the interchange of letters is
an important part of this incident. On July 14-th I wrote to
Mrs. Forbes quoting the words of my script of July 13th from
"the words are for you" to the signature "Talbot," and telling
her that a future date (which I did not give) 2 had been
mentioned for me to write on. This I posted by the early
(mid-day) post on July 14th, and by the same post I sent a
1 The word is indistinctly written.
2 The whole correspondence between Mrs. Forbes and me in relation
to this incident was seen by Mr. Piddington in August, 1902.
Lin.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 235
letter to Mr. Piddington containing a copy of the whole script,
as I thought the message might be evidential. I wrote to
him " the whole thing . . . may mean that Mrs. Forbes has
had a message for me which she has not recognized as belonging
to me. The message may be going to come on 21st1 or 23rd
of this month."
By the evening delivery, 6 p.m., on the same day, July 14th,
I received from Mrs. Forbes a letter forwarded from Cambridge,
and written b}' her on July llth, telling me that she had had
a message (automatic) that day, but would not send it, as she
wanted to know first if I had obtained anything similar. Ity the
same evening post of July 14th I sent a card to Mr. Piddiugton
telling him of the crossing of letters of enquiry about script
from Mrs. Forbes and myself, the first letters that had passed
since our meeting on June 9th. On July 17th Mrs. Forbes
wrote in answer to my enquiries about the lilies, etc., and this
letter, enclosing her script of llth, I received on July 19th.
It will thus be seen that the statement in my script of
July 13th that a message meant for me had gone to Mrs.
Forbes was true in the sense that on July llth she had
received a message which she took to be connected with me,
and of which she at once wrote to inform me. There seems
to have been some truth, though also some confusion, in the
would-be evidential allusions in my script; there had been a
week of storms in England, some lilies blooming in her garden
had been specially watched by Mrs. Forbes, and there were in
her garden flowers which she could recognise as " Talbot's lilies."
(XXVI.) July 23rd, 1902.
The incident did not end here. Two dates had been men
tioned on which I was to write, and I wrote on both. On
July 21st nothing was obtained which could possibly be
connected with Mrs Forbes. On July 23rd at 12.10 p.m. (No.
12A), at Ouchy on the Lake of Geneva the script began :
Double discharge—but do not ask.
Then, after reference in Latin to quite a different subject :
Hodie mane aliquid in Britanniarum pusilla insula evenit quod
1 "Count three and five" = 8, and this, added to the date of writing
the script (13th) gives 21st as a possible date.
236 Chapter XI.
amicis tuis magnum refert. Fac scribas—iam tibi diem pronotavi
—antehac, sed non possum angustiora describere. Eventum non
reipublicae amico autem—It is interesting to a friend. Note the
date. H.*
Naturally, under the circumstances, I connected the reference
to my friends in England with Mrs. Forbes.
On July 23rd Mrs. Forbes wrote to me (enclosing automatic
writing) as follows : " Last night in bed I felt a strong impulse
to write, this morning when I awoke I felt it again, and now,
at 10 a.m., I have again felt it. I send you the result. I feel
more sure than I have ever felt that whatever mess I may
have made of it, there was a genuine effort on 'the other
side,' and I can't help hoping you have also had some experience."
The enclosed automatic writing was as follows:
(a) On July 22nd, 11.30 p.m., from Talbot to say that she
was to see with1 Mrs. Verrall's letter,2 and that if possible he
would be with her to write automatically the next day.
(6) July 23rd, at 7.45 a.m., from Talbot to tell her to wait
till she was downstairs.
(c) July 23rd, at 10.0 a.m., from Talbot, Will you see for
H. for writing to prove identity ? . . . Will you write
to Mrs. Verrall? And iigain, he only wants to write—you to
write for him to Mrs. Verrall."
It will be seen that, though two dates were suggested in
my script of July 13th, and though I wrote automatically on
both of them, on the 21st there was nothing referring to Mrs.
Forbes. On the 23rd I wrote at 12.10 p.m. that on that
morning in England something had occurred which much
interested my friends, that the day had been announced to me
beforehand but not the details, and that the event was not of
public but of private interest. All these statements are strictly
* Trans. " To-day this morning something has occurred in Britain's
little island, which to your friends is of much interest. See that
you write—already I have foretold the day to you before this, but
I cannot write down the details. The event not to the country
but to a friend (is of interest)." [The phrase in brackets is obviously
to be supplied from the context.]
1i.e., be in telepathic or spiritual—non-material—communication.
2 i.e., automatic script. "Letter" is commonly used in this sense
in Mrs. Forbes' script.
LIII.] 237
Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes.
true, Mrs. Forbes' writing having occurred about an hour1 before
mine. The " double discharge " of my script of July 23rd may
easily be interpreted as referring to the coincidence of our both
writing on the same day,2 and in that case it may be regarded
as suggesting the nature of the event in England.3
To sum up the last two incidents, which make part of a
single episode : in the course of some six weeks, during which
I obtained eleven separate pieces of script, there were two only
which could refer to Mrs. Forbes. On both these occasions
the statements of the script were correct. In the same period,
during which Mrs. Forbes was constantly writing automatically,
she twice, and twice only,4 spontaneously communicated to
me, as above described, messages automatically obtained, and
these corresponded with my writing about her. To make clear
the sequence of dates, I have drawn up a statement in
parallel columns.
STATEMENT IN PARALLEL COLUMNS.
Mrs. F., England.
July 11. " message about Mrs. V."
July 23. "message to Mrs. V."
Mrs. V., Switzerland.
July 13. " message for you went to Mrs. F."
July 21. no reference in sc. to Mrs. F.
July 23. "double discharge."
1 This allows for the difference between English and Middle-Euro
pean time.
2 As I had told Mrs. Forbes on the 13th that I was to write again
on a future day and hoped that she would do the same, it may be
supposed that I expected her to write on the 21st or the 23rd. But
though I had script on both days, it was only on the day on which
she also wrote that I had any reference applicable to her.
3 It is to be noticed that Mrs. Forbes' name does not appear in
the script. For similar omissions see No. LXII. and also p. 334.
4 I have counted Mrs. Forbes' script of 11.30 p.m. on July 22nd
as part of the communication of July 23rd. It was so regarded
by her and reached me at the same time.
238 Chapter XI. [PART
(XXVII.) October 27th, 1902.
No further reference to Mrs. Forbes occurs in the script
till October 27th, 1902 (No. 13), when, after a remark in
Greek that I too was to write my share and some one else
would read,1 came the words:
it is not wholly right. Try to understand. Mrs. Forbes has
the other words—piece together. Add hers to yours. It is
important.
After another paragraph on a different subject came a third
paragraph :
Write more often. Talbot will help—all through November.
On October 31st (No. 13a) appeared what might be another
reference to the above first paragraph :
She has had some words incomplete, to be added to and pieced
and make the clue.
But I have not been able to discover to what, if anything, this
refers. Mrs. Forbes had had no writing referring to me since
July 26th when her script referred to the success previously
narrated.
The second statement, however, on October 27th, "Talbot
will help—all through November," seems evidential. On
October 30th, 1902, Mrs. Forbes' script said: We [i.e. " H.
with Talbot"] will send more work to you when we have
been with Mrs. Verrall, and again : We are going to Cam
bridge.
The first part of this message was sent to me by Mrs.
Forbes on October 30th, 11 a.m., when she did not know that
there had been any reference to her in my script of October
27th. The second sentence from her script, " We are going to
Cambridge," reached me in a letter of November 17th, with
a note that it had been omitted before ; it had been written
automatically just after her letter to me of October 30th.
Thus a similar statement appears independently in her script
and in mine ; mine on October 27th states that Talbot will
help me all through November, and hers on October 30th
states that Talbot is going to Cambridge to be with me.
Kal <TV—aAAos
LIU.] Gross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 239
(XXVIII.) November 2nd, 1902.
The next episode is unfortunately spoiled for evidential
purposes by my having made no note of my part in the affair
till after hearing from Mrs. Forbes. The reader must judge
what value to attach to my recollection after the event.
On October 27th, 1902, I decided to try an experiment
with my automatic writing. At a meeting of the S.P.R. on
October 17th, when I read a paper on my automatic
script, several speakers urged me to " talk to rny control."
This I felt to be impossible, as I have no sense of the
presence of a " control," and to address my hand would be
absurd. But I was struck with the general agreement of
automatic writers as to the importance of this point, and I
decided to try the following experiment. On October 27th,
1902, and again on October 31st, before writing, I sat for some
fifteen minutes in the dark, concentrating my thoughts on one
of the supposed communicators, H. Being a strong visualiser
I soon began, as always when recalling any one, to picture him
to myself; I imagined him sitting on the corner of the seat in
the drawing-room, where he always sat when he called. There
was a moment on the 27th when I had so clear a mental image
of him that I found myself looking towards the seat as if
he were actually sitting there, and I distinctly remember
realising how vivid my power of visualisation is. On
the 31st I thought of him from the beginning as sitting
on that seat. I made 110 note of this experiment at the time.
I have no habit of recording impressions, and I was writing
as little as possible in my diary at the time, because I was
unable to use my right hand, and left-hand writing I then
found extremely laborious.
On November 2nd Mrs. Forbes wrote to me, enclosing a
passage in her script of the same day. After a message from
Talbot to say that H. had a message for me, that Mrs.
Forbes was to come with him to Cambridge, and that the diffi
culty of definite statement was very great, there was an
interval of ten minutes in which she had no writing ; then
came the following : H. sees the words—not so strong as
your son's writing, but clearer. Will you be sure—
you—tell Mrs. Verrall to be sure 1 am the writer—the
240 Chapter XL [PART
friend was with her when she sat . . . when she sat On1 the
old1 seat (?) 2 when she felt for (?) . . . in the dark—when
she was looking for the light (?) 2 in the dark she tried to find
the Old 1—with sympathy, H.
On receiving her letter on November 3rd I was much
struck at the reference in it to the old seat, and found it
difficult to attribute to chance the appearance of this " mes
sage " to me in her script of November 2nd, immediately after
the two days, October 27th and 31st, when I had been sitting
" in the dark " imagining H. " on the old " seat and wonder
ing whether my so doing would have any effect on my
writing.
As I have said, I had made no note of my experiment. I
related it to Mr. Piddington on November 3rd, and sent him
Mrs. Forbes' letters of October 30th and November 2nd, as
well as copies of my own script. I did not tell Mrs. Forbes
more than that her message was intelligible and interesting,
till December 12th or 13th, when I sent her the written
account. In writing back to me on December 18th she
emphasised the vividness of her impression, saying : " My
message [i.e. the message to me about H.'s presence on
the old seat] . . . was told me—as I might tell you—I had
been with a mutual friend sitting in a certain place." When
I wrote to Mrs. Forbes on November 4th I asked her to send
to me at once any references she obtained in her script, and
to allow me to leave her entirely uninformed as to their
intelligibility or appropriateness. This she most kindly con
sented to do in a letter written on November 5th.
(XXIX.) November 7th, 1902.
Two or three days later my script (No. 14) wrote :
Your message comes through Mrs. Forbes—-I am doing that now
—she is easier—tell her that.
This obviously may be an echo of the last episode ; it may,
1 These words are in larger writing.
2 Mrs. Forbes notes to these words that they were "guesses," but,
as I have said elsewhere, Mrs. Forbes' impressions seem quite as
adequate a representation of her subliminal knowledge as do the
mechanical actions of her hand.
LIU.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 241
however, possibly refer to a message which she sent me at
the end of the month.1
(XXX.) November llth, 1902.
On November 7th, 1902, Mrs. Forbes sent me a long and
obscure piece of script about working with wood of cedar and
X-rays, which operate through wood. I could make nothing
of it,2 but it doubtless suggested the next reference to Mrs.
Forbes in my own script of November llth, 1902 (No. 15):
Mrs. Forbes writes of the cedar-wood—You cannot find that—
ask about the chest—with the faint smell—upstairs—in a room—
with a window on a garden all a maze—ask someone this.
The chest reminded me of the earlier allusion (No. XXII.)
to a dark wood drawer, but neither message had any meaning
for Mrs. Forbes, as she told me later.
(XXXI.) November 26th and 27th, 1902.
A short message from Mrs. Forbes on November 14th, to
say that a test was being prepared in connexion with me,
was followed by two messages written on successive days and
received by me together.
On November 26th Mrs. Forbes wrote : H. opens a book
long closed ; and on November 27th she wrote : Will
it be worth while to try to follow the clue of yesterday ?
H. wishes Mrs. Verrall to open the last book she read for
him in which is the true word of the test. If she will try
to begin the sentence with this word he will be sure to prove
his being the writer—let the letter be sent to-night. She added
that there was also an effort to write a word which seemed
to begin ESO.
I was completely puzzled by this message, which I received
by the first post of November 28th, 1902. It was so clearly
expressed and definite that I was disposed to attach great
value to it, but I could not understand what I was meant
iSee below, No. XXXI.
2 It is suggested that the meaning might be that I was to be
content with my ordinary habit of automatic writing, and not try
talking to the control.
Q
242 Chapter XL [PART
to do. I could attach no meaning to the phrase " the last
book read for H.," nor could I see how even if I could think
of such a book I was to know in which part of it was to be
found the word with which I was to begin a sentence. I
noted my bewilderment at 10 a.m. on November 28th, and
puzzled over the question all day. In the evening I thought
of a possibility. During the two days, November 26th and
27th, my thoughts had been much occupied with Plato's
Dialogue of the Symposium. A passage from it (202s—203A)
had been set for translation for November 21st, 1902, by a
lecturer of Trinity College, Cambridge,1 and I am in the habit
of using the Trinity College translation papers for my class at
Newnham College. My own lecture on the subject was to be
on Saturday, November 29th. On November 26th I read in
the Dialogue the context of the passage selected, and on
November 27th I looked over some ten or twelve translations
of the passage. During those two days my mind was full of
the passage, of the reference to it earlier in my script, and
of the appropriateness of its selection. If the book intended
was the Symposium, the word intended might very well be
one of the phrases in the selected extract about the inter
mediation of spirits between God and man. On the chance
that the Symposium might be the book I was to open, I
decided to fix my mind upon it before trying for automatic
script that evening. This I noted at the time.
When once my attention had been drawn to the Sym
posium I saw reasons for its suitability to the conditions
demanded by Mrs. Forbes' script, though I had not punctuated
her message 2 so as to refer it to the last book read by me.
Mrs. Forbes' script however contained the word "clue," which
was the word used in my own early reference to the Sym-
1 See App., p. 414, for the passage.
2 I read the words in Mrs. Forbes' script as the last book she read
for him, and it was not till Mr. Piddington took them otherwise
that I saw that they need not have this meaning. The simplest
interpretation certainly is, that I was to open for H. the last book
I had read. The last book read by me before November 28th
was Plato's Symposium. I read no other book on November 26th
or 27th, having visitors in the house and my translation papers to
look over.
LIU.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 243
posium, May 31st, 1901. My own script also of November
26th, written, in spite of great difficulties, in obedience
to a strong impulse, and unfortunately interrupted, had con
tained in Greek1 a suggestion that there was something
which I could not accomplish alone. I was therefore dis
posed to attach special value to Mrs. Forbes' script and
anxious to carry out its instructions. On the chance then
that I might be doing so, I fixed my mind before writing
on the passage in question and made the following notes before
and after obtaining my script2:
"Nov. 28th, 1902, 5.40 p.m. [i.e before writing.] My mind
fixed on Diotima and her clue, that the Sai/moviov yeVo?
crvfiTr\tjpol between God and man and that of these [i.e. of
the race of intermediary spirits] one is Eros."
" Nov. 28th. 6.45 p.m. [i.e. after writing] I tried the experi
ment above recorded before writing, as I thought that Mrs.
Forbes' message [i.e. of Nov. 26th, 27th] might be an attempt
to represent my interest in the Symposium passage which
had been set and which I had been reading and correcting
on 26th and 27th."
I made this experiment3 in the hopes that if the Sym
posium were the book intended by Mrs. Forbes' script, she
would get a clearer reference to it at her next attempt.
Naturally, I said nothing of this to her.
(XXXII.) December 18th, 1902.
I heard nothing further from Mrs. Forbes till on December
19th I received from her her automatic writing of the 18th.
1 aAAos ris ireva-fTai TO 6Aov. <TV Se ov\ eva /i6vrj evl irp<xrire\a.£uv
Swcurai. Trans. " Some one else will learn the whole but you
alone are not able to put one to one." See above, p. 144.
2 My own script of this day had no direct reference to Mrs. Forbes
but ended with the words : " It must come elsewhere—keep your
record."
3 My own script on which the note of this experiment was made
was sent to Miss Johnson before Dec. 15th, and therefore the evidence
is complete for its having been annotated before I received Mrs.
Forbes' script of Dec. 18th. From this time onwards all my writing
was sent to Sir Oliver Lodge as it was obtained, so that there is
external evidence for the dates of each piece of script.
244 Chapter XI. [PART
This was her next attempt, and it seemed to me an unmis-
takeable reference to the Dialogue such as I had hoped to obtain.
Her writing was as follows (for purposes of reference I have
divided it into the three parts of which it obviously consists,
according to the supposed communicators, i.e. H., E.G., and
Talbot) :
(a) ... word . . . H. make it— . . . with the—
Dionysus1 Dion—
(b) ... Edmund writes to tell the friend—who writes
with Talbot—word of the Test will be Dy . . . Will you
give the sense of the message, write to Mrs. Verrall and say
the word will be found in Myers' own . . . will you send
a message to Mrs. Verrall to say H. will see2 with her
on Friday—will you be so kind as to send this to-day?
(c) ... Talbot writes to say you can be sure . . . it is
one of the most Hymeneal Songs—Love's oldest melody.
It appears to me indisputable that there is here an attempt
to refer to the passage in the Symposium which I had fixed
upon and noted before writing automatically on November
28th. The first part of the message purporting to come from
H. tries to give a "word," and the attempt represents
the initial capital and the two following letters of the name
Diotima—a name, I need hardly say, entirely unknown
to Mrs. Forbes.3 In the second message, attributed to Mr.
Gurney, is a further attempt at the word which is described
as the " word of the test," and which is to be sent to me ;
it is also added that this word will be found in Mr. Myers'
own—something not named. Finally " Talbot " communicates
a description, not inappropriate, of the Dialogue, in language
1 Mrs. Forbes marks ' Dionysus ' as a guess.
2 Or sit; word not clear.
3 Mrs. Forbes is unacquainted with Latin and Greek and has
read no translation of the Platonic dialogue in which the name
Diotima occurs, nor any commentary on Greek philosophy or literature.
Mr. Myers' book on Human Personality, contained (Vol. I. p. 113)
a reference to this passage of the Symposium and mentioned specifically
the name of Diotima, but the book was not published till February,
1903, and Mrs. Forbes had not seen any of the proof-sheets. No other
classical name or allusion has, as far as I am aware, occurred in
Mrs. Forbes' script, certainly not in any script of hers seen by me.
LIII.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 245
not natural to my own phraseology nor, I should think, to
that of Mrs. Forbes; she in fact completely misunderstood the
allusion, for in the letter enclosing her script she wrote: "if
it turns out that you- have anything to do with weddings
to-morrow, or are reading any special book with a Hymeneal
song in it, I shall be very much delighted."
Not the least interesting point in this script is the drama
tisation. The first communicator, with great difficulty,
produces only an attempt at a word. The second describes
that word as part of a test, says that it concerns me and
attempts to add a further point for its identification. The
third, in a few words written with comparative ease, gives
a description of the book such as suits very well the supposed
situation, viz., that of an intermediary not himself acquainted
with the passage in question but endeavouring to help in the
transmission under difficulties of a somewhat technical allusion.
My own script of December 19th—the Friday suggested for
writing by Mrs. Forbes—contained some fresh points about
the Symposium, passage1 but no direct reference to Mrs.
Forbes. Before writing on Dec. 19th I had turned my thoughts,
as noted at the time, to Diotima and the Symposium, hoping
that Mrs. Forbes would get the words Plato or Eros to com
plete the proof.
(XXXIII.) December 19th, 1902.
Mrs. Forbes' next script on December 19th, 1902, contained
an attempt to produce verifiable matter concerning my hus
band. It was not successful, being vague, but contained the
phrase Dr. Verrall on Mrs. VerraU's sofa.
In my husband's study there is a sofa of mine which he
has occasionally used and began to use pretty regularly in
the year 1902. So far as we know Mrs. Forbes knew nothing
of this sofa or its being called my sofa. But the point is a
small one.2
1 For a complete account of the part played by this passage in
my automatic writing, see below, p. 310. The- connexion with
Mrs. Forbes is only a part of the whole episode.
2 See below No. XXXIX. for possible further development of this,
incident.
246 Chapter XI. [PART
(XXXIV.) December 26th, 1902.
My next reference to Mrs. Forbes was on December 26th,
1902 (No. 16):
Mrs. Forbes will get the words I want, but wait, happy is the
hour, let your thoughts follow her, do not write.
Some of the words wanted to complete the reference to the
Symposium, were at least partially obtained in Mrs. Forbes'
writing. This is the most convenient place to describe those
attempts.
On January 6th, 1903, her script had combinations of
letters suggestive of the Greek name " sumposion " ; thus :
"... son . . . son suspuro suspiro sryseo sym on H. eros."
Faint scribbles contain a possible suggestion of Greek letters,
but there is no identifiable Greek character.
On January llth unmistakeable isolated Greek1 characters
were produced : «, e, p, cr, </>, ?, a ; and described as part of
an uncompleted test.
On February 20th there appeared all we write is really
SYMP (here the line ended and the next began)—a the tic (?)2
This suggests that what Mrs. Forbes calls a guess had com
pleted the word. The first four letters Symp are larger and
separated from the following three groups of letters.
On March 2nd her script had : Write to Mrs. Verrall to say
the word we want to send her to-day is sympathy come y,
and in the same script was a scrawl which Mr. Piddington, to
whom I sent it, interpreted as an attempt to produce "E/wo?
love," and a second scrawl which he read as " o e r o ? " [sic].
On April 1st, after something about a seal in a drawer,
with written words, came " s y m p athy," again suggesting
that to symp had been added an obvious termination. The
like came again in the same script: "Seal s ym p athy write
this." Here followed an archaic Greek capital S— the initial
letter of the dialogue.3
1 Mrs. Forbes does not know the Greek alphabet and has never
consciously written Greek characters.
2 The question-mark was written by Mrs. Forbes in her script as
sent to me.
3 Mrs. Forbes attached so little meaning to this sign that she omitted
it in the copy sent me, though it is plain in the original.
LIU.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 247
(XXXV.) January 3rd and 4th, 1903.
The next incident concerns a communication obtained
through Planchette by Mrs. Forbes and Mrs. Baltimore.
On January 3rd they obtained : Short are the words to the
writer but long to the reader—write this with date and hour
to Mrs. Verrall.
On January 4th they obtained another message to me, con
fused, but indicating that I was to look in my own room
for a lost something hid in some article of furniture.
The only fact with which we could in any way connect this
was the loss of a note of my husband's referring to his thought-
transference experiment.1 The loss had been finally announced
by him to me on January 4th. But it seems very doubtful
whether this is within the meaning of the Planchette message.
A further reference to this incident possibly appears in my
script of January 21st (see below, No. XXXIX.).
(XXXVI.) January 6th, 1903.
Mrs. Forbes' script of this date contained attempts (see above)
at the word Symposium. It was not posted, but given to me
by her when we met in London on January 7th. On January
9th I met Mrs. Baltimore for the first time at Mrs Forbes'
invitation.
(XXXVII.) January 14th, 1903.
On January 14th (No. 17) my own script, written in Lon
don, when I had been there nearly a month, and was about to
leave, said :
Mrs. Forbes has sent it to you—or should have by now; she
has got nearer and will get the word. Write more often this month
—we can do more now for you. Your husband's test goes forward,
Mrs. Forbes gets that better than you do—write regularly—there
will be news for you to write next week—good news before the
month is out.
The last sentences are too vague to be valuable. The first
remark seemed to me at the time incorrect. I had received
nothing from Mrs. Forbes since our meeting in London, and
found nothing from her when I reached home on January
1See above, p. 157.
248 Chapter XI. [PART
16th. But I subsequently ascertained that she had had a
message for me on January llth, containing unmistakeable
Greek characters,1 so that she might be said to have " got
nearer to the word I wanted." Contrary to her custom, she
had not sent me the script at once. Nor did she send me
a fragmentary message about opening a book which she
obtained on January 13th. On January 14th, at 5.30 p.m.,
she was reminded by her script of these omissions : H. wants
you to write to friends. This reminder in her script preceded
by one hour and a half the statement in my script that a
more successful attempt had been made by her, and had been,
or should have been, sent to me. As a matter of fact, it was
only on January 20th that Mrs. Forbes sent me her scripts of
January llth, 13th, and 14th together with another, and owing
to my having left London, they did not reach me till the
evening of January 23rd.
(XXXVIII.) January 18th, 1903.
On Sunday, January 18th, 1903, before writing, I made an
experiment of the same type as those of October 27th and
31st, 1902.2 I fixed my attention on talks with H. on certain
days in 1900, and noted this before obtaining script.
On January 20th Mrs. Forbes, who knew nothing of this,
wrote automatically that there had been some connexion
between H. and me on Sunday during a sitting : H. writes to
say Verrall . . . Verrall saw with H. on Sunday. And
again : Mrs. Verrall was with H. on Sunday when he (or
she) sat with Mr. . . . This letter I received as above
described on January 23rd. It is interesting to find the
experiment made by me before writing on January 18th again
reflected in Mrs. Forbes' script a few days later. This time
the evidence is complete, as my script with the note upon
it was out of my hands before I received her letter.
(XXXIX.) January 21st, 1903.
On January 21st, 1903 (No. 18), my script, after a refer
ence to the Symposium, went on:
Wait for the word from Mrs. Forbes. The paper is hid in your
house and should be found. It was in a book, not loose, not a
!See above, p. 246. 2See above, No. XXVIIL, p. 239.
LIU.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 240
paper, but part of something. It is on a table, why don't you
look—The paper is blue or grey, blue I think—a ragged bit of torn
paper—It is inside something.
Try your sofa—that is partly right—he could remember.
There is little or nothing in this. It obviously refers to my
husband's lost note. The description of the paper (according
to his recollection) is right but not distinctive.
(XL.) January 25th, 1903.
On January 25th, 1903, Mrs. Forbes and I sat simultaneously
to try for automatic writing in accordance with a suggestion
of her script on January 22nd. My writing contained no
reference to her. Her writing contained an attempt to give
verifiable matter concerning my husband, as follows : " But
you can tell her that H. sat with her—when she sat still
in the . . . Mr. Verrall's room—with . . . on her . . . Mr.
Verrall Dr. Verrall was with own work—say luork work of
. . . Let us see first the Cambridge writer—on the chair lies
the Paper—the work is done . . . no word H. will ever
see ... it is too far for you to travel."
My husband finished a particular bit of work (a paper on a
classical subject) on the afternoon of this day, and put it
when finished on a chair beside him. The words, " Let us see
. . . work is done," may refer to this. Mrs. Forbes' script
was written at 6.30 p.m.
(XLI.) February 2nd, 1903.
On February 2nd, 1903, Mrs. Forbes and I again sat simul
taneously by arrangement. This time her writing contained
nothing evidential, but my script (No. 19) seems to have
produced something intelligible to her. After curious Latin
allusions to the Feast of the Purification, confused, as I have
described,1 with a Nativity, and a remark about a friend whom
I was to meet the next day, it wrote :
Harriet de Vane with another.
The name Harriet was in a hand resembling that of Mrs.
Forbes, and the words quoted were followed by nonsense words
!See p. 121.
250 Chapter XL [PART
in a hand distinctly resembling the less legible parts of her writ
ing. I took the name Harriet de Vane as intended for sending
to Mrs. Forbes, and sent it accordingly. I then heard from
her that she has a pastel drawing of her great-grandmother
by Harriet de Vim. The drawing is in the room where she
was writing automatically on February 2nd. I had been in
the room and must have seen the portrait, but on a subsequent
visit I ascertained that the name of the artist is not visible.
Mrs. Forbes also told me that her husband's birthday is Feb
ruary 2nd, so that if any connexion is admitted between her
script and mine, it is conceivable that her thought of Feb
ruary 2nd as a birthday may have contributed to the intro
duction into my script of incidents more appropriate to a
Nativity than to a Purification.
(XLII.) February 22nd and 23rd, 1903.
On these days by arrangement I sat for automatic writing
simultaneously with Mrs. Forbes and Mrs. Baltimore. On Feb
ruary 22nd nothing evidential occurred.
On February 23rd the experiment seems to have been more
successful. My own script dated 6.15 p.m. (No. 20) said:
Mrs. Forbes has got a message but not about the word,1 you must
wait for that.
After a few more vague encouragements in Latin there is a
blank in the script and I am aware that at some point
during the writing, probably at this point, I went to sleep.
I was roused by the slamming of a door and wrote rapidly
on waking. The next words after the gap were :
It has helped them and you will get a message now plain to
read. Send this to her.
I noted that my writing was over at 6.30. I have no doubt
that the momentary sleep came immediately before the remark
that it had helped, and I took the " it " to refer to this sleep.2
At 6 p.m. Mrs. Forbes and Mrs. Baltimore began their
1 Obviously the test word which Mrs. Forbes knew me to be
expecting. See Nos. XXXI., XXXII.
2 The incident of my sleepiness was noted on the original document
as soon as the automatic writing was completed.
LIIL] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 251
experiment and at Planchette's suggestion used a glass and
letters, so that their words were not written but spelt out:
Tell Mrs. Verrall to take care—to go—Hove when she
is visiting Brighton ALFRED. At this point they resumed
Planchette, which wrote : Tell Mrs. Verrall H. sees with
a trouble of which he cannot speak—you will know—when
he writes—Hove.
This message was only too appropriate. For some days my
mind had been much occupied with a trouble connected with
the illness of the daughter of a friend of mine, Alfred, who
was living at Hove, near Brighton. On February 16th or
17th I had received from his wife a letter which had dis
tressed me. I answered this on February 17th; on February
18th I saw in London some members of his family; on
February 19th I received another seriously disturbing letter
and discussed its contents with my husband on that evening,
and the next morning, on February 20th, I wrote to Alfred's
wife saying that I hoped no decision would have to be
arrived at before we went to Brighton at Easter. This subject
then had been occupying me greatly for some days and the
form that my thoughts constantly took was regret for the
trouble of Alfred and his wife.
The suggestion that I should go to Hove when visiting
Brighton and the connexion of this suggestion with the word
"trouble" and the name Alfred closely corresponded with
feelings of mine which it seemed impossible for the writers
to know. I enquired of them whether the combination of
names (i.e. Hove, Brighton, Alfred) suggested to them any
associations and if so, what? Mrs. Forbes wrote that they
had none for her; that she hardly knew Brighton and had
no friends living there. Mrs. Baltimore replied that she had no
associations except that she knew Hove to be near Brighton.
Alfred knew nothing of either lady. It seems therefore clear
that the Planchette writers had no knowledge which could
have led to the production of the message sent to me. It
seems equally clear that my script was correct in stating that
Mrs. Forbes had a message, not about my test, and that
it would be plain to read. It is probable that at least part
of their writing must have been subsequent to mine.
252 Chapter XI. [PART
The process of spelling words is very slow and as they had
had some writing with Planchette before the spelling process
began it is unlikely that their sitting should have been over
at 6.30, when my own was completed.
(XLIII.) March llth and 15th, 1903.
On March llth, 1903, my script wrote as follows (No. 21):
Kal SfKaTQ •f^f/Lfp^ cas avT'as yap Kal <TV Kal aAAos «i?
e\Ooire av. o/j.fjia.Ti \pfjv6ai * on that day watch, not alone,
when the vision comes note the day and count from now.
Mrs. Forbes has got the other word and will send it—not Sym
posium but it helps and is clear. I don't think she knows it is
for you but you will understand.
The first paragraph is obscure and was quite unintelligible
at the time. The second paragraph states plainly that Mrs.
Forbes has got another word for me not the word of the
Symposium. On March 15—possibly in consequence of the
numerical suggestion in the opening words of the above script—
my script recurred to the topic and after attempts at a word
and a reference to Dr. Hodgson, wrote :
Mrs. Forbes is slow but she has something which you have not
seen,
and finally told me to " Ask Mrs. Forbes for hers."
As I have said above,1 on March 10 one of Mrs. Piper's trance-
personalities made attempts—obviously incomplete—to give a
password for reproduction by other automatists. So that the
suggestion in the words of the first paragraph on March 11
(" You and another," " not alone,") of an attempt at a cross-
correspondence is not inappropriate if applied to me and Mrs.
Piper's trance-personality. But the statement in the second
paragraph of March 11 about Mrs. Forbes is incorrect. Early
in March Mrs. Forbes had been called away by sudden illness
and had had no time for automatic writing.
* Trans. " On the fifteenth day (reading ire/iuTTy for jre/wrrij), for
in the same way will both you and another come to understanding.
Use sight."
1 See p. 217. The supposed word, as I later learnt from Dr.
Hodgson, was an unintelligible collection of letters, stabdelta.
tin.] Gross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 253
(XLIV.) April 2nd, 1903.
On April 2nd, 1903, in the train between London and
Brighton my script wrote (No. 23) :
Mrs. Forbes has gone home ask her to write next week on
Wednesday—she will know why.
On reaching Brighton I found a letter from Mrs. Forbes from
her own home, where I did not know her to be, enclosing
the automatic writing mentioned in No. XXXIV., written on
Wednesday, April 1st. In a subsequent letter, April 6th, Mrs.
Forbes told me that on Wednesday, April 1st, after she
finished her letter to me her hand wrote automatically some
thing about writing on Wednesday. She was uncertain
whether this referred to the past or future, but finding on
examination that she had not written on Wednesday, March
25th, she took it to refer to Wednesday, April 8th. In that
case her script of April 1st and mine of April 2nd agreed
in recommending that Mrs. Forbes should write on Wednesday,
April 8th.1
<XLV.) April 8th and 10th.
Mrs. Forbes' script of the 8th contained further allusions to
the attempt to reproduce a word wanted by me.
A new point, however, was introduced into her script by
the word " daughter " in connexion with me, apparently
suggesting that my daughter should take some part in this
interconnexion.2 This suggestion, so vague on April 8th that
I might have overlooked it altogether, was emphasised in Mrs.
Forbes' script of April 10th. This began with a statement
that something was to be corrected in the script of April 8th;
it went on with a message, absolutely unintelligible to Mrs.
Forbes and me but with a meaning for my daughter; it
then said that the automatic writing would be far less
difficult to understand if " the younger Verrall " wrote with
1 Mrs. Forbes' script about writing on Wednesday has not been
preserved. It was produced when she was laid up in bed and had
no proper paper or pencil at hand. " So as evidence it is value
less," as she wrote on April 6th.
2 The actual words were : " Tell Mrs. Verrall's . . . you . . . one of
daughter more."
254 Chapter XL [PART
Planchette; and finally suggested that my daughter and I
should sit simultaneously with Mrs. Forbes on Sunday, i.e.
April 12th. The meaning was made perfectly clear by the
addition on April llth that by "Verrall" "Helen Verrall" was
intended.
The actual words were as follows; April 10th:
Will you be so good as to write—to arrive to-morrow—
to tell Mrs. Verrall our letter must be read with one word
corrected which means more. E.G. . . . A grower of flowers
one year will be sower of seed—Send this message. Edmund
writes for H. to ask you to say it will be far less
difficult to read the sense if the younger Verrall writes with
Planchette. . . . Mrs. Verrall can be sure of this—sit on
Sunday—Mother daughter yourself.
On April llth: Our word was not Verrall—Helen Verrall
she would see with—would she sit.
I read the above script to my daughter and she at once
said that the message could be explained by a fact in her recent
experience. She had been staying from March 25th to April
2nd, with a friend who is a professional gardener, and during her
visit there was much discussion over a suggestion of her friend's
new head-man that certain plants should be grown from seed
which hitherto had been raised from cuttings. The new man
was particularly skilled in raising plants from seed. My
daughter who is very familiar with the methods of her gardener-
friend, was much interested in the discussion ; and she at once
recognised a reference to this subject in the phrase "a grower
of flowers one year will be sower of seed."
The above facts were entirely unknown to me, and Mrs.
Forbes had no knowledge of my daughter's movements or
that she had any horticultural friend.
(XLVI.) April 14th-18th, 1903.
From April J.4th-18th my daughter and I stayed with
Mrs. Forbes, but no allusions to Mrs. Forbes appear in my
script of April 17th, the only one obtained during the visit.
(XLVII.) May 1st and 2nd, 1903.
On May 1st and 2nd Mrs. Forbes' script seems to have
LIU.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 255
made further efforts to trace my husband's lost paper (see Nos.
XXXIII., XXXV., XXXIX.). On May 1st she wrote : Dr. Verrall
mll be the finder—say nothing but this—Mrs. Verrall must
be careful to look soon—some of the test paper will be found—
wall(?) of study on left side—left of—Mrs. Verrall. And
on May 2nd : Send the written message to Mrs. Vert all.
Say a drawer open with no way of fastening the opening—
Mrs. Verrall will see in . . . inside a ... a simple . . .
open letter . . . a word which will shew—H. will send
this . . . let Mrs. Verrall see with care it is soon found—
open drawer no means fastening look for your . The
script then went on to say that I should be in telepathic
communication with a friend, " Mrs. S, Alice."
Not much can be made of the first paragraph. My husband
thought that he had placed the missing paper in the left-
hand drawer of his study table which has a key, though for
some reason the lock does not work. But he thinks that
the words, written on paper, were placed inside an envelope,
so that the description, "a simple open letter," are hardly
suitable. Mrs. Forbes, it should be remembered, had received
no information about our loss.
The second suggestion about my friend is interesting. On
May 2nd, the date of Mrs. Forbes' script, I had received a
letter from my friend, Mrs. Dew Smith (Alice) about a correct
reference to her in my script of April 27th.1 Mrs. Forbes and
Mrs. Dew Smith are not acquainted, nor had I spoken of Mrs.
Dew Smith to Mrs. Forbes.
(XLVIII.) May 10th and 12th, 1903.
Another attempt, this time by Mrs. Forbes and Mrs. Baltimore
together to pursue the lost paper, seems to have failed : " Write
to Mrs. Verrall and tell her to seek still further for the
paper—Mr. Verrall's. Mr. (or Mrs.) Verrall left it on the
shelf where she was looking.
This was wholly unintelligible, and no light was thrown by
another reference to the subject in Mrs. Forbes' script of May
12th. No further reference to this subject has been made
either by Mrs. Forbes or me.
!See account of references to Mrs. Dew Smith above, p. 174.
256 Chapter XL [PART
<XLIX.) June 29th, 1903.
On June 4tb, 1903, I went abroad, and, as I have said above,
the automatic writing was for the most part very poor and
incorrect during that absence. On June 29th it contained a
reference to Mrs. Forbes (No. 24).
Mrs. Forbes has lost your clue—she cannot get it now.
<L.) June 30th, 1903.
Mrs. Forbes' script of June 30th, 1903, possibly showed
knowledge of what I was thinking about at the time, but the
reference is very vague. At the end of June, or quite early
in July, certainly before July 3rd, we received in Switzerland
news of the very serious illness of a relative, and anxiously
waited further news from Brighton. On June 30th Mrs.
Forbes' script wrote : Mrs. Verrall is trying to see with
Brighton friends who send the letter to be read. H. writes
with sympathy. This message she was told to send to me,
and it reached me on July 6th.
<LI.) July 10th, 1903.
Mrs. Forbes' script of July 10th, 1903, contained for the
first time the name of a person known only by name and
reputation to her and to me. The incident is only mentioned
on account of its possible effect on my own subsequent
writing, for shortly afterwards, on July 21, 1903, my script
produced allusions to the same person.
(LIT.) July 17th, 1903.
My script on this day wrote (No. 25) :
Mrs. Forbes has something which should settle the date—it
fills your gap.
This was and is wholly unintelligible.
(LIII.) July 26th, 1903.
On July 26th, 1903, Mrs. Forbes tried an experiment noted
by her as follows : " Ask E.G. to try to impress Mrs. Verrall
with the idea of our lilies D.M.T.F." This she sent to me
in a closed envelope on July 26th asking me to keep it unopened.
On July 30th she wrote that she had tried to impress me
with the word or idea " lilies," but that the experiment had
LIII.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 257
evidently failed. She asked me to tell her whether it had
had any effect at all, but told me that her script of July 29th
had written : Worth while to try the experiment but the lilies
would grow by our own garden, from which she concluded
that I had had no reference to them.
I had no automatic script after July 21st and before
hearing from Mrs. Forbes of her experiment, so that as regards
my script there had been no chance of testing the experiment.
I had no impression of Mrs. Forbes or of lilies in the required
period. My daughter was occasionally obtaining automatic
writing at this time, and on July 26th, about 9.10 p.m., some
six hours after Mrs. Forbes' recorded desire that Edmund
Gurney should impress an idea upon me, she had, I found,
obtained writing, signed for the first and only time with the
signature " E. Gurney," resembling, as I noted at the time,
the same signature as it appears in Mrs. Forbes' script. My
daughter had never seen any signature of Mr. Gurney's, but
as she had tried Planchette with Mrs. Forbes, it may be taken
that she knew how that signature appeared in Mrs. Forbes'
script. The style, then, of the signature is not evidential, but
it struck me as interesting that such a signature should appear
at all in my daughter's writing, and especially at this time,
and for this reason I expected some further development of the
incident.
I said nothing to my daughter of Mrs. Forbes' experiment.
On August 23rd my daughter had a reference in her script
to lilies, and to Mrs. Forbes, so that it seemed as though the
experiment might be producing an effect. There were other
points in the script, and I wrote on August 24th to enquire
if they applied to Mrs. Forbes. My letter was as follows :
" The exact message is this ' if you had seen her picking the
lilies you would have understood,' then she goes on about 'a
red light,' which she first wrote about in your house, shewing
that you are somewhere in the mind of the writer, and finally
comes this, ' the house is large and there is a belt of rhodo
dendrons. In the north you have seen it. Go and look.
Renoldson is a clue. What about those daisies ? Did you
pick them after all ? Not you I mean but Mrs. Forbes.' Then
comes a Latin sentence saying that the memory of these
R
258 Chapter XI. [PART
things will not be incorrect as of all things they were what
pleased (him or her)1 most." I asked whether any of this
meant anything to Mrs. Forbes and said that we knew of no
house with a belt of rhododendrons, though the next sentence
of the script might mean that Mrs. Forbes' house is in the
north, and that my daughter had seen it.
To these questions Mrs. Forbes answered as follows : " There
was no effort [on my part] to ' impress ' it [i.e. the message].
I looked at the lilies, cut some and mentally asked if it would
be possible to tell ' our friends at Cambridge ' [i.e. the Verralls]
about them. We have been planting a belt of rhododendrons
in the little wood to the north of the garden and I have often
looked to see if they were growing. The lilies were distinctly
the things that pleased me most in the garden this summer."
It thus appears that my daughter's script of August 28th
was correct in stating that the lilies were picked by Mrs. Forbes.
It is correct also in connecting with the lilies a belt of rhodo
dendrons, of which neither my daughter nor I had any normal
knowledge,2 as the planting of these rhododendrons was subse
quent to our visit. The obscure Latin sentence with which
the script concludes, if interpreted as I did interpret it at the
time, is appropriate, as Mrs. Forbes points out, the lilies having
been chosen as the subject of experiment at a moment when
the pleasure derived from them was felt.
We cannot see that " Renoldson is a clue," nor do the
" daisies " seem to have any meaning in this incident. But
there can, I think, be little doubt that the allusions in my
daughter's script of August 23rd, following on the signature
in her script of July 26th, are the direct result of Mrs.
Forbes' experiment, wholly unknown to her, of July 26th.3
1 Latin ei. The sentence runs thus : " scilicet memoria harum rerum
non fallet quod ex omnibus maximum ei praefuere."
2 This is shown plainly in my letter of August 24th to Mrs.
Forbes.
3 This incident finds a parallel in the incident described on p. 213.
There an attempt on the part of Mrs. Piper's trance-personality to
make an impression upon my daughter seems to have missed its
aim, and to have been recorded in my script. Here, on the contrary,
an attempt on Mrs. Forbes' part to impress me failed, but was
recorded in my daughter's script.
LIU.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 259
<LIV.) July 31st, 1903.
On July 31st I heard from Mrs. Forbes that she was going
to Italy next month. In my script of July 21st something
had been written about a picture at Venice,1 and on July 31st
(No. 26) the scribe wrote as follows :
The picture in the picture-frame—upon the wall—& no name
upon it—in her room, ask Mrs. Forbes. She has thought lately
of the picture, and will remember.
And again, after an interval:
ask Mrs. Forbes whether she knows the likeness in the picture—
she may know. Go into the gallery at Venice, the lady with the
pearls.
And again:
More another time, but ask Mrs. Forbes if she knows. More
through Helen later. Do not tire her.
On August 10th, in answer to enquiry, I learned from
Mrs. Forbes that she had lately put a tiny sketch of Venice
into a frame. There was no name on the sketch. The picture
was not hung, but was resting against the wall in the drawing-
room. It had been framed before July 31st. The words, then,
of the script about the " picture in the picture-frame," which
seemed unmeaning to me, are intelligible if referred to a recently
framed picture, and the other statements in the same paragraph
are in that case correct. The later paragraphs conveyed no
meaning to Mrs. Forbes.
The reference in my script of July 21st to a picture at
Venice and the subsequently received information that Mrs.
Forbes was likely to go to Italy, may well account for the
suggestion in the script of July 31st that Mrs. Forbes should
be asked to look for a picture there, but does not account for the
production of the statement concerning the picture in a frame
in Mrs. Forbes' room lately thought of by her.
<LV.) August llth, 1903.
On August llth, 1903, in speaking to a friend, Mr. M. A.
Bayfield, of S.P.R. investigations and the difficulty of coming
1 I have never been to Venice. The picture described was apparently
a portrait resembling some one unknown to me.
260 Chapter XI. [PART
to any conclusions, I used the phrase, " Anyhow they teach
one patience, which is perhaps the hardest thing to learn."
On August 12th I received from Mrs. Forbes a copy of
Planchette writing obtained by herself and Mrs. Baltimore.
The last lesson to be learned is Patience; Mrs. Verrall is
our friend who has so much—she will be rewarded by making
plain the tangle. The expression struck me as closely recalling
my words of the same date.1 The script was received by
the first post with no explanation ; by the second post followed
a letter from Mrs. Forbes explaining that there had been an
"insistent command" to send the message to me by a "mes
senger we could trust," and that they had hastily written it
out for Mrs. Baltimore to post herself. This seems to show
an impression on the side of the Planchette writers that the
date of the Planchette message was important, that is to say
that the message referred to something specific and was not
merely general.
(LVI.) August 18th, 1903.
On August 18th, 1903, Mrs. Forbes had two messages for
me at the beginning and end of the morning : 10 a.m. Great
sympathy for our friends . . . Death . . . Talbot writes to
say it will be better—Mrs. Verrall writes first. 1.45 p.m.,
after general directions to write automatically, Mother of
Helen writes—Mrs. Verrall . . . your son's name gives the
clue.
This is too vague to be useful. A friend of mine, unknown
to Mrs. Forbes, was very seriously ill at the time and died
ten days later. The name Talbot has no connexion with
this friend.
(LVII.) October 6th and 7th, 1903.
Soon after the last mentioned writing Mrs. Forbes went
abroad, and no further intercourse took place till after her
return. On October 6th my script (No. 27) wrote :
!I have no note as to which came first, the Planchette-writing
or our conversation. I mentioned the Planchette-writing to Mr.
Bayfield as soon as I received the letter, and he, like me, was
struck with the connexion indicated between the Planchette message
and the sentiment expressed by me on the preceding day.
LIIL] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 261
Mrs. Forbes comes home this week and will have a message for
you. But she found no picture at Venice. She has had a success
while she was away—ask about it. Her mother will want her much
this winter—she will be in the south.
And on October 7th (No. 28) it added :
Write to Mrs. Forbes—tell her not to look for the chain—any
,other trinket will do as well. That is not quite right, but I think
she will understand.
In my suggestion to Mrs. Forbes to look for a portrait at
Venice described in my script I had included the phrase, "the
lady with the pearls." On August 23rd, in the same writing
of my daughter's which alluded to Mrs. Forbes" experiment
with the lilies (No. LIII.) came the phrase, "why did Mrs.
Verrall not understand about those pearls. We said it plainly,
It is a clue."1 This correction about the pearls may possibly
Tiave been the further help " through Helen " promised in my
script of July 31st. In any case the script of October 7th
seems to have intended to correct an impression of Mrs. Forbes
about the pearls. On October 8th Mrs. Forbes, after receiving
my script of October 7th, wrote to me that the message about
not looking for the chain was appropriate, for she had looked
•with much care for a chain of pearls, and did not believe there
was any portrait of a lady wearing one in Venice. The writing,
therefore, of October 7th was at least intelligible to Mrs. Forbes,
and it claimed perhaps no more.
The script of October 6th made three statements. The first
that Mrs. Forbes was coming home that week and that she
found no such picture at Venice as described, was correct, but
not beyond a guess. The second, that she had a success while
she was away, corresponded to her own feeling ; at Venice
there came to her an impression which explained some things
unintelligible hitherto.2
The third statement is much more definite and proved to
be correct, though I had no normal ground for any such
1 My daughter knew nothing of the allusions in my script to the
lady with the pearls.
2 This impression was told by her to me, and my estimate of it
confirms her own.
262 Chapter XL [PART
conjecture. On November 30th, when Mrs. Forbes spent one
night with me, she told me of her mother's illness. Naturally
I said nothing of the above script. On December 2nd she
was telegraphed for to go to her mother's house in the south,
whence she wrote to me on December oth saying that she
would have to stay a long time away from home, and noting
the difficulty caused by the distance between her own and
her mother's home.
(LVIII.) October 27th, 1903.
Between October 9th and 12th it was arranged that I
should sit for the first time with a friend in town on the last
Tuesday of October (27th) and the first Tuesday in November
(3rd). Of this Mrs. Forbes knew nothing beyond the fact that
I was going to town some time before November 18th, and
hoped to do some experiments there. In her automatic script
of October 22nd or 23rd she had a confused message about
me which her script instructed her to send to Mr. Piddington.
In this it was said that the last—day of October 1 would be the
first sitting. I heard of this from her in a letter written on
October 27th, asking whether I had had any writing on the
22nd and 23rd which might account for her message ; the
message itself had been sent to Mr. Piddington according to
the script's instructions instead of to me.
(LIX.) October 30th, 1903.
My script of October 30th, 1903 (No. 29), wrote :
Send this Blue forget-me-nots tied with short lengths of ribbon
—ask Mrs. Forbes to send you a flower. I have given her one
message about you.
I took no notice of this and nothing came of it.
(LX.) November 23rd, 1903.
On November 23rd, 1903, my script wrote as follows (No.
30):
1 There was a space before 'day,' so that it was not clear what
was intended, whether 'day,' or some named day, such e.g. a&
'Monday/ 'Tuesday.'
Liu.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 263
Mrs. Forbes has a special message for you which you will
understand.
dXAo TI ovSf croi P.OVIJ *
Ores cent saecla
Crenent crest [then a drawing of the Gurwood crest] 1
look up that for help.
Gurney wrote the word ask Mrs. Forbes.
[drawing of four-petalled flower]
The broken words in the middle of this writing I took to
be gradual emergences of the name Gurney passing through
Crest and Gurwood. So -that, omitting the final drawing, all
it came to was a statement that Gurney wrote a word for me,
and apparently alluded to this in a message to Mrs. Forbes.
I heard nothing from Mrs. Forbes, so on November 25th I
wrote telling her of the opening words only : " Mrs. Forbes has
a special message for you which you will understand." On
November 27th her script had as follows : H. must
send the . . . word (? ward) to be with Edmund Gurney,
and again : Would you send Mrs. Verrall a message ?
be sure it is sent. Edmund Gurney, Talbot and H.
write Mrs. VerraU's script. If her reading "word" is correct,
there is perhaps a connexion between her script of
November 27th and that part of mine of the 23rd, which
she had not seen. The reference to "Gurney" in both scripts
does not count, as the name often comes in her writing, though
rarely in mine.2 No script of hers, however, was forthcoming
till I asked whether she had a message, and the distinctive
features of my script, the drawings and the word " crest,"
were lacking in hers.
On November 29th my daughter, who knew nothing of
the above,3 wrote automatically : " Mrs. Forbes will have a
* Trans. " Something else and not for you alone."
^or the Gurwood crest see S.P.K. Journal, Vol. IV. p. 174.
2 On no other occasion in conjunction with the name of Mrs.
Forbes.
3 My daughter knew that Mrs. Forbes was shortly coming to stay
with me, and that another automatist had, on November 3rd, implied
that simultaneous messages to two sensitives from E. G. might be
expected.
264 Chapter XI. [PART
message about Gurney," and these words were followed by two
quadruple drawings, distinctly resembling the four-petalled
flower in my script of the 23rd. The second of these draw
ings was described as "shamrock four-leaved."
Whether then there be a connexion or not between my
script of November 23rd and Mrs. Forbes' of November 27th,
there seems to have been a reflexion of mine in my daughter's
writing of November 5J9th, inasmuch as her script, like mine,
combined the names of Gurney and Mrs. Forbes, and contained
a sketch of a four-petalled flower.
(LXI.) November 30th, 1903.
Mrs. Forbes stayed with me on November 30th for one
night.
(LXII.) January 9th, 1904.
The next incident seems to be of the same type as above
(XXV.), where a message intended for me apparently went
to Mrs. Forbes. But here the process was reversed. It was
only when she applied to me for her message that I recognised
any meaning in my script. The incident is somewhat com
plicated.
On December llth, 1903, we left home for a long absence
in Algeria. No communication passed between Mrs. Forbes
and me, and I had no references to her for some time. On
December 27th my script made one of the appointments for
writing above described : 1
" Count days five, six and two, then listen and remember."
1 The last paragraph of the script was as follows :
"I have told you that the letter will come, I cannot say when,
but I see it open in your hands and your surprise; it is
nearer now than when I wrote before, but not immediate. count
days five six and two, then listen and remember."
It is possible that this was intended to say that on the day
indicated a letter would arrive. But the words " then listen " sug
gested that I was to write automatically, and that was the
interpretation I placed upon them.
On the day before, December 26th, there had been a remark
about a letter coming to me " from her " that " gives the news—
LIII.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 265
Accordingly, after thirteen days, on January 9th (No. 31) I
tried for writing, and after statements in English, came the
following paragraph in Latin :
Solacia attamen eiusdem doloris nee mihi nee tibi attinget—
ab aliis accipere debes : post septimam diem omnia comprehendere
poles. Fac scribas die septimo decimo.*
I could make nothing of this, though some points were
clear. An interpretation was to be expected on the seventh
day, i.e. on January 16th. Nothing else was evident except
that there was a reference to consolation for some grief.
On Saturday, January 16th, by the English mail at one
o'clock p.m., I received a letter from Mrs. Forbes, saying : " I
have been told to ask you to send me your last week's script;
my message is as follows : H. wrote the last week's message
to be sent to you—ask Mrs. Verrall to send it H. wrote the
message on ! for the friend at Cambridge see if it is true
write to ask her for the last week's script."
There was only one piece of script that could be described
as the last week's script, viz., that of Saturday, January 9th.
There had been script on December 25th, 26th, 27th, 29th, and
January 1st ; then only on January 9th. There was thus only
one piece of writing produced in the course of the week
preceding the date of Mrs. Forbes' letter, which was January
12th, and that was the piece containing an unintelligible
wait and be patient I cannot say what yon will think but I see
your surprise
nee urna deest, cineribus impleta tuorum.a
It is not what you think, don't try to understand wait."
The two allusions to a coming letter are no doubt connected, but
whether they have any reference to Mrs. Forbes and myself I
cannot say.
[" Trans. " Nor is there lacking the urn filled with the ashes of
your dead."]
* Trans. " Nevertheless consolation for the same grief will concern (1)
neither me nor you—you ought to receive it from others : after the
seventh day you will be able to understand everything. Write on
the seventeenth day."
1 The word in this gap Mrs. Forbes marked as not very clear ; it
might, she wrote, be "yesterday" or "Wednesday."
266 Chapter XI. [PART
message, for the explanation of which I was told to wait
seven days. The letter from Mrs. Forbes, received on the 7th
day, furnished the prospect of an explanation, and I sent to
her a copy of the script, asking if the contents were intelli
gible to her.
On January 27th I received her reply, enclosing copies of
her writing in early January, and telling me, what I did not
know, that January 6th was the anniversary of her son's
death. The script obtained by her was as follows : (a) On
January 4th a confused message that Mr. Gurney wanted to
send a message to me; (6) on January 5th a statement sug
gesting some connexion between her and me, followed by an
allusion to the loss of her son in the words : Will be with your
loss of your only son one of worthy parentage one who well
deserves . . . well rewarded. Follow this . . . it is Mrs.
. . . rall sends the answer who cares for it . . . this evi
dence is wor . . . Edmund writes tell this message Write
to the friends of Cambridge they are the . . . Talbot's friends
Send this letter do be careful it will be lost if you ;
(c) On January 12th the above quoted statement that the last
week's message was written for Mrs. Fobres, ask Mrs. Verrall to
send it, and again, write to ask her for the last week's script.
It will be seen that Mrs. Forbes' script of January 5th
began a message of consolation to her, which was left incom
plete; it suggested that I had some answer to send, and that
unless I were communicated with something would be lost. Mrs.
Forbes did not communicate with me at once, and on January
12th her script plainly told her to ask for a particular piece of
my script. The piece of my script so asked for contained a
remark about consolation for sorrow, unintelligible to me, but
explained, as promised in my script, seven days after its
reception.1
The above incident made a considerable impression on Mrs.
Forbes and me at the time, one of the best points being the
absence of unexplained or superfluous remarks in the script
1The Latin nee mihi nee tibi attinget is difficult to interpret. I
have translated it : " will concern neither me nor you," i.e. " the
grief is not ours." This interpretation is made more likely by the
next words plainly referring to others from whom I am to hear.
LIII.] Gross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 267
concerned. It is true that Mrs. Forbes' name does not occur
in my script but the script, by giving precisely the day on
which I was to receive explanation, definitely connects itself
with Mrs. Forbes, from whom I received the explanation on
that day. Mrs. Forbes' script was also quite clear ; an inter
rupted message of consolation to her was confirmed by some
thing in a piece of my writing which she obtained in answer
to instructions in her own script, and which, without those
instructions, she would certainly not have obtained.1
(LXIII.) January 25th, 1904.
On January 25th, 1904, after the receipt of the letter asking
for my script but before the completion of the explanation,
my script referred to Mrs. Forbes (No. 32) as follows :
Mrs. Forbes message was wrong listen to this : A letter from
Mr. Forbes to her at Cranford will go this month.
The first words are an obvious reflexion of my own know
ledge, about the mis-sent message. The last sentence is too
vague for verification. It was very probable that some time
in the course of January Mrs. Forbes, if Mrs. Forbes is intended,
would receive a letter from her husband at Cranford, the
name of her mother's house.
(LXIV.) April 13th, 1904.
On April 13th, 1904, my daughter and I, trying Planchette,
obtained some references to Mrs. Forbes, vague and of no value.
(LXV.) July 13th-16th, 1904.
On July 13th, 1904, after a long interval2 Mrs. Forbes'
script wrote an expression of desire to send a message cor
rectly to me. Mrs. Forbes was told in the script to send
1 It may be noted that, as I had no notion for whom the message
of consolation was intended, I could not convey it to any one, and
Mrs. Forbes would therefore have known nothing about it had she
not, at the suggestion of her script, written to ask me to send her a
particular bit of my writing.
2 There was no communication between January 9th-27th (LXII.
LXIII.) and July 13th, except (1) the Planchette writing of April
13th (LXIV), (2) a vague message in Mrs. Forbes' writing on May
24th to tell me to persevere, and (3) a letter from her about other
matters on June 1st.
268 Chapter XL [PART
this message to me and to tell me to begin to write from
to-morrow (i.e. July 14th, 1904). The message reached me on
July 14th. On July 13th, my own script definitely stated that
" the sentence from the Symposium " was in a sealed envelope
belonging to Sir Oliver Lodge. This statement was incorrect.1
If Mrs. Forbes' script, produced, after long silence, was in
tended as a correction of mine, it failed of its purpose, being
too indefinite. At the time it appeared more like a corroboration
than a correction. But its contents are too undefined to be
classified.
I was prevented from writing on July 14th. My script
(No. 33), on July 15th contained the words:
I cannot get the Greek words to Mrs. Forbes,
a mere reminiscence, as it appeared to me, of the long efforts of
her script to give the words of the Symposium.
On July 16th Mrs. Forbes' script suggested that some
episode was now closed and that some distinct success had
been accomplished; this information was to be sent to me.
The words are : Our dream of our own home will soon be
realized. All is written to the end of the first chapter. I was
overjoyed—our friends were here ; all I felt was great joy ;
all I knew was the end, of the first chapter seemed come,
with the next page began the real story. And again,
Send Mrs. Verrall this message. The end of the first chapter
has come—all will be ready for the next which begins—over
the page . . . great joy sympathy.
This writing remains quite unexplained.
<LXVI.) October 3rd, 1904.
The next reference in my script to Mrs. Forbes was on
October 3rd, 1904 (No. 34), when, in the train on my way
to London, about 11 a.m., it wrote:
Ella Forbes my cousin Send the letter to her. It is long
since you wrote.
In answer to enquiries, Mrs. Forbes wrote on October 15th
that on the morning of Monday, October 3rd, she was visiting
a cousin of Talbot Forbes, a man, A. W. Forbes. The initials
1 See below, p. 301.
LIU.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 269
A. W. in MS. are perhaps not unlike the name Ella, but the
feminine pronoun in the script is wrong unless it be taken
to refer to Mrs. Forbes (to whom obviously I was to write),
and not to its grammatical subject Ella Forbes. But nothing
can be made of the incident.
(LXVII.) October 14th and 15th, 1904.
In a letter of October 15th Mrs. Forbes told me of a
suggestion made in her script of October 14th, that I
should sit on Sunday, October 16th, to obtain some story
scene or episode. Tell Mrs. Verrall we will send the scene to
her . . , write this message I will send the scene to Mrs-
Verrall to be read by you. E.G.
I received this letter on the morning of October 16th. I
had no time to write till quite late in the evening. At 10.30
p.m. (No. 35), after other writing not bearing on the suggested
experiment, my script wrote the following :
Tell this.
in the fire-lighted room she & the dog alone, and the
thought came to her as she held up the screen before the fire—
and the dog stirred in his sleep—he felt that I was there.
It was only for a moment—but the scene was plain. Will
this meet your point? It is all that I can do
tonight.1
In addition to the writing, quite contrary to my usual
habit, I had a mental impression as I finished the script
of Mrs. Forbes sitting in her drawing-room, with the door into
the greenhouse open ; through that door a shadowy figure, which
I knew to be Talbot, came and stood in the window looking
at Mrs. Forbes.2
1 In a different hand.
2 Mrs. Forbes' drawing-room is known to me. It has two doors
at opposite ends of the room. The fireplace is opposite the entrance
door, and beside the fireplace is the door into the greenhouse. Close
to this door is a large window. The figure of which I had an
impression came through the open greenhouse door and stood in
the window. Mrs. Forbes was sitting on the further side of the
fireplace, in her usual place. This impression was not noted at
the time of writing the script. It was noted on October 21st after
hearing from Mrs. Forbes that the general description in my script
was correct, and before sending her the questions to which I received
definite answers on October 25th.
270 Chapter XI. [PART
I was expecting the script to produce "a story, scene or
episode," but from my knowledge of Mrs. Forbes' habits I
thought it so unlikely that she would have been writing at
any hour when the room could be described as " fire-lighted "—
which I took to mean at dusk before the lights were brought
in—that I did not send the script to her. She usually writes
automatically in the morning and has once or twice on a
Sunday written at 2 p.m.
On October 18th I heard from her enclosing her script
produced on October 16th at 5.45 p.m. The hour was not
inconsistent with the statement in my script, and the contents
of her script seemed also to show some coincidence. She
wrote : Gurney . . . write to you . . . from Cambridge
Q . . . you will be written to for a test is being given—
a very strong evidence . . . message will be given . . . go on
sitting after tea it is a good time I am free to sit here then
I wish you could be with me to see me—/ will try to send
the evidence we want. Gurney will be sure to give Mrs.
Verrall a ....
The supposed writer is not named in this script, but
familiarity with the style of Mrs. Forbes' script indicates that
it is Talbot Forbes.1 The writer expresses the wish that Mrs.
Forbes " could be with " him " to see " him, says that he is " free
to sit " where she is at the time of writing, which is described
as "after tea."2 I had not expected that she would write on
October 16th, there being no hint of any attempt at simul
taneous sitting in her letter proposing that I should write
on that day, but when I received her script I sent her the
account in my script of October 16th but said nothing of the
accompanying impression.
On October 19th she answered in general terms that mine
was a true description of her at the time of writing her script
on Sunday. In answer to detailed questions subsequently
1 It is common for the supposed Talbot to give no name, and
the comparative fluency of the sentences points to him as communi
cator. It is clear that "Gurney" is spoken of in the third person.
2 The suggestion of connexion with me cannot be reckoned among
coincidences, as Mrs. Forbes had proposed I should sit some time
on Oct. 16th.
LIU.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 271
sent she replied, in a letter received on October 25th, as
follows : 1 She was sitting in the drawing-room, there was a
small lamp behind her but little light. There was one dog
and one dog only in the room. She was not able to say
whether the dog stirred at any special moment. She was
holding a piece of paper as a screen in her hand. The door
to the greenhouse was open. I had not mentioned my
impression to her but had asked the question, " Had you any
thought of the door to the greenhouse ? " and to this she
replied, "The door to the greenhouse was open. / always
think of it before I settle down to read or write, as I see
myself that it is open."
The script was therefore fairly correct in its statements. The
word " fire-lighted," if taken strictly to mean unlighted other
wise, is not correct, but it perhaps can be interpreted less
strictly. Mrs. Forbes and the dog were alone; there had been
two dogs constantly with her when I last stayed at the house,
but only one was in the room on this occasion. She was holding
a piece of paper as a screen. The impression which I had that
the greenhouse door was open was correct. There was no
reason as far as I know why I should think of the greenhouse
•door at all. My so doing clearly established that the room
in question was the drawing-room. This at the time struck
me, as I associate Mrs. Forbes' automatic writing with her own
sitting-room and a particular desk at which she usually sits.
Apparently there was some appropriateness in the allusion
to the open greenhouse door, as her answer to my question
shows that she habitually sits with the greenhouse door open,
habit of hers not consciously observed by me.
{LXVIII.) December 21st, 28th, 1904, and January 6th, 1905.
The next three references concern the same subject, an
endeavour by my script to obtain in Mrs. Forbes" script an
allusion to an event deeply interesting to me. The attempt
seems to have failed completely.
The sealed envelope entrusted by Mr. Myers to Sir Oliver
Lodge was opened in London on December 13th, 1904, and
1 The actual questions and answers are given verbatim in Appendix,
p. 413.
272 Chapter XI. [PART
proved to contain a sentence bearing no resemblance to the
phrase from the Symposium which my script had led me to
expect. Mrs. Forbes knew nothing of the failure nor of the
proposal to open the envelope. On December 21st, the first
script obtained by me after the failure had the words
(No. 36):
Wait now and write regularly—I will send a message about this
through Mrs. Forbes—do not ask for it it may take time.
On December 28th the scribe wrote (No. 37):
Six days you must wait from now & other three—then the
message will make things clear. Let it come then.
I want to confirm it through Mrs. Forbes but she has not under
stood. I want her to write and sympathize with the failure and not
to know what it is. I shall try all this week—wait for her letter
and help. Think of her often, send a message to her in mind to-
write & say she is sure you are disappointed.
If not by Monday next it is too late for evidence—she will hear
the facts on Monday next.
I took no steps to communicate with Mrs. Forbes, but tried
for script on the date indicated, viz. January 6th.1 The script
then wrote:
Mrs. Forbes has been anxious this week but the anxiety is less
now. I could not make her hear what I wanted her to write to
you—but ask to see what she wrote on Monday.
After this I wrote to Mrs. Forbes as the experiment had
obviously failed. She replied that she had written no script
on the preceding Monday (January 2nd), having hardly had
any opportunity of writing for a long time. She had had
very little script for some weeks, and neither in the script
nor otherwise any special impression about me or the opening
of a sealed envelope. The attempt therefore to impress her
with a sense of my disappointment was a complete failure.
The foregoing account of what I have called the cross-corre
spondences between Mrs. Forbes and me is as complete as I
1 Six + three, i.e. nine days after December 28th. Note that Jan.
6 was the anniversary of Talbot Forbes' death, as I had learnt the
year before, though this allusion in my script did not at the time
suggest to me any associations of the date with Mrs. Forbes.
Lin.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 273
can make it.1 It seemed beat to relate the incidents in chrono
logical sequence with no attempt at classification or selection
and only brief comment. Premature classification is apt to
confuse, and the selection of isolated incidents—itself a species
of classification—is open to the further objection that, even
when the principle of selection is clearly laid down, no oppor
tunity is given to the reader of checking its application
Moreover, the exclusion from consideration of certain cases in
a series may be positively misleading unless accompanied by
a clear statement of the relative frequency of success compared
with failure in the excluded as well as in the included instances,
and such an Application of the statistical method is impossible
where the cases do not admit of unmistakeable division into
two classes and two only. There are few incidents in the long
preceding narrative which could, without further qualification,
be indisputably labelled as successes or failures.
Under these circumstances a complete and chronological
account of the coincidences seems necessary if any judgment is to
be formed. The historical arrangement has the further advantage
that it enables the reader to understand the conditions under
which the phenomena were produced, to ascertain, namely,
what knowledge and what expectation was present in the
mind of the writers on each particular occasion. Here, in
some respects, the present case offers special facilities. Where
the persons concerned are in constant and familiar communica
tion it is not easy to ascertain what at any given point
was the information possessed by either party. Here, how
ever, the acquaintance of Mrs. Forbes and myself preceded but
by a month or two the first incident in the series of cross-
correspondences, and even during the four succeeding years,
1901-1904, our opportunities for meeting were few.
We both were sufficiently familiar with the methods of
1 Every identifiable reference to Mrs. Forbes, whether by name
or allusion, in my script appears verbatim in the above. In the case
of Mrs. Forbes' script I have occasionally paraphrased instead of
transcribing, but wherever the phraseology seemed of importance I
have given the actual words. I have not included certain pieces of
her writing which were amplifications, confirmations, or reminiscences
of preceding script. Everything, however, of the nature of a state
ment, correction, or addition, has been included.
s
274 Chapter XI. [PART
investigation required in such cases to realise not only the
importance of preserving documents and obtaining external
corroboration, but also the value of noting before and after
verification any information that could throw light upon the
production of the script. Every letter that passed between
us has been kept. Many notes as to antecedent knowledge or
impression were made for our own or the other's use. We
were also aware of the confusion often introduced into the
script by involuntary efforts at guessing on the part of the
writer. It is to be remembered that neither Mrs. Forbes nor
I are in any way unconscious during the production of the
script, and so a natural tendency to complete a word of which
the first letters or syllables are given is often exhibited, when
some part of the automatic writing emerges more definitely
into consciousness than the rest, and this guessing may tend to
spoil or inhibit the phenomena.
It was to diminish this source of error and to make easier the
record of antecedent normal knowledge that Mrs. Forbes consented
for months to send me all writing referring to myself without
receiving from me any indication as to the value of her pro
ductions or any but the vaguest encouragement.1 Without
some such general encouragement the experiment could hardly
have been carried through. The continued production of what
is unintelligible to oneself and not enthusiastically received by
its only other reader is at best a laborious and thankless
task, and I wish here to express my great gratitude to Mrs.
Forbes for the patience and care which she exhibited throughout
and not least in this particular respect.
As to the value of the whole narrative, or the interest of
particular incidents, the reader must form his own opinion ;
there are two points in Mrs. Forbes' script to which I will
call attention.
(1) Difficulty of verbal expression.
This, a characteristic to some extent of all automatic writing,
is specially marked in Mrs. Forbes' script, much more so, for
1 It was not till after the opening of the sealed envelope in December,
1904, that Mrs. Forbes knew that there had been in her script
allusions which I could not mistake to an identified passage in a book.
LIU.] Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Forbes. 275
instance, than in my own. It often appears as though, at the
moment of approaching a particular word or phrase, the power,
whatever it is, fails, and it is not uncommon to obtain from a
general reading of the script a clear impression of its inten
tion, hardly justified by the actual phraseology. It is, in fact,
possible to see what it is driving at but does not precisely
express in words. A similar experience is common to all who
have listened to a foreigner whose acquaintance with English is
more extensive than his command of its vocabulary. This
is not the case with my own script, where, as the reader will
recall, the actual sentences are usually complete, though their
wording is often harsh or obscure.
(2) Dramatisation.
The dramatisation of the supposed communicators, and the
distribution among them of the various statements of the
script is conspicuous in the case of Mrs. Forbes, and curiously
well sustained. Would-be evidential matter, of a more or
less fragmentary description, is attributed to H., and the
general direction of the phenomena to Edmund Gurney.
The clearest, most fluent, and most definite statements come
from Talbot Forbes, who seems to intervene occasionally with
the object of stating clearly what has been left in confusion
by previous efforts. There are many instances of this, but
perhaps the most striking is the communication about the
Symposium on December 18th, 1902.1 My own script, here
as elsewhere, is less markedly dramatic in form. There is
perhaps a more personal touch in its references to Mrs. Forbes
than in other parts, but that may be due to the influence
of the suggestive dramatisations in Mrs. Forbes' script.
!See XXXII.
276 Chapter XII. [PART
CHAPTER XII.
MISCELLANEOUS REFERENCES TO PAST EVENTS.
IN the next two chapters I have collected together all such
references in the script to identifiable matter as have not already
been discussed in connexion with specified persons. For con
venience I have divided them according as they appear to relate
to what had already occurred at the time of writing or to what
was still to come. Beyond this broad division into Past and
Future, I have attempted no classification. The incidents show
considerable differences, both in character and value. If they
were classified by results they would range from complete
failure through many intermediate classes to complete success,
and much difference of opinion would be found as to the class
in which a particular incident should fall. What they all
possess is sufficient precision of statement to be connected,
whether correctly or not, with definite events. They are in
fact, or claim to be, identifiable, and many have been
identified. In this respect they differ from the "unidentifiable
statements or allusions" described in Chapter VI., though this
difference may be one of degree rather than of kind, and
so the same type of phenomenon may be represented in both.
But for critical purposes there is an important distinction
between detailed description so far unidentified and state
ments which, even if lacking in precision, yet present a point
of contact with an actual occurrence.
Where more than one reference in the script is made to
what is apparently the same incident, I have grouped these
references together.1 Occasionally two or three topics are so
constantly intermingled in the script that it has been impos
sible to disconnect them. But I have treated the incidents
as isolated units wherever that could be done.
1In all cases where no quotation from the script is given in
this narrative, extracts will be found in the Appendix, pp. 415-29.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 277
(1) In the first of the series of attempts to guess
e? aw, August 13th, 1901, at a time when, as the reader will
remember, I had no idea that my husband was trying any
experiment, the script produced an unmistakeable allusion to an
incident connected with him—the loss of a hat—some years
before. At the time the emergence of this memory seemed
wholly arbitrary, but, on reviewing the matter after I was
acquainted with the circumstances of his experiment, I am
disposed to think that some vague association of ideas may
account for the mention of the lost hat. The unrecognised
intention to find something wanted by my husband may have
revived in my memory the recollection of a lost object
belonging to him. The words of the script show a conscious
ness that the loss of the hat was known to me :
Hat—a black hat in a box belonging to him was lost something
blue near it. Ask—you know this—a blue tie in the hat.
The hatbox was lost with the hat in it ; but we have no
recollection of a tie or anything else lost with the hat. This
statement therefore has no evidential value, but it marks a
connexion with my husband in a piece of writing unmistakeably
aiming at the word " dawn." 1
(2) A description in the script (Jan. 8th, 1902) of some
incident occurring to a boy at school contains the word
" Angelns," following upon the phrase, "dormitory notice." This
looks like a reminiscence of the "Anglesea" which was my
husband's dormitory at Wellington College. But he has no
recollection of any incident at Wellington such as it suggested,
and the name Everitt introduced in the script has no association
for him.
(3) I have grouped together two references in the script
(on July 8th and Nov. 25th, 1901), though I am not sure that
they are intended to describe the same incident. Remarks
about a talk "in the cloisters"2 in the script of July 8, 1901
seem to be definitely attributed to Dr. Sidgwick, and to be
addressed to some one, almost certainly my husband. The
above, p. 160.
2 From the context evidently the cloisters at Trinity College,
Cambridge.
278 Chapter XII. [PART
second script (Nov. 25, 1901) is confused. After allusions to
Mr. F. M. Balfour, and to a basket associated elsewhere with
Dr. Sidgwick,1 it refers to a talk between some one and
my husband in the College Court, as described on July 8th,
1901, but there is no means of determining with precision who
is supposed to be the speaker on this occasion.
My husband has no special recollection of such talks as are
described, and in the absence of further information the allusion
in the script must be looked upon as unverified.2
(4) Four attempts were made to produce identifiable matter
in connexion with a basket containing fruit. The incident
was first introduced on July 17th, 1901, when, after reproaching
me for not writing on July 15th, as, on June 30th, I had
been instructed to do, the scribe produced remarks about a
basket with fruit in it, and attempted to describe a room by
the seaside at a place which was either Margate or Ramsgate.
The whole story was unmistakeably connected with Dr.
Sidgwick, the script terminating with various attempts at
names, among which his occurred. Later (Dec. 10th, 1901)
Margate was given as the name, and the incident was connected
with Mr. Myers, and a visit of his to Margate.
It was a fact within my knowledge that Mr. Myers had
visited Dr. Sidgwick at Margate on July 7th-9th, 1900. The
description of the room is not applicable to the rooms at Margate.
Fruit had been sent, but Mrs. Sidgwick has no special re
collection of a basket of grapes.
There is no evidential value, therefore, in this incident.
(5) Another group of allusions remains completely un
identified. On three occasions in the early days of the script
attempts were made to describe a place, apparently a river,
represented in Latin, the ordinary language of the script at
that date, by " Dovinans." The banks of the " Dovinans " are
1 See next incident, No. 4.
2 See, however, a letter, in May, 1900, from Dr. Sidgwick to Sir G. 0.
Trevelyan, quoted in the recently published Memoir of Henry Sidgwick,
p. 589, where the language closely resembles that of the script of
July 8, 1901. The Memoir was not published till after I had written
the present chapter.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 279
mentioned on March 31st, April 8th, and May 1st, 1901.
On two subsequent occasions allusions appear to some word
beginning Dover (May 8th, 1901, March 19th, 1902), and
once (April 2nd, 1903) is a reference to the banks of some
thing called Douern ; on this last occasion there is said to
be a cross on steps, with a wreath upon it, on the banks
of the Douern, and somewhat illegible initials are given, the
first being A, the second probably J, and the third C.1 On
May 23rd, 1901, occurs the phrase, "Dominans in ripa stetit
hagiologus " ; 2 but it is quite likely that " dominans in ripa "
is a reminiscence of "Dovinantis in ripa," especially as this
passage purports to be signed by the same signatory.
Nothing has been discovered that throws any light upon the
name Dovinans ; it occurs only in the earliest script, which is
usually fragmentary and unintelligible.
(6) On three successive occasions in the summer of 1901 there
were references to a play which I was to identify if possible.
The description was not very definite,3 but clearly the reference
was to a MS. play connected with children and dating from a
long time back. The supposed communicator was not named,
but was plainly indicated as Dr. Sidgwick.
As the script had said that "she" would know, I asked
Mrs. Sidgwick on my return to England whether she knew
anything about such a play and she then told me that recently
in sorting some papers, she had come across a MS. play4 written
and performed by children. I have now seen the play ; in
one or two points it corresponds to the description ; the
sheets for instance, are square and the paper white ; the writing
is crabbed and there are other childish papers with it. But
there are not twenty or thirty sheets,6 the writing is not very
1 See, however, later, p. 335, for a discussion of this incident,
which seems to have been verified since this chapter was written.
2 Trans. " Dominant on the bank stood the legend-writer."
3 The three passages are given in App., p. 416.
4 The play was written in 1856 by some children among whom
was the sister of Mr. Jermyn Cowell, a friend of Dr. Sidgwick's,
to whom the MS. doubtless came among other papers on Mr.
Cowell's death in 1867.
5 There are 18 sheets, i.e. 36 pages.
280 Chapter XII. [PART
close and in some pages there is a margin on the right. The
play, moreover, is quite complete and contains nothing repre
senting the attempts at names in the script. The only note
worthy point is that about the time when Mrs. Sidgwick
came across a childish play in MS. there was in my script a
reference to such a play sufficiently connected in the script
with Dr. Sidgwick to induce me to apply to her for
information.
(7) There have been throughout the script constant refer
ences to a garden, but they are not definite enough for veri
fication. The earlier allusions, mostly in the fragmentary and
unintelligible Latin of the first few months of the script,
suggest that something is contained in the writer's garden,
" the dewy garden where I used to set my feet," but the
" treasures hidden in the garden " remain undiscovered.
(8) In three passages of- the script and in three only occur
three small letters xx x in juxtaposition and these same extracts
contain the word glyptatus. It is probable that the three
passages are somehow connected. The first two, on March 14th
and April 8th, 1901, are untranslatable though not altogether
meaningless, at least in suggestion. Both refer to a hiero-
glyphema, whatever that may be, probably an inscription, as
in the first case1 there are allusions to carved marble and a
knife, and in the second case the word inscription is actually
used, though there the hieroglyphema seems to be a puzzle
as well as an inscription.
On the third occasion (Aug. 28, 1901) there is no doubt
at all that the script refers to a circular inscription, cut on
stone. The script speaks of a dial or font and there is a
rough drawing which might represent either of these objects.
A phrase earlier in the same script : " I speak with the
tongue of brass—hard to move" seems to indicate a sun
dial. Reference was made to my husband on this occasion2
and also on April 8th, but not on March 14th. Both March
14th and April 8th contained allusions to the same personal
friend of ours, H.
!See App., p. 417.
2Thia was one of the attempts to guess nov6ir<ab.ov « <«2.
LIU.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 281
When my husband saw the writing of August 28th he
pointed out the references to a sundial, which I had not
observed, and suggested that the three x x x were intended
as some sort of clue. We then looked through the preced
ing script and found that this same sign had occurred, as
above noted, on two other occasions, in both of which there
were references to some sort of cut inscription. It seemed
therefore that these three bits of writing represented successive
attempts to say something about a sundial with an inscrip
tion upon it. This aroused no recollection in my mind, but
my husband had vague reminiscences connected with an in
scribed sundial. They may be summed up as follows :
(1) It is certain that H. once asked my husband to com
pose a Latin inscription for a friend of his.
(2) My husband's first recollection was that the object to be
inscribed was a sundial, but on second thoughts he thought
it was a mantelpiece.
(3) At a later date he believes that Mr. G. Monkton, an
acquaintance of ours, consulted him about an inscription and in
so doing referred to his having already had some similar
service from my husband through H.
I distinctly remember a correspondence between my husband
and Mr. G. Monkton about an inscription, but I had no
idea that H. had any connexion with the episode, nor do
I recollect what was the object to be inscribed, though
my impression is that it was a mantelpiece. The general
outcome of these recollections is that there were two occasions
on which my husband composed or criticised a Latin inscrip
tion:
(a) For a friend of H., unnamed at the time, and subsequently
found to be Mr. G. Moukton.
(6) For Mr. G. Monkton at his own request.
I certainly knew of the second and may, I suppose, have
known of the first. But I can recall nothing of it.
The description in the script is not very detailed nor par
ticularly clear, but it seems to have recalled something to my
husband. Some six weeks later the script accepted our
interpretation of these passages in the words : " You have
282 Chapter XII. [PART
understood the sundial at last " (October 6th, 1901), and since
then- there has been no further reference to the subject.
(9) In the winter of 1901-2 great efforts were made to
convey to Dr. Hodgson a word or words. The incident has no
special value, but as it is a characteristic illustration of the
style of the script I relate it in detail. The passages bearing
on this subject are as follows :
(a) December 13th, 1901 (I give the whole of what was
written).
Non crepitat miltitidinis vox in auribus meis.* Hodgson knows
the words you will get them before long. Gignifer or gengane
yiwiQav or yevviafavrfs Gesneration. But there are two words. «5
yfwrjTol ol yevviafavrfs some such phrase—a paradox, a denial,
a statement, all those at once—evy«veis ol dyeveis No it was better
before but that is the idea—a pair of contradictory words and g
is an important sound.
s—no not that, you can't do it. Goodnight Tuus.
(5) December 19th, 1901 (at the end of a piece of writing).
Gennesarion
Gennsaret
Genos—agenes
Faithless generation
Is it German—genossen—no it has more form.
yevea.
yevva, TO yiyvopevov
That is all I can do.
You understand better tonight. Go on.
(c) December 21st, 1901.
Do not forget the word it is gens togata and another short
word, gens togata dedit t lite dedit but not that sense.
(d) January 4th, 1902.
Late but not last. Tell Hodgson the words in gen—that is
nearly right yewijo-is is important not Genesis—and not Exodus
but e£<j>Sos—perhaps he will understand that you will not.
* Trans. " The voice of the crowd (!) does not sound in my ears."
t Trans. " The toga-clad race gave."
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 283
(e) January 13th, 1902.
Three Latin words can she not write them ? would give the
clue—Quid fremuerunt gentes? gentes seems right—gens togata
rapit. Non possum plurima hodie cras meri meliora supersunt.*
(/) January 29th, 1902.
gentile no gentes gens togata vocat. Romam—Romanam condere
gentem.t
(ff) February 10th, 1902.
You will hear from Dr. Hodgson but he does not understand
those words—I wanted him to have them.
In January, 1902, I sent the first five extracts to Dr.
Hodgson ; they conveyed absolutely nothing to me. I did not
receive his answer till February 13th, three days after the
last of the above quoted writings. He wrote that the " words
in gen " recalled to him a dim reminiscence of a quotation,
containing the word yevea-Oai, in which he had once been
interested. But he could not recall the sentence and no
further information on the subject has been received.
(10) On October 12th, 190], after a long and confused piece
of writing, signed and so apparently terminated, came the
addition :
Give it to her—yarn a tangled skein. Veridical is the case—
see what you have said. •
On the afternoon of the next day, October 13th, Mrs. Sidg-
wick brought to me a letter from Mr. Piddington enclosing an
account from a Cambridge correspondent of an apparently
veridical dream. Mr. Piddington had written on October llth
to Mrs. Sidgwick suggesting that she or I should investigate
the case, so that before the remark of my script both Mr.
Piddington and Mrs. Sidgwick had thought of me as a pos
sible investigator.
The case was investigated by me, and appeared to be veri
dical. It was printed in the S.P.R. Journal, July, 1902.
* Trans. "Why do the heathen so furiously rage? (Ps. n.) . . .
the toga-clad race carries off. I cannot do more to-day better
things are left (?) for to-morrow."
t Trans. "To found the Roman race." Virgil, Am. VI. 133.
284 Chapter XII. [PART
(11) On May 27th, 1901, I had a curious sensation early
iu the morning, which I noted at the time as follows : " Ma}'
27th, 10.15 a.m., I am impelled to note that for the last
quarter of an hour or so I have been filled with a growing
sense of expectancy and subdued excitement, as if something
were ' going to happen.' It has reached such a point that I
must make a note. I don't connect it with anything or any
body, but I am actually a little breathless,—though I have
been sitting still for half an hour, reading proofs. It is Bank
holiday, and the paper has come long ago, so there is no
post or ring at the bell to be expected. I have no desire to
write automatically."
Later in the morning I went out, and on my return had a
sudden impulse to write. I began at 12.40 p.m. but was in
terrupted for a moment, and resumed at 12.50, ending at 1.
After a word or two of nonsense, and, in Latin,1 a statement
about the difficulty of writing, even when great care was used,
the frequency of mistake, and the greater facility, when I
was taken unawares, the script went on, after telling me to
note the time, to describe a fire. The points mentioned were
the burning and destruction of a house—the absence of the
master—the destruction of pictures—the black smoke, strong
smell, and crackling of flames—the considerable and noteworthy
damage—the presence of excited inhabitants—the hindrance
caused by the wind—the arrival at last of a fire engine
drawn by horses amid the shouts of a crowd—the licking
and flickering of the flames and their extinction in smoke
—the subsequent lamentation " not accompanied by groans
and tears." It was then stated that the occurrence was
recent, and that if I noted it at once its truth would be
manifest.
In the Times of the next morning, May 28th, I found a
short paragraph as follows : " A fire occurred yesterday at the
Lady Artists' Club, Blythswood Square, Glasgow. Before the
flames were extinguished over 60 oil and water colour pic
tures on exhibition in the salon were destroyed." Subsequent
1 The original Latin is given in App., p. 418. It presents some
points of linguistic interest which have been commented on above,
p. 44.
LIU.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 285
enquiries ! showed that the fire occurred in the early morning
of May 27th, the summons to the fire-brigade being at 1.20 a.m.
Considerable damage was done by fire to the premises,
and the pictures were almost wholly destroyed by the heat.
The loss was estimated at about £1500.
It would appear that, at least towards the end, the account
in the script shows a certain picturesque exaggeration of
detail. There was no lamentation, no shouting crowd, no
disturbing wind. A more serious inaccuracy is contained in
the words dominus absens, "the master was not there." As
will be seen, the premises being a Club, there was no master
at all, and no responsible person was, as a fact, absent at the
time. On the other hand, the fire was extinguished by a fire
engine drawn by horses, and the destruction of pictures is a,n
important point in common between the description and the
fact. To ascertain whether it is common to read of destruc
tion of pictures by fire, I looked carefully at the notices of
fires in the Times during the rest of the year, and only found
one other case, in December, where mention was made of the
destruction by fire of pictures.
Whether or not there is a connexion between the fire at
Glasgow at 1.20 a.m. and the record of a recent fire in my
script eleven hours later, there is, I am inclined to think, a
connexion between my script and the unusual sensation of
subdued excitement which preceded it by about three hours.
It is probable that the first impression—however produced—
of a fire reached my consciousness about 10 a.m., but was not
definite enough to emerge till later in the morning.
(12) On December 7th, 1903, in the train on my way back
from London, where I had spent the day, about 11 p.m. the
script wrote :
The letter is at your house that explains. good guid
ance.2 and the waters of Omar.
There was no letter for me at home, but the first post next
morning brought me a letter from my friend Mrs. Leaf
1 Sir Oliver Lodge, with whom I communicated, wrote to the
secretary of the Club for information about details not contained
in a paragraph from the Glasgow Herald of May 28th.
2 The spacing represents larger writing in the original.
286 Chapter XII. [PART
wishing me a good journey, and enclosing me a pocket edition
of Omar Khayyam, the first copy of that work which I have
ever possessed. We were to start for Algeria on December
llth, and letters of good wishes for the journey might be
expected. But the introduction of the word "Omar" in con
nexion with a letter of good wishes seems remarkable. What
is meant by " the waters " of Omar I do not know ; the object
of our journey was for my husband to take the waters of
Rammam R'Hira, and it is possible that this has introduced
confusion.
(13) About a year after the script began—in January,
1902—I read a book that had recently appeared, Life
and Letters in the Fourth Century, and in the chapter on
Macrobius were some points which reminded me of parts of
my script. I noted these at the time, but I made no further
acquaintance with Macrobius till the spring of 1903, when the
appearance in the script of allusions, as it seemed, to Neo-
Platonic theories, induced me to read for the first time several
of the later Platonists, among others Macrobius. On reading
Macrobius I found some further traces of apparent connexion
with rny script, and I here group together all the indications
of such connexion. In some cases the phrases in the script
may easily he traced to other sources, but as bearing on the
general question of connexion between Macrobius or other
Neo-Platonists and the script, it seems better to place them
together for comment.
(a) Macrobius' longest work is called the Saturnalia, and
represents a supposed conversation on things in general
between friends assembled during that festival. Catullus'
phrase for the Saturnalia, ' optima dierum,' is naturally enough
quoted by Macrobius.1 The same phrase occurs twice in my
script.2 The question of what is there intended has been dis
cussed above. The phrase, in any case, probably has its origin
in the familiar passage of Catullus.
(6) On May 3rd, 1901, the script uses the phrase crastino
die, and on May 31st, 1901, it speaks of deferring in cras-
tinum diem. On October 17th, 1901, it shows some uncertainty
1Sat. II. 1. 8. 2 March 15th, April 3rd, 1901, see p. 50.
Lin.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 287
as to the phraseology used, and speaks of telling more eras
vel crastino die. The doubt as to the best phrase to use for
" to-morrow " amused me when I saw it, but recalled nothing.
Macrobius discusses at some length1 the question whether the
phrase die crastini is justifiable, or whether the more regular
die crastino is not preferable. Though the disputed linguistic
point is not quite the same in the script and in Macrobius,
there is a close analogy between them. I know no other
place where the phrase is discussed, and, as such discussions
do not interest my normal self, I have no explanation to give
for their occurrence in the script.
(c) Several of the quotations from Virgil in the script are
also quoted by Macrobius. But his quotations from Virgil
are so numerous that the coincidence goes for little or
nothing, especially as the quotations common to both are very
familiar.
(dlj) On October 12th, 1904, in an imaginary journey to
the Abode of the Blest, the script says that the " way must
be sought for thrice and four times," ter et quater renovare
viam. Seven is of course a mystic number, but I had no
associations with the division of it into three and four. Virgil
(jEneid I. 94) has the phrase terque quaterque beati, " thrice
and four times blest," applied to those who have not lived to
see the destruction of Troy, and the words in the script may
be due to a reminiscence of that passage or some other similar
use of the words. But Macrobius quotes the Virgilian phrase
to illustrate his contention that Virgil was deeply learned
in ritual and mystic lore,2 and supposes it to describe the
happiness of the Blest. The numbers three and four and
their resulting conjunction into seven have a special significance
in the Pythagorean system—a system intimately connected
with later Neo-Platonic symbolism. The importance of the
Pythagorean Siarecrcrdpiav is insisted upon in the same passage
of Macrobius. I knew nothing of the Pythagorean Diatessaron,
and could see no possible meaning for a phrase in my script of
December 19th, 1902, "the new and old Diatessaron," till I read
1Sat. I. 4.
2"Nullius disciplinae expers plene et per omnia beatos exprimere
volens." Macr. Comm. in Somn. Scip. I. 6. 44. See also above, p. 131.
288 Chapter XII. [PAST
the passage in Macrobius early in 1905.1 The only application
that I could find for the word Diatessaron was to the com
bined narrative of the four Gospels, but that did not explain
the double reference ("new and old"), which became intelligible
only when I learnt that there was a Pythagorean as well
as a Christian Diatessaron.
(e) The script's habit of punning described above finds its
analogy in Macrobius, but is common enough in other classical
writers, and especially among the Neo-Platonists. Once, how
ever, the same unscientific and fanciful connexion between two
unconnected words appears both in Macrobius and the script.
Macrobius 2 connects Apollo's epithet, Delphian, with a supposed
old Greek word <5eX$o? meaning " one," and goes on to say that
hence too comes the word aSe\<j>6s "brother," as meaning "not
one." The script connects together the words a<5eA0o? " brother,"
and <5eX0iKo'j " Delphian " in the phrase a§e\<j>os Se\<piKrj o/u.<ptl
XpfoeTai, and makes quite clear that the reference is to the
Delphian Apollo by going on to suggest that by attention and
the dismissal of one's own imagination one may arrive at an
interpretation of the truth of God.3
(/) Another allusion to Macrobius perhaps occurs on April
27th, 1901, when the script wrote as follows: "Commensal in
nitidillo cecinit carmen irrefragabile scientiae. nonne audis 1
ausculta aures adhibeto iam pooemium incipit. Fac, Die, faceto
dicto. nomen nescis—sed non semper sic erit." The actual
words are obscure and not easily translatable, but the general
sense is plain. Some one somewhere has repeated " an irre
futable formula of wisdom " ; if I do not hear I am to listen
and attend, for the prelude (?) begins at once. Then follow the
words Fac Die faceto dicto, intended apparently for a pun on
the word faceto.
The same combination of words is found in Macrobius. He
is explaining that the ancients called seemly jests "dicta"
1 The text of Macrobius was in my possession, and had been
referred to, though not read, before the script of October 12th, 1904,
so that I may have seen, without remembering, his comment on the
Virgilian phrase terque quaterque. But the allusion in the script to
the "Diatessaron" occurred some months before I had any oppor
tunity of acquaintance with Macrobius.
2 Sat. I. 17. 65. 3See above, p. 57.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 289
(sayings), and quotes as his authority Cicero,1 who writes
that whereas everything that we say is a 'saying,' the word
is especially used for things which are said with humour, brevity,
and wit, quae facete et breviter et acute locuti essemus, ea
proprio nomine appettari dicta voluerunt.
Here then the script and Macrobius seemed to have hit
upon the same combination. The script was obtained on
April 27th, 1901,2 when I knew nothing of Macrobius. It
was only in February, 1905, that., in the course of a careful
reading of the whole of Macrobius, I came across the passage
in question.
(g) On April 20th, 1901, the script attaches some importance
to the solstice,3 which, it says, is to be awaited. There is
a more definite reference on June 23rd, 1901. I note the
allusions, as they may be a reflexion on the general interest
in the solstice felt by the Neo-Platonists. In that case they
may be closely connected with the incident next to be narrated.
(h) The explanation of a phrase in the script of April 22nd,
1901, is perhaps to be found rather in Neo-Platonic philosophy
in general than in Macrobius in particular. The phrase is
" Cardo KapKivov," and after these mysterious words the script
goes on to say that if this is not possible, another4 is to be
tried and hope not abandoned. The two words had no
meaning or connexion as far as I could see. Cardo means a
hinge, and is also used of the four cardinal points ; icdpKivos
means a crab. But I learn to my surprise from Macrobius and
other writers that the phrase has a traditional meaning, so
that the combination is intelligible and probably not accidental.
Basing his views on the Platonic myth at the end of the
Republic, Porphyry,6 in his allegorical interpretation of Homer,
1 Cic. 24 fragm. Ed. Orelli, p. 968. I have never read or looked
at any collection of Cicero's fragments. Macr. Sat. II. 1. 14.
2 It was sent with other script to Sir Oliver Lodge in December,
1902.
8 On April 20th the phrase used is TPOTTO.S ijeXi'oio; on June 23rd
the phrase is solsituo (sic) die.
4 Possibly "another way"—the Latin leaves the meaning uncertain.
See App., p. 418.
*De Antr. N. 21.
T
290 Chapter XII. [PART
says that the cave which is the abode of souls has two entrances,
north and south, at the cardinal points in Cancer and Capricorn,
the extreme points, that is, of the ecliptic. The northern gate
is the one by which the souls enter in their descent to earth.1
The words used for the gates by Porphyry are a/cpa and Trv\ai,
and the northern gate is called 6 KapKivos and KOTO. Kapicivov.
Cardo is not used in the singular for a door, but it is used for
one of the cardinal points (aicpov), so that the phrase Cardo
canceris would naturally represent the north point on the
ecliptic, in the sign of Cancer the Crab, which served for the
entrance gate of the descending souls. KdpKivos is precisely
equivalent to cancer, so that the phrase "Cardo KapKivov"
though combining two languages and not occurring anywhere
in the classics, is perfectly intelligible. But it was not
intelligible to me at the time of writing nor for some years
later.
(i) It is possible to see in the description2 on January 20th,
1903, some connexion with the Cave of the Nymphs, as
allegorically interpreted by Porphyry from Homer's account in
Odyssey, XIII. 97.
The scribe appeared to think the description veridical, but it
recalled nothing to me. Some six weeks later, however, having
occasion to consult a Biographical Dictionary for the life of
Porphyry, who was little more than a name to me, I found
there an -account of his allegory of the Cave of the Nymphs
which seemed to have some points in common with my script,
and I then read Porphyry's work for the first time. Porphyry's
Cave is inhabited by Naiads—water-nymphs—representing the
souls that are to be born. In the script, Nereids, also water-
nymphs, inhabit what is obviously intended for an Abode of
the Blest. In Porphyry's narrative mystical importance is
attached to an olive-tree, and a similar suggestion seems to be
!The same ideas appear in Macrobius (Comm. I. 12. 1-3), Apuleius,
and elsewhere, and seem to have been common among the Neo-
Platonists.
2 See above, p. 112, for comment on the series of which this script
forms part. The point here raised is whether any connexion is to
be traced between this description on Jan. 20, 1903, and Porphyry's
Allegory, then unknown to me.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 291
made in the script, though the "great tree" mentioned there
is not defined.
The Homeric description on which Porphyry's allegory is
based contains the olive-tree and the water-nymphs, but is
wholly without mystical suggestion, and presents no analogy
with the script. The connexion between Porphyry's Allegory
and the script cannot be regarded as established, but there
is no doubt that the account in the script suggests certain
analogies with Neo-Platonic or Orphic descriptions of Abodes
of the Blest. On March 7th, 1903, immediately after my
finding in the Biographical Dictionary a short account of
Porphyry's allegory, and before I read the original, the script
wrote as follows :
Iliaco carmine responsum dedi illi quod semper postulas—
mentionem iam ante feci huius loci—cur non invenire potes ?
d/cri) Kvaveri—mare glaucum spumantibus equis insuper deus vehitur—
nihilo magis rota magistri tempus in partes aequas dividit.
prime splendidior, postremo multisonans voce angelica, postea autem
votjTip re Kal voipu> magis uteris. Num credibilius illud, o
numquam mihi fidem praebens ! Temptanti difficilia, manum atten-
dere debeas—manum amicam usque ad oram ilium. I/VKTC/TOS 1jSrj
6Sds. *
Obviously, and naturally enough, the script alludes to the
discovery which I had made that day, but the allusions are
certainly not such as would have been produced by my
normal self. Homer's Cave of the Nymphs is described not
in the Iliad but in the Odyssey. This was known to me, and
had been recalled by the statement in the book of reference.
In this point then the script showed ignorance of what
was familiar to me. But two other points appear to show
* Trans. " In the Ilian (?) poem I have given the answer to that
which you constantly ask. I have already before this made mention
of this place (or passage?)—why can you not find it? Sea-blue coast—
over the blue sea on his foaming horses the god is drawn. None
the more the wheel of the master divides time into equal parts. At
first he is more glorious, at last many sounding with angel voice, but
finally you will make more use of the intellectual and mental. Is this
more easy of belief, O you who never give me trust ? To one
attempting difficulties you ought to extend (?) a hand, a friendly
hand up to that distant shore. The way is now darkened."
292 Chapter XII. [PART
knowledge beyond what I possessed. The word i/oe/oo'? (mental)
was quite unfamiliar to me, but when later I read Porphyry I
found that the word was common in his vocabulary. Further,
the introduction of the mysterious " wheel of the master "
dividing time, conveyed no association or suggestion to me
till, a year or two later, I read an account of a series of
inscribed Orphic tablets found in Lower Italy.1 I then found,
what I certainly did not know before, that the wheel is of
great importance in Orphic ritual. In the allusions to the
Abode of the Blest in these Orphic tablets there appear
water-nymphs and springs, a tall cypress tree, and a wheel.
I have found no parallel to the phrase " wheel of the master,"
the Orphic prayers being addressed to the Mistress of the
Underworld.2 The allusion in the .script, it is true, lacks
precision, but the correspondence in phraseology and idea
between these Orphic descriptions and my script surprises
and puzzles. At the time they were produced I was com
pletely unacquainted with the later Greek philosophers and
mystics. My knowledge was confined to the allusions in
Mr. Myers' Essay on the Greek Oracles,3 but there is
nothing whatever in that suggestive of these fanciful accounts
of abodes of the Blest. I have never investigated this
or any kindred subject, or taken any interest in Greek
mysticism. There was no text of Plotinus, Porphyry, larnbli-
chus, or any writer on similar subjects in our house, till I
was induced to read such authors by the allusions in my
script. Miss Harrison was in Italy examining the Orphic
tablets in March and April, 1903, and after her return to
Cambridge I probably heard something of their contents,
though my conscious knowledge of them dates only from the
publication of her book in the autumn of 1903. Nor have
I been able to find in such classical authors as I have read
anything about the underworld which would have suggested the
sort of symbolism which appears in the script.
1 Prolegomena to the Study of Greek Religion, by Miss J. E.
Harrison, p. 573 and foil., especially pp. 589-593.
2 Afo-iroiva., -^Qovia. /Sacri'Aeia. See App. p. 431, for further account
of allusions in the script to a wheel.
3 Essays : Classical and Modern, Vol. I.
LIU.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 293
(j) On March 20th, 1903, the script gave what looks like
a direction for writing, viz. that success was not to be
expected with an East wind but with a Westerly breeze.
Never when the wind blows from out of the East but
on the Western breeze it comes with sound of bells and music
heard afar. Ask about this.
The last phrase suggested that the statement was verifiable,
but it was not obvious where the corroboration was to be
found. It was not till later that my reading of Neo-Platonic
writers showed me that it was a regular instruction of the
thaumaturgists to persons wishing to attain mystical communion
to make their efforts only when the wind was from the West.
I cannot conceive why my script should agree with them.
(14) Two hills in Rome have been mentioned by name in
the script. On July 30th, 1901, I was told that the Caelian
hill had already appeared in the script before this date, and
that this was to be noted. Apparently I had "it not quite
right." I could find no earlier reference to the Caelian hill,
but in January, 1906, when writing this paper, I found that
a part of the Caelian hill was differently named, as Caeliolus,
by Varro, Gaeliculus, by Cicero.1 In the script of April 24th,
1901, in the midst of an unintelligible2 passage came the
words, Gaeliculosua vel alium non dissimile, and then a
reproach for sticking over the words. The sentence quoted
is not translatable as it stands, and contains a false concord,
alium being masculine and dissimile neuter. It however
suggests that a word not unlike Caeliculosus is intended, and
this might well be Caeliculus. I find no other word with
which it is possible to connect it. It seems therefore as if
this script of April 24th, 1901, might contain the earlier re
ference to the Caelian hill spoken of on July 30th, 1901.
The other Roman hill mentioned is not one of the famous
seven hills, but a small eminence known as Monte Citorio.
On April 20th and again on June 3rd, 1901, the script
mentions this hill, each time in connexion with a vulture.
On both occasions there are other mysterious allusions, and
1 Varro, L. L., IV. Cicero ; De Ear. Eesp. XV.
2 See App., p. 419, where all references to 'hills' are printed.
294 Chapter XII. [PART
on June 3rd it is boldly asserted that the hill is holy and a
great help to me. The name suggested nothing whatever to
me, but I found—and I knew this before the second reference—
that Monte Citorio1 is an artificial modern hill in Rome
believed to be made from the debris of the Temple of Marcus
Aurelius. So far as I know the name was new to me when
it occurred in the script of April 20th, 1901, and it certainly
conveyed no association of any sort.
In January, 1906, I found that the only two hills in Rome
mentioned in the script had a link of association in the same
Roman Emperor, for Marcus Aurelius2 was, it appears, born in
a house on the Caelian3 hill.
(15) An allusion to Columella was contained in the script
of July 3rd, 1904, which attempted to produce a prophecy
for subsequent fulfilment. The prophecy is subsequently dis
cussed ; 4 here I deal only with the reference to Columella.
The whole passage is quoted in the Appendix.6 The relevant
parts are these :
In September remember the 19th Columella. It is then the
fulfilment will be, the event has already been foretold. Then
Astraea Redux and the rest of it—
Columella was a name to me and only a name. I found
that he was a writer on agriculture, and in his eleventh book
he gives a calendar containing astronomical as well as other
information. Not every day is mentioned ; the entries are
!For Monte Citorio see Middleton, Remains of Ancient Rome,
Vol. II., pp. 78 and 209. In describing the Temple and column of
M. Aurelius—which I did not see when I was in Rome for a fortnight
in 1891—Middleton writes: "Near these remains in the Dogana is
a slight elevation called Monte Citorio," etc. The word Dogana
without any context occurs in my script of July 4th, 1901, and
perhaps suggests that I had read the passage in Prof. Middleton's
book.
2 I am familiar with the writings of Marcus Aurelius, but my Greek
text contains no biographical notes. I only ascertained the place of
his birth in looking up references to the Caelian hill for the purpose
of this paper.
3 See Burn's Rome and the Compagna, p. 224, where the original
authorities are quoted.
* See p. 327. 5See App., p. 419.
Lin.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 295
about one in three or four days. On September 19th he states
that the sun leaves Virgo for Libra. An alternative name
for Virgo is Astraea. I do not understand how my script came
to make this combination of Astraea and September 19th, and
to refer to Columella, who explains it. There is no other
reference to Astraea nor to Columella iu the script.
(16) In the last few months of 1903 1 there were repeated
•efforts in the script to give something described as a message
from Dr. Sidgwick. After alluding to a sealed envelope,
apparently of Dr. Sidgwick's, the scribe wrote on September
22nd, 1903, that before this envelope was opened another mes
sage ought to be given correctly. This other message was stated
to be from " Henry Sidgwick " ; it is not so certain to whom
the envelope was said to have belonged. On October 7th
it was stated that " Henry Sidgwick's message " was about three
letters kept together, and further descriptions, not very definite,
of the letters were given. Mr. Piddington was to be told to ask
Mrs. Thompson about these envelopes.2 On October 8tb, before
I had heard the result of these enquiries, some further points
were added to the description of the letters, in particular the
date June, 1872 (perhaps June 9th), but it was said that Mrs.
Thompson knew nothing of them.
On October 10th further attempts were made to give the
contents of a letter of June 9th, 1872,3 and it was also suggested
that I should ask Mrs. Sidgwick to gi,ve me a question about
Dr. Sidgwick to which she knew the answer and I did not.
This question I was to put "at the first chance." It was
stated that the message was not yet correctly understood.
Another reference to the letters on October 12th was followed
by the words in large writing:
It was arranged that he should refer to these
three letters
but it does not appear who was to refer to them.
iSee App., p. 419. 2See p. 202.
3 On October 4th, 1903, there had been a description of a pocket
"book containing a photograph and a paper on which was the date
June, 1872, and some words of which the general drift was
given. Whether this is supposed to belong to the three letters I
,cannot say.
296 Chapter XII. [PART
On December 25th, after saying that Sidgwick's message
was not clear, the script went on to state that Mrs. Sidgwick
would know about the three letters, and on the next day,
December 26th, it repeated this remark. On January 1st,
1904, it suggested that a diary was connected with the letters,
and on January 29th it apparently corrected earlier statements
in the words:
The letters are kept by someone—those we told of—you have
not asked the right person.
On February 7th, 1904, I heard from Mrs Sidgwick, to whom I
had written, that she could make nothing of the remarks
about the supposed three letters. The only correct statements
in the above attempts seem to be negative and valueless, viz. :
that Mrs. Thompson did not know the letters, and again, that I
had not asked the right person. The other statements if not
incorrect are at least unverified and unverifiable.
(17) In the spring of 1904 two attempts 1 were made to describe
a small book. On the first occasion, April 27th, 1904, it
was not clear to whom the book was supposed to belong ;
an allusion to Faith, Hope, and Charity,-2 suggested that Dr.
Sidgwick was supposed to be concerned. On May llth the
reference to Dr. Sidgwick is plain, as several sentences in the
script referring to the book are in a handwriting resembling
his.3 This book, if opened at a particular place, is said ta
contain the words wanted in answer,—obviously, that is, in
answer to the question suggested by Mrs. Sidgwick, which I
was to put and did put as a preliminary test. The question
was one to which the answer might very well be contained
in a quotation from a book. It was to find "the last of Dr.
Sidgwick's texts." The script suggests that the text required
is or is closely connected with the text in 1 Corinthians xiii.
13. It refers to a passage in the De Imitatione concerning-
Love, and concludes with the statement, clearly intended as an
answer to Mrs. Sidgwick's question, that the text alluded to
was the last, that there were three in all, and that one was a
verse from Coriolanus.
!See App., p. 421. 2See below, No. 18.
3 For the circumstances under which this writing was produced
see above, p. 26.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 297
So far as I have been able to ascertain, there is no truth
in any of these statements. The text in question is not
1 Corinthians xiii. 13, and the book has not been identified.1
(18) Closely connected with the last two episodes, and cer
tainly associated with Dr. Sidgwick, are a series of references2
to Faith, Hope and Charity,3 in which special value is attached
to the virtue of Hope. It is not clear from the script what is
the intention of these passages, and it is possible that they aim
at describing the contents of a sealed envelope left by Dr. Sidg
wick. Again, it is possible that their origin is to be found in
the guessing of the subliminal self, started by the suggestion*
that a text was wanted. This I heard from Mrs. Sidgwick on
October 18th, 1903, and on October 19th the script had the first
of a long series of allusions to Faith, Hope, and Charity, and
their comparative merits.
Three of the nine references to Hope are in fragmentary
English verse, and of these the second deserves notice among
comments on possibly verifiable matter contained in the script.
On December 25th, 1903, the scribe stated that "on the 17th
of next month" I was to "ask the question," and a reference,
closely following, to " Sidgwick's message " made it clear that
the question meant was the one about " the last of Dr. Sidg
wick's texts " suggested to me by Mrs. Sidgwick two months
before. On January 17th, 1904, remarks about S, a letter, an
envelope, a seal, and the words " not without hope," were
followed by the statement "The question is now answered,"
and later, by the following :
The text [or test] and the answer are one and are given—Hope—
youngest daughter of to-day, and oldest mother of the race.
To see the Godhead face to face, no Beholds the Godhead's very
face. Shine at the on the Wanderer on the Way—-That is not quite
1 Five texts representing the keynote at different periods of Dr.
Sidgwick's thoughts about his own life are given in the Memoir, by
A. S. and E. M. S., published in March, 1906, p. 125.
2 See App., p. 421.
3 For the combination of Wonder's daughter, Wisdom, with Faith,
Hope, and Charity and the allusions, certainly to the Theaetetus.
and apparently to the Logia, see above, p. 52.
4 See preceding incident, No. 17.
298 Chapter XII. [PART
right but it is about Hope's vision which is the true one, &
leads on the Passionate Pilgrim.
As noted above,1 the allusions to the Wanderer on the Way,
the Passionate Pilgrim, and Hope's vision were unintelligible to
me, and it was not till some two years afterwards that I found
a possible connexion between them in Browning's poem of La
Saisiaz. To the best of my recollection I had not read this
poem till my attention was attracted to it by a reference in a
letter of Dr. Sidgwick's which I read in the Memoir, immedi
ately after its publication in March, 1906. In that letter2 Dr.
Sidgwick, writing of " the great question of Immortality,"
,expresses his agreement with the line of thought "in which
Browning's poem on the subject (La Saisiaz) concludes. It is
that on moral grounds hope rather [than] certainty is fit for
us in this earthly existence."
Readers of the poem will remember the circumstances of its
production : after the sudden death of a friend, the poet takes
alone the walk which they had planned to take together, and
debating with himself the question of Immortality, concludes
as above described. Some expressions in the poem bear a
certain resemblance to phrases in the script—' my pilgrim-foot/
' the ways we walked together,' ' wander at will . . . wandering
still'—and the whole poem may not unfairly be described as
an account of the vision of hope which comes to the wanderer
,on a pilgrimage of affection.
The combination of a pilgrimage or wandering and a vision
of Hope in the script and in the poem may, in spite of my
impression to the contrary, be due to a latent knowledge of the
poem or of some notice of it. But the association of those ideas
with Dr. Sidgwick's name in what purports to be an attempt
to produce a verifiable "message" cannot be so explained. It
was impossible that I should have any normal knowledge of
the contents of a letter written in 1878 by Dr. Sidgwick to a
friend with whom I was not acquainted, and I certainly did not
see the proofs of the Memoir.
1 See above, p. 66, where I have left unaltered the note written in
1905, before any possible explanation had occurred to me.
2 Henry Sidgwick: a Memoir, p. 338.
Liu.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 299
(19) It was on February 10th, 1903, that the appearance
of Mr. Myers' book on Human Personality justified the state
ments in the script that a certain passage from the Sym
posium would be quoted in that book.1 Two days later, on
February 12th, the script began a series of allusions to a
locked box, to the position of the key of that box, and to
something sealed contained by the box. Between February
12th and April 17th there were seven references to this sub
ject. 2 They were fairly consistent, and represented that a
letter or envelope, sealed with a four-lettered inscription on
the seal, was kept in a locked box. The key of this box
was said to be in the locked drawer of a writing table. On
the first occasion, February 12th, Dr. Hodgson's name was
mentioned as likely to help; and he was indirectly referred to
on the last occasion, April 17th.
After some months' interval, on August 18th, 1903, another
reference was made to the box, and this time it was plainly
stated that before opening the box Dr. Hodgson must receive
a message about it, and that part of a word required, but not all,
had been sent to him. Attempts were made at the required
word. The script also stated plainly what had been suggested
on March 26th, that the " message inside " 3 was from the
Symposium, the passage known to me.
Putting, together the results of these eight references, I
supposed the script to be attempting to describe the contents
of a sealed envelope, that is, of an envelope left sealed for
posthumous reading. I wrote to Dr. Hodgson on August 24th,
telling him of the description of the box, and in his reply
(dated September 17th, 1903), he told me that he knew
nothing of any box like that described, and had no sealed
envelope left with him for posthumous reading.
A year later, however, two more references were made by
the script to a box said to contain a sealed envelope enclosed
in another envelope. On July 13th, 1904, it was stated clearly
that a sealed envelope left by Mr. Myers with Sir Oliver
1 See below, No. 24. 2 See App., p. 423.
3 i.e. inside the box. There being no reference on this occasion to
a seal or a double enclosure, the only possible meaning for " inside "
is inside the box described.
300 Chapter XII. [PART
Lodge, and containing a particular passage from the Symposium,
was kept in a box as described. This proved completely
untrue.1
On July loth, 1904,2 the script distinctly implied, if it did
not actually state, that Dr. Hodgson had a sealed envelope
for posthumous use. Referring to the opening of such an
envelope belonging to Sir Oliver Lodge, the scribe wrote that
it was important for Dr. Hodgson to see the box opened, but
that "his own envelope" might wait. It is to be remem
bered that at this time I myself knew that Dr. Hodgson had
no sealed envelope for posthumous use. This is a noticeable but
not a solitary case in which the statements of the script are not
guided by my conscious knowledge, but actually opposed to it.
(20) At the risk of repetition, I treat separately the attempts
to read the contents of a sealed envelope. There is some con
fusion, as the script appears to refer to more than one sealed
envelope. Thus on September 22nd, 1903,3 after speaking of a
message from Dr. Sidgwick, the script referred to an envelope
containing a drawing on one side of the paper and a word or
two on the other. Attempts made to represent the words were
recognised as unsuccessful; the drawing, called a curved line,
resembled a 2, and it was stated
21-y/*a stands for Sidgwick elsewhere,4 why not there too?
It was not said whose envelope was described, but the im
plication is plainly that it was Dr. Sidgwick's. No further
reference was made to the subject till on July 3rd, 1904, the
script wrote as follows, about the contents of an envelope, plainly
not the one referred to on September 22nd, 1 903 :
What is now wanted is a fulfilled prophecy to induce you to
open the envelope which contains the allusion to Plato, and the place
of Love in the scheme.
It then proceeded to try to make such a prophecy.6
!See below, No. 20. 2 Perhaps also on July 18. See p. 301.
3 See above, No. 16. Complete extracts are given in App., p. 425.
4 2 has been used as a signature by other members of the Sidgwick
family.
5 The question of the fulfilment of this prophecy is discussed
below, p. 327.
LIU.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 301
On July 13th, 1904, as above stated,1 it said plainly that the
envelope containing the passage from the Symposium had been
left by Mr. Myers with Sir Oliver Lodge. The description which
it proceeded to give of the appearance of the envelope was
too indefinite to be valuable. The envelope was said to
have been placed in another envelope, which was initialed
and dated, not by the writer, and the containing envelope
had been placed with other papers in a box. I knew that Sir
Oliver Lodge had sent his sealed envelope for custody to
a bank, so that there was nothing of evidential value in
this description. The same script referred also to the contents
of an envelope left by Dr. Sidgwick with Mrs. Sidgwick, and
said to be kept with two other letters.2 On July 18th, 1904,
the script pressed that its statements should be tested, and
repeated that the passage from the Symposium was in a
sealed envelope, but not in Dr. Hodgson's envelope.3 On
August 14th the script repeated its view of the contents of
this envelope, and—much less definitely 4—of those of Dr.
Sidgwick's envelope mentioned on July 13th, and again ex
pressed a wish for the experiment to be made. On November
25th, 1904, during the experiment suggested by Mr. Constable,6
it again expressed a wish to have the envelope opened.
The experiment was tried, as described in the S.P.R. Journal
for January, 1905, and proved a complete failure. There was
no reference in the envelope to the passage in the Symposium,
nor was there any 2 either in or on the envelope.
(21) The next incident concerns an attempt to describe a
ring and cross belonging to the late Archbishop of Canterbury,
Dr. Benson. The articles were certainly not known to me. The
1 See above, No. 19.
2 Here there is possibly a connexion indicated with the supposed
message of Dr. Sidgwick about three letters; see above, No. 16.
3 For my own knowledge that Dr. Hodgson had no such envelope,
see above, No. 19.
4 The envelopes were said to contain, one a reference to Love, the
other to Hope. The reference to Love was plainly an allusion to the
passage from the Symposium, but the reference to Hope was too in-
-definite for identification.
6 See above, p. 171.
302 Chapter XII. [PART
question whether the description is definite enough to be
of evidential value is for the reader to answer. The incident
is complicated, and cannot be briefly stated.
On January 31st, 1902, appeared a first reference to a bishop's
ring, in the words:
a/iiVySovrj—os* <rfavSovrj Wvovi Socris yavvfj.evy Krjpl no that is
not right. He was glad to get the ring—a bishop's ring.
On May 31st, 1902, just before I went abroad, the script
had: "Later not here in the mountains shall come the news
that helps." Then, after some illegible and unintelligible words,
it suggested that I should dream and remember, and concluded :
" amerysthine ameranth amethystine— one of those words, for
you for you only."
For some days, I made no further attempts at writing, as
I felt as if the faculty had left me.1 A sensation of returning
faculty on the night of June 20th was followed by an impulse
to write on June 21st, at the Riffel Alp, " in the mountains."
After a reference to an Essay which my husband was writing
at the time, the script concluded with a signature as follows :
etc EtC
^ "JVC n°— not quite right. ^ j^ .
I showed this to my husband on June 23rd, and to him the
initials which we read as ETC, or EVC (meaningless to me),
suggested incorrect combinations of those of Dr. Benson, EWT
(as Bishop of Truro), EWC (as Archbishop of Canterbury). He
said he had been thinking much of the Archbishop since we
had been at the Riffel Alp.
On June 24th, quite unexpectedly, at 9.45 a.m., when I was
dressing to go out, I had a strong impulse to write, and the
script produced attempts at the letter E, followed by an
account of an amethyst ring of a shape described.2 A cross
was also described and drawn : the arms and head terminated
in trefoils, and in the centre of each trefoil there was a jewel.
* Trans. apvySovrj is meaningless ; the next words mean " the ring,
the gift of a nation (or tribe), with joyful heart."
1 See above, p. 154.
2 For reproduction of drawings and complete script, see App., p. 425
Lin.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 303
There was no jewel, though there was some decoration indicated,
at the intersection of the arms. It was said that my husband
would know, and I was told to write again that evening.
On the same day, at 9.40 p.m., a further description was given
of the ring. The carved stone was held by a gold rim, ogive-
shaped, and the circlet of the ring was said to bifurcate to
hold the stone. The ring was further said to have something
inscribed upon it, three letters that looked like Hebrew, in
the length of the ring. It was again repeated that these state
ments could be verified, and that the incident was evidential.
On June 27th, 1902, a little gold chain was described, but
on July 1st it was said that this chain had nothing to do with
the cross, " the cross stands is not worn" ; this statement was
signed E.T.C. On July 7th, 1902, it was said that the ring
was quite right, though the letters might not be correct, and
a further attempt at those letters was made. Then came a
drawing of the upper part of a cross, undecorated, but surrounded
at the intersection with a circle, and the script added :
This is on the tomb but the other cross is lighter in design—and
has something glistening about it besides the gems in the trefoils,
Trifoliata gemmata stellata * I have tried to give those three points
before this but you have not understood.
I showed both writings of June 24th to my husband on the
25th, and he said that he remembered an amethyst ring
belonging to the Archbishop of the shape drawn—a double
ogive—but he knew nothing of any carving or inscription,
nor of any cross belonging to the Archbishop. I had no
recollection of any such ring or cross. I wrote to Mrs.
Sidgwick, asking her to obtain information if she could about
a ring and cross belonging to Dr. Benson, and on my return
to England I received from her drawings of two rings and a
cross which had belonged to him, and are now at Truro.
(1) The cross terminates in trefoils, in the centre of which
is an amethyst surrounded by three pearls, and the intersection
of the arms is surrounded by a circle, in the centre of which
is an amethyst. This cross was very seldom worn by the
Archbishop.
* Trans. " Three leaved, jewelled, starred."
304 Chapter XII. [PART
(2) There is a sapphire ring engraved with the arms
of the see of Canterbury ; the stone is oval or nearly round,
held in a solid gold setting, wider than the stone, and in no
way resembles the drawing or description in the script. This
ring Dr. Benson had as Archbishop of Canterbury.
(8) There is an amethyst ring of double ogive shape ; the
amethyst is held by a solid gold setting, not so deep as the stone.1
The amethyst is cut, and there is an inscription on the ring,
as follows: +EWB 1877 FRATKUM NN PIETAS ET DESIDERIUM.
This ring Dr. Benson had as Bishop of Truro, and this ring was
the one which my husband remembered. He had, and has, no
recollection of the other ring, though he must have seen it.
He had no knowledge of any inscription on the amethyst
ring. I never met Dr. Benson till he was Archbishop of
Canterbury, and I have never been to Truro, so that it may
be taken as certain that I never saw the amethyst ring.2
The description in the script is hardly definite enough for
identification with the ring and cross belonging to Dr. Benson,
and, moreover, is not correct in all points. The cross does,
it is true, terminate in trefoils, in the centre of each of which
is a jewel; the intersection of the arms is surrounded by a
circle ; and there are other jewels on the cross besides the gems
in the trefoils ; but there is a jewel in the centre, where the
script stated that there was none. The cross may be described
as trifoliata and gemmata, but the third word, stellata, seems
to have no application.
With regard to the ring, it is true that Dr. Benson had
an amethyst ring, that the stone was of the shape described,
that the stone was cut (if that is what is meant by " carved "
in the script of June 24), and that there was an inscription
upon the ring. The final drawing of the ring (June 24th) is
not unlike the actual ring; but if the statement that the
" circlet of the ring bifurcates to hold the stone " means that
1 In this ring the stone projects above and below the gold set
ting ; in the sapphire ring, the stone is completely within the setting.
2 I noted that " I seem to recollect Dr. Benson's wearing a massive
ring with arms upon it, but I cannot be sure." This was probably
the sapphire ring. No memory whatever was recalled by the
descriptions of the script, nor by the drawings of the amethyst ring.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 305
the gold setting is divided on each side of the stone into
two branches, the description is incorrect. The letters in the
inscription are not three nor do they look like Hebrew.
I have no explanation for the first word in the phrase of
January 31st, eOvovs Socris, " gift of a nation," but the actual
inscription on the amethyst ring suggests that the words "he
was glad to get the ring, a Bishop's ring," are appropriately
applied to that ring, received from friends on his appointment
to a Bishopric.1 The script of January 31st seems to show—
supposing that the whole thing is not accidental—that the
appearance of the ring and cross is not solely due- to the
direction of my husband's thoughts or mine during our stay
at the Riffel Alp. Whatever explanation is given of the script
of June and July, 1902, must extend to that of January 31st,
1902.
(22) On March 27th, 1901, quite in the early days of
the script, a piece of unintelligible writing was signed as
follows :
Tuus denique nomen adposui. interpretatio tua nunc.
I could make nothing of this signature, but when my
husband saw it on the same day he suggested that it was
a reversed and double monogram of E.G., Mr. Gurney's initials,
but neither he nor I could make anything of the three marks
round the G., which we took to be decorative.
1 With a view to ascertaining whether the description in the script
might fit the ring and cross worn by any Bishop, and so have no
connexion with Dr. Benson, I looked carefully on August 10th and
14th, 1902, at a portrait of Dr. Creighton which is at Newnham
College. In that portrait he wears a cross and two rings, but none
of these objects bears any resemblance to those described in the
script. Neither of the rings is ogive-shaped, one of them having
two large stones visible, and probably a third, while the stone of
the other ring is oval or circular. The cross does not terminate in
trefoils.
u
306 Chapter XII. [PART
On June 30th, 1901, the communication about a lost MS.
play,Jdescribed above,1 was preceded and followed by remarks
intended jto suggest that the communicator had been introduced
and succeeded by Mr. Gurney, thus : " G v r v ey. He cannot
speak—will^write a word— wait," then: "He has done what
he can. this is another thing EGy."
There was no doubt as to the person intended ; the interest
lies in ^the curious abbreviation of the surname, Gy. Neither
my husband nor I had any reason to attribute such an
abbreviation to Mr. Gurney, and we regarded it as a pure
piece of fancy.
In April, 1902, on my way to stay with Mrs. Forbes for
the first*time, I had a sudden desire to write automatically. The
first words written (April 14th) were : " Mrs. Forbes has got
it—for you in the house." 2 There were no letters waiting
for me, and I thought no more of the message. On April 15th
Mrs. Forbes and I tried Planchette together, and in the early
afternoon, after a .remark in looking-glass writing about my
desire for more evidence, followed in ordinary writing by the
words, " Edmund only wants to prove the reality of life," we
took a fresh start and Planchette wrote :
We read the first scribble as a carelessly written " Guy,"
and wondered if this had been suggested by the name of a
dog in the house ; of the second we could make nothing ;
the third was written while we were discussing the meaning
of the first two. Mrs. Forbes commented on the occurrence
of the surname Gurney, as the Christian name Edmund was
commonly used in her automatic writing. At the conclusion
of the Planchette, writing, in answer to a request of Mrs. Forbes,
three signatures were given. It appeared that there was a
slight general resemblance between the Planchette-signature
and the genuine signatures of Talbot Forbes (writing not
known to me but familiar to Mrs. Forbes), and H. (writing
1See p. 279. 2 For rest of writing, see above, p. 186.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 307
known to us both). Mrs. Forbes thought it would be
interesting to see if there were any likeness in the third
signature, purporting to be Mr. Gurney's, and fetched a letter of
Mr. Gurney's for the purpose of comparison. This letter had
been given to her " for test purposes " by H., to whom it was
originally addressed. Mrs. Forbes had known Mr. Gurney, but
had preserved no letters from him. No use had been made
by her of this letter since she received it.
The letter was signed EGy. On seeing this we looked back
at the earlier Planchette signature and read the first mark as
EGy, with a superfluous stroke between the G and y, while
the second, on turning the sheet half round, was plainly seen
to be EGy. I then remembered that the same abbreviation
had occurred in my script, and verified this recollection on my
return to Cambridge.1 I also found the earlier monogram of
March 27th, 1901, and recognised that the three marks, then
unexplained, have the form of y.
I have made enquiries among Mr. Gurney's friends, but have
not heard of any other occasion on which this abbreviated form
of signature was used. The Planchette-signature may obviously
represent the emergence of Mrs. Forbes' forgotten knowledge, for
she had read the letter which she used for comparison, though
she had no recollection of anything peculiar in the signature,
and commented on it with surprise when I drew her attention
to it. But the occurrence of the abbreviation in my script in
June, 1901, and possibly in March, 1901, cannot be thus explained.
I certainly had no conscious knowledge, and do not see how
I could have had any knowledge, or any reason for supposing
that Mr. Gurney had ever used this abbreviation ; nor can I
explain why my script attributed it to him. It is proper in
this connexion to note (1) that the letter had been given to
Mrs. Forbes for test-purposes, and (2) that the discovery of
the signature certainly justified (to me) the statement of my
script that Mrs. Forbes had " got it for " me " in the house."
(23) On August 18th, 1903, the scribe told me to send Dr.
Hodgson a name represented by Orinaria or Orellaria, anyhow
1 Before doing so I wrote from Mrs. Forbes' house to Sir Oliver
Lodge relating the incident.
308 Chapter XII. [PART
ending in ia, and later appearing as Oriana, Oronia, Auronia,
Ororia (or Orona). On September 9th, 1903, after the production
of a statement unknown to me, but subsequently found to be
true, the script made several attempts at a word or words. The
leading ideas in its first paragraph are a long word beginning
with C, a crown, and a star ; in the second, Camilla, yellow hair,
the constellation of Ariadne's crown, and the two words Oritella
Coronata. In this script there was indirect but unmistakeable
reference to Dr. Hodgson.
On September 17th, 1903, the script connected the statement
that I had now got the key-word with Dr. Hodgson's name,
and on October 5th it recurred to attempts at a word. An
allusion to Catullus' poem of Ariadne introduced the statement
that there was an omen and a name in the words Ariadne stella
coronaria, and that this was to be sent.1 Then came an allusion
to another constellation, Berenice's hair.2 After rejecting another
allusion to hair, the script recurred to a crown and combined
it with the mention of flowers. Further allusions to Ariadne
and the statement that the interpretation was easy concluded
this involved passage.
I sent these attempts to Dr. Hodgson as representing an
effort to produce something of significance to him. On
January 20th, 1904, I heard from Dr. Hodgson in reply. He
wrote that he had had the name syringa in his mind in
connexion with the phrase in my script about " lilia olympiaca
non Romana " (October 5th), but could trace no connexion.
Syringa blossoms, he then added, had a special significance to
him, having been given some time between 1893 and 1897
inclusive, through Mrs. Piper's trance, as a test message to be
sent to a former sitter, now dead. The recipient of the
message had more than once referred to this message as an
excellent test. The production of the word Syringa as a
message for Dr. Hodgson in my script would therefore be
another good ' test,' since I was wholly unaware of Dr.
Hodgson's associations with the word.
1 i.e. to Dr. Hodgson ; so I understood, and so I did.
2 For detailed comment see Appendix, p. 427. The reader can
judge thence whether I have unduly emphasised any points. To give
reasons here would complicate the narrative.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 309
It occurred to Dr. Hodgson to look up syringa in his
dictionary (the Century), where he found : " a plant of the
genus Philadelphus ; the mock orange . . . the original
plant was P. coronarius, a native of Southern Europe, etc."
He added that he had no conscious knowledge of the name
Philadelphus coronarius.
On reading this I looked back at the two passages in my
script. That of September 9th, 1903,1 appears to contain
attempts to produce the word coronarius, both in sound and
in sense, of much the same type as the attempts, in the
autumn of 1901, to give the three words, fiovoir<o\ov e? a<o.2
The word coronaria actually occurs in the script, the crown
is unmistakeable, and the two words in rather larger writing,
Oritella coronata, perhaps represent attempts at the words
Philadelphus coronarius. The reference to Ariadne's crown
seems superfluous, since the idea of crown is already con
veyed, but an explanation is perhaps to be found in the
script of October 5th.
There the words, containing "an omen3 and a name" which
I am told to " send " are Ariadne stella coronaria, and these
words are immediately followed by a reference to another
well-known constellation closely associated with Ariadne's
crown, namely Berenice's hair. I do not think that Dr.
Hodgson had seen—what occurred at once to me after hearing
from him—that the introduction of Berenice was accounted
for, if what was wanted was not only coronarius but Phila
delphus*
Combining the scripts of Sept. 9, and Oct. 5, 1903, and
remembering the attempts in 1901 to represent both the
sound and the meaning of /movdTrui\ov e? aw, I am therefore
disposed to see (1) in Oritella coronata and the other
suggestions, an attempt at the words Philadelphus coro
narius, and (2) in the references to Ariadne, Berenice and
the constellations, an attempt to convey the ideas. Moreover,
in the script of Oct. 5th, the crown is associated with
!See App., p. 427. 2 See above, p. 156.
3 For the use of this word in the script see above, note on p. 192.
4 The exact relationship of Berenice to Ptolemy Philadelphus is
a matter of dispute, but the names are closely associated.
310 Chapter XII. [PART
flowers—flowers unidentified, it is true, and described in the
singular phrase "lilia Olympiaca non romana."
Why the botanical name Philadelphus coronarius was
attempted rather than the word "syringa," it is impossible to
say without- more knowledge than we possess of the conditions
governing these phenomena. It is, however, hardly remarkable,
where Latin is the language used, that the Latin rather than
the English name of the plant should appear in the script.
The Greek word crvpiyg (a shepherd's pipe) from which
the Syringa has its name, does occur once in the script, on
Feb. 28th, 1903, where it is associated with asphodel, in the
words :
a-vpiyyi curcf>oSf\y not quite right a asphodel stalked reed pipe
I wanted to say. crvv r' a <7<£oS«A<j) re <rvpiyyi, T« CKfT Kadi&rav <^Sai *
asphodel stalks made their tuneless unsounding pipes.
Dr. Hodgson's letter suggested a search for other references
to the syringa, with the following results :
May 16th, 1902:
florum corona mox tibi plana erit.f Ask Dr. Hodgson for the
news.
Two days later, May 18th, 1902 :
in the woods it will he found the sweetest flower that blows—
then you will know that I sent you this message, all in a month
of May.
On November 24th, 1902 :
You will hear from Hodgson—important he has tried the flowers
but without success. Try other flowers yourself to send—white
with a scent—that helps.
Here the first words probably refer to an experiment pro
posed by Dr. Hodgson,1 but the last words may be intended
to suggest syringa blossoms.
(24) Part of the history of the allusions in the script to
* Trans. " With asphodel and syrinx they there sent down (?) their
songs."
t Trans. " The crown of flowers will soon be plain to you."
!See above, p. 58.
LIIL] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 311
a passage in Plato's Symposium has been already related,1 but
it will be convenient to collect here all the references.
The passage in question is Symp. 202B—203A ;2 there appear
also to be indications of allusions to an earlier passage in
the same dialogue, 197c. For readers unacquainted with the
dialogue I give the gist of the main passage and its context.
When three or four of the guests, at the banquet which
gives its name to the dialogue, have discoursed upon Love, it
is the turn of Socrates. After declaring that he will not emulate
the impassioned encomium of Agathon, Socrates says that he
will repeat what he learnt from Diotima, a prophetess of
Mantinea, and begins by denying that Love is a god at all.
Love is, says Uiotima, one of the race of spirits whose function
it is to act as interpreters and mediators between gods and
men. Then follows a description of the parentage and function
of Love and its place in the Platonic scheme of philosophy.
In March, 1901, when the script began, I had not read this
dialogue. I had read several of the dialogues of Plato when I
was at Newnham College in the years 1878-1881, but chiefly the
metaphysical works. I read general commentaries and criticisms,
and must have come across allusions to the Symposium, but I
certainly never read the dialogue, and had very little conscious
knowledge of its contents. When in May, 1901, there was an
allusion in my script to Diotima, I knew that she was the
one woman in the Platonic dialogues, and that she was intro
duced in the Symposium. I knew that the subject of the
speeches in that dialogue was Love, but I had no idea—at least
no conscious recollection—that there was any mention of spirits
in the Symposium, or any room for them in the Platonic scheme
of things. On June 1st, 1901, in consequence of the appear
ance of Diotima's name in the script on May 31st, I looked
up the passage where she is introduced. On Nov. 26th, 1902,
I read the immediate context in the dialogue, and between
Jan. 25th and Feb. 10th, 1903, I read the whole dialogue.
It was on May 31st, 1901, that the script made a first
recognisable and direct reference to the dialogue in the words
" Diotima gave the clue." I looked the passage up to see
what Diotima said, and how far it could be described as a
!See above, pp. 241-6, 301. 2See App., p. 414.
312 Chapter XII. [PART
" clue." I noted at the time 1 what I conceived to be intended
for the clue, namely that she told Socrates that Love was
neither a god nor a man, but a great spirit, and that the
spiritual, being between God and man, had the power of inter
preting and conveying messages from God to man and man to
God ; that all the intercourse and talk of God to men, whether
sleeping or waking, is through spirits, and one of these is
Love.
I was struck with the appropriateness of the message in itself,
and with the form in which it was conveyed—not directly in
words, but by an allusion to Plato. I was certain that I
had never seen the passage, and therefore that no emergence
of forgotten knowledge could account for its appearance, so
that the effect upon me was considerable and lasting. I
recognised, of course, that to persons who did not know me
there was no evidential value in the occurrence, as they
would think naturally that I had read and forgotten the
Symposium, and unconsciously made up the message.
In spite of my interest no further allusion was made in the
script to this passage, and I had no further occasion to think
of the dialogue till a year and a half later, when it happened
that the passage of the Symposium containing Diotima's view
was set for translation in Trinity College, as above described,2
and read by me in the natural course of my work.
But before that occurred there had been in the script
references, as I now think, to an earlier passage in the dialogue.
It was only when I read the whole work in January, 1903,
that I noticed a likeness between the two hexameter lines
introduced at the end of Agathon's panegyric of Love, and
some fragments that had occurred in my script. Those frag
ments had occurred between June 27th, 1901, and June 27th,
1902.
The lines of Agathon (Symp., 197 C) are as follows:
/ULSV ev avOpanroi*}, -zreAayei <Se
vrjve/ULiav ave/u.iai> KO'ITT}V VTTVOV T evl
* Trans. " Peace among men, calm on the sea, stillness of winds,
a resting-place and sleep in trouble."
1 Script book, June 1st, 1901. Note in diary, June 3rd, 1901.
2 See p. 242.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 313
1. On June 27th, 1901, the script wrote:
Quid coerces nenymon ya\rjvmv piapyv. *
No literary reminiscence was suggested to me by these words.
The phrase vi]ve/u.<av ya\r]vwv piafiajv does not occur, as far as I
can ascertain, in any classical author, and indeed would not
be expected. The words, <j>povtj/u.a vrjvepov yaX^i/ij? are used
by Aeschylus,1 but were it not for later allusions in the script
to this phrase there would be no reason to connect it with the
Symposium.
2. On Sept. 28th, 1901, the script wrote :
Noenymus vr]ve/ios «OTI yaAvjvij.
The introduction of eo-n between the two words turns the line
into half an hexameter, and so suggests a quotation.
3. On December 12th, 1901, the script wrote:
Nenymos yuA^i/ij—is the word but there is more. It is like the
avapi6firjTbv ye\a.<r/ia f but another meaning. It is Greek but written
in English letters—two words are plain. I think there is something
more. This is not your husband's word—he wants a word but more
than a name.
It is probably a vague recognition of the Aeschylean phrase
in the Agamemnon that introduces the words, avapiO/j.rjTov
ye\a(Tfia, clearly referring to another famous phrase of Aeschylus
in the Prometheus, though the quotation is inaccurate and
unmetrical.2 The next remark, " It is Greek, but written in
English letters. Two words are plain," appears to be a com
ment on what has already been written, rather than a fresh
contribution, for two words had been plainly given, one of
them being a Greek word written in English letters. The
next remark about " your husband's word " clearly refers to
the experiment with /MovoTrco\ov. In December, 1901, when
this script was written, I knew that there had been great
efforts to satisfy my husband about something, and that
* Trans. "Why dost thou stay the might of the windless calms?"
t Trans. " Unnumbered smiling."
!Aesch. Ag. 740, "what seemed a spirit of windless calm."
2Aesch. P. V. 89. Trwriw Te KV/j.O.TIUV dvypiOfiov ye\a<r/ia. "The
unnumbered smiling of the waves of the sea."
314 Chapter XII. [PART
Greek words had appeared in those attempts, but I did not
yet know that what he actually wanted was three Greek
words. It is true that he did not want a name.
4*. On June 27th, 1902, the script wrote:
Peace on earth tranquillitas super omnia maria terrasque omnes.*
Then listen for the fiery news—an arch of light bridges the chasm
between earth and sky.
Here the first nine words appear to be a paraphrase of
Agathon's first line, while the last clause of the second sentence,
"bridges the chasm between earth and sky," seems directly
to allude to the later passage in the Symposium where the
function of Love is described by Diotima, and Love is said
to " bridge over the intervening gulf."
The four extracts above quoted were produced under dif
ferent conditions. The first and last were written at the
Riffel Alp above Zermatt, on the same day in two succeeding
years. I had not with me any copy of my script, and the
coincidence of date, if not accidental, must be attributed to
unconscious and not conscious memory. The second extract
was written at Winchester, and the third at home. On none
of these occasions was there any apparent reason for my
thinking of storms or calms.1
The resemblance between these extracts and Agathon's lines,
taken in conjunction with the reference to the later passage
of the same Dialogue, suggests that an allusion to the Sym
posium is intended in the script. Direct allusion to the later
passage had been made unlikely, and in any case evidentially
useless, by my recognition of the appropriateness of the Diotima
incident. If, therefore, a further attempt was to be made in
the script to suggest the Symposium, some new direction must
be sought. But the possibility must not be forgotten that,
when I looked out the reference to Diotima on June 1st,
1901, my eye may have been caught by the lines of Agathon,
though I had no recollection of having seen them till I read
them in their context in January, 1903.
* Trans. " Calm over all the seas and all the lands."
1 The absence of corresponding weather conditions was noted at
the time.
Lin.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 315
The account of the next stage in these allusions to the
Symposium has been related in the narrative of the connexion
between me and Mrs. Forbes.1 Though I had fixed my mind
on the Symposium before writing on November 28th, 1902,
there was no reference to it in that or the next five following
scripts. On December 19th, however, after receiving from Mrs.
Forbes what I took to be an .allusion to the dialogue in her
script, my script, after saying that Socrates was in her2
writing, had :
In the sealed book is the word, the message to men.
the new and old Diatessaron ;
followed by the drawing of a book. Between December 19th
and January 14th I received from Mrs. Forbes several attempts
to give the words Symposium, etc. The one piece of script
produced by me in this period contained no reference to the
Symposium except to express the belief that Mrs. Forbes would
get the words wanted. In the last half of January there came
closely following upon one another five statements, which I
interpreted to mean that the passage in question was alluded
to and emphasised in Mr. Myers' forthcoming book, Human
Personality. The extracts are as follows :
January 14th, 1903.
Write regularly—there will be news for you to write next week
—good news before the month is out.3 The book will help—our
word is there contained.
January 22nd, 1903.
In Myers' book is a word that ought to make things plain—
read it to see—not at the head of a chapter, but quoted in the
text—it should have been—and surely is.
January 23rd, 1903.
Read the book for me. Look there for the helping word.
1 See p. 241.
2 No definite person is named ; if the " her," as is probable, refers
to Mrs. Forbes, the statement is incorrect, as far as is known. Mrs.
Forbes has found no word that can be identified as " Socrates " in
her writing.
3 See above, p. 247.
316 Chapter XII. [PART
January 25th, 1903.
Between God and Man is the Saipoviov ri—you will see that
quoted in the book—Love is the bond.
January 31st, 1903.
Look for what I have told you in the book—Myers' book.
The passage is important 'To the ends of the earth.' That is
the counter-sign.
On February 9th,1 1903, I noted2 that the above extracts
seemed to point to Human Personality. I had corrected for
press a slip consisting of a list of quotations for the headings
of the Chapters,3 and had seen4 in slip-proof Chapter VI. with
its Appendix. I had seen nothing else, and had no knowledge
in detail of the scheme of the book. Mr. Myers had never
talked it over with me ; on one occasion, late in the autumn
of 1900, he spoke to me of his view of sleep, and then said
that it would be found in his book. This, to the best of my
recollection, is the only occasion on which he ever spoke
to me of what was to be in his book.
I therefore had no means of knowing whether there was
any likelihood that my script would be justified in its
assertions, and I was very anxious to test this.
On Feb. 10,- as soon as I received the book, I turned to
the Index, and, failing to find " Diotima," went on to look
up the references under " Love." The pages given are II.,
282, for the "Definition," and I., 112-115, for "Platonic." It
will be seen that in Vol. I., pp. 112 to 113, after expressing
his own view that "Love is the energy of integration, which
makes a Cosmos of the Sum of Things," Mr. Myers goes on
to describe two views of love, which he calls respectively
physiological and Platonic, and quotes Plato's words, ep/u.tjvevov
Kal 6icnrop9/mevov, "the Interpreter and Mediator between God
iI knew that the book was expected to appear on February 10th.
2 On Feb. 7, 1903, when I saw Mr. Piddington in Cambridge,
I told him that my script had made statements about what was
contained in Human Personality, and that I hoped to find them
confirmed.
3 Hence no doubt the allusion in the script of January 22nd, 1903.
4 I obtained these proofs in slip from Miss Johnson in the spring
of 1901.
tin.] Miscellaneous References to Past Events. 317
and Man." These words begin the sentence which I regarded
as the 'clue' referred to in my script of May 31st, 1901, as
noted before endeavouring to carry out the instructions
received from Mrs. Forbes on Nov. 28th, 1902. On pp. 113
to 115 Mr. Myers gives an abstract of the "cosmical" aspect
of Love, as described by Plato in the Symposium, calling
special attention to the fact that this utterance is placed by
Plato in the mouth of Diotima, the prophetess. In Vol. II.,
p. 282, when Mr. Myers is summing up his views and defining
Love as "a kind of exalted, but unspecialised, telepathy," he
refers indirectly indeed, but none the less unmistakeably, to
this passage in the Symposium when he uses the phrase, " it
(Love) bridged the interval between spirits incarnate and
discarnate."
It is, I think, beyond dispute that my script was justified
in saying that in Mr. Myers' book was a word that would
"make things plain," and that this view of Plato's expressed
in the Symposium was "quoted in the text."1 The question
remains whether this information was more than a happy
guess.
That question will no doubt be differently answered by
different persons. For myself, I believe that I had no such
antecedent knowledge as would have suggested such a statement.
I took some pains at the time to investigate the question : I
have here stated all that I believe myself to have known
from Mr. Myers or otherwise about the actual contents of
the forthcoming book.2 No reference to this passage or to
Diotima is made in papers published by Mr. Myers in the
S.P.R. Proceedings. In his essay on Rossetti (Assays, Modern,
p. 334), which I must have read before March, 1901, there is
a reference to the phrase, ep/aujvevov KO.I SicnropOfievov, but there
is nothing to indicate the dialogue from which the phrase is
1 No explanation has been suggested for the words, " To the ends
of the earth that is the countersign." (Jan. 31, 1903.)
2 The proofs of Human Personality were in Mrs. Myers' house at
Cambridge, where I was a frequent visitor during the spring and
summer of 1901. It is therefore not impossible that I should have
seen, without consciously noticing, the direct reference to Diotima
in the first volume or the indirect allusion to the Dialogue in the
second volume.
318 Chapter XII. [PART
taken, so that it is impossible for any one unacquainted with
the Symposium to locate the allusion. Moreover, the quota
tion is used in a passage dealing with a different aspect of
the subject, and contains no suggestion of what seems to me
the keynote of the references in my script, viz., that com
munication between God and Man is effected by means of
spirits, and that Love is a Spirit. In the essay on Rossetti,
Mr. Myers writes: "Love, as Plato said, is the ep/myvevov KCU
SiaTropO/u.evov, the 'interpreter and mediator' between things
human and things divine ; and it may be to Love that we
must look to teach the worshipper of Beauty that the highest
things are also the loveliest, and that the strongest of moral
agencies is also the most pervading and keenest joy." • This is
quite different from the application made in Human Per
sonality, and suggested in my script.1
The next group of allusions to the Symposium has been
described above, and may be thus summed up : 2 On August
18th, 1903, the script stated that the passage from the Sym
posium was inside something contained in a box about which
I was to ask Dr. Hodgson, and on July 13th, 1904, and
August 14th, 1904, this passage was said to be contained in
an envelope which it was desirable to open. These statements
were not correct.
Readers of this paper will be accustomed to failures of the
script, and many reasons can be found for this particular
failure. Possibly one such reason should be sought in the
difficulty of excluding the tendency to guess, of which I have
spoken above. A phrase on December 19th, 1902, " in the
sealed book is the word," possibly intended to refer to Human
Personality, may have suggested to whatever faculty it is
that guesses that a sealed envelope was in question. But it
is unnecessary to look very far for the source of such a guess.
The numerous allusions in the script to the opening of envelopes
and similar things, show how anxious the scribe was to work
off a success in this direction.
1 The opinion formed at the time was expressed in my diary of
February 12th, 1903, and I have seen no reason to alter it.
2 See p. 299-301.
LIU.] Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 319
CHAPTER XIII.
MISCELLANEOUS REFERENCES TO FUTURE EVENTS.
I NOW come to a group of incidents which appear to relate,
not to past events, but to the future—an actual future, not a
present impression of what will be. In some cases it is stated
in the script that these incidents are prophetic ; in other cases
there is nothing to show the date of the supposed incident,
but subsequently occurring events seem to correspond with the
statements of the script. In these last cases, unless the cor
respondence of detail is pretty close, the evidence is valueless.
But that the reader may judge whether prophecy, even when
fulfilled, is due to anything more than casual coincidence, I
have collected together all instances in which it is possible to
see an attempt at prophecy. Some of the cases are absolute
failures ; some are probably due to the emergence of a forgotten
memory, recalled by a subsequent event ; others again need a
less impressive name than prophecies, and would be better
described as anticipations.
(1) I begin with an instance of unmistakeable intended pro
phecy which was not completed and had no success.
On December 29th, 1903,1 after a fluent exordium in Latin
urging patience and promising unique results, the scribe told
me to write that some man was coming in a ship upon the
sea, but not to me. I was told to note the day of writing
and watch. The script concluded with the words :
This is a prophecy. I will tell you more presently, note now
the unexpected journey on the sea.
I was in Algeria at the time, a fact which may account for
allusions to journeys upon the sea. But no one known to me
arrived either there or elsewhere, as far as I could ascertain,
1 For complete extract, see App., p. 429.
320 Chapter XIII. PART
on or just after December 29th. The script did not fulfil its
own promise of telling me more presently, and the incident
must be registered as a complete failure.
The next five incidents (2 to 6) are very slight, and it is
more than probable that there is no real connexion between
the sayings of the script and the subsequent occurrences which
reminded me of those statements. Probably these incidents
are of the same type as the common experience where some
event in the day revives the recollection of something similar
in a dream. The difference is that in this case the dream, so
to speak, had been previously noted, and therefore the corre
spondence, if any, is certainly genuine, and cannot be
attributed to false memory.
(2) On December 9th, 1902, I went up to town for the day,
intending to lunch at a house where I had never been before,
and of which I knew nothing but the address, Grosvenor Road,
Westminster Embankment. My associations with the neigh
bourhood being entirely with Victoria Station, I started to
find the house at the Pimlico end.
In some script produced at 20 Hanover Square before 12
noon on that day1 occurred, apparently without any context,
the words :
Why say Milbranke what is that here ?
The words before and after this appeared to belong together,
so that this sentence was quite disconnected and had neither
meaning nor context. On reading it over I supposed the name
intended to be Milbanke, as Milbranke seemed an unknown
combination. I subsequently found that the house I visited,
which we occupied later on for a month, was close to the
site of Milbank Penitentiary, and very near Milbank Street.
The connexion between the fact and the name in the script
is of the loosest, and even if connexion be recognised it is
likely that the script represents some vague knowledge on
my own part that the house which I was to visit was
near Milbank Street. If so, such knowledge was completely
latent, but in any case, I attach no value to the incident, atid
have included it here merely for the sake of completeness.
1 The script in question was out of my control before 12m.
mi.] Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 321
(3) On April 20th, 1901, the script, which was still apt to
be very unintelligible, wrote :
Stella caelo decernitur cur non animo? genea y«v1; computa.
nonas pone horas ; post aliquot dies—vis scire quot dies ?
1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 et adde insuper tres Scribere sine remissione
semper in provinciam. Aquilifer poscit aquilae nigri alas. ni
hilum donare. vetui. nugis tempus consumis 1 nuntium deii
iam accipe pedibus alitibus super maria volitantem. In caelo
omen in terra pax.*
This was not promising, and nothing ascertainable came of it.
(4) I have above1 described the apparent resemblance
between the statements of the script on October 21st and
October 23rd, 1903, and the first of the new Logia discussed
in Dr. Grenfell's paper on November 10th, as well as the
juxtaposition in both of the Platonic and Gospel passages.
In this case reminiscence may, I think, be eliminated as an
explanation of the coincidence.
(5) On September 18th, 1901, at 10.30 p.m., the script
described a bird, partly in words, partly by a rough drawing :
The bird is perched on something, with wings out and head
forward. It is crying at something, angry or terrified. It has
talons and a strong beak.
The drawing represented, very roughly, a bird with out
spread wings and lowered head facing the spectator and
looking to the spectator's right. The legs and talons were
conspicuous and outstretched, and the bird appeared to be
standing, not in flight. The description made it clear that a
bird of prey, eagle or vulture, was intended.
On September 19th I went to a furniture shop in Cambridge
to get a wardrobe, and inside the shop saw a very close
* Trans. "A star is seen in the sky why not in the mind?
Classes (?) count. Set nine hours, after a few days—do you want
to know how many days 1 five and then add three. Write with
out relaxing always into the country. The eagle-bearer demands
the wings of the black eagle give nothing I have forbidden it.
Do you waste your time on trifles? Receive now the messenger of
the god flying with winged feet over the seas. An omen in the
Heaven, peace upon the earth."
!See p. 52.
x
322 Chapter XIII. [PART
representation of the bird described in the script of the night
before. The bird was supporting a slab which served as a
pedestal table; the wings were outstretched and the head held
forward, the beak was open, and the bird had an angry look.
But the head was turned to the spectator's left, not, as in the
drawing, to the right.
I have no external corroboration for this incident, which was
not noted in writing till October 14th. But at the time I
was certain that the script immediately preceded the visit to
the shop.
(6) On September 4th, 1901, at the end of a long piece of
writing, the script, in quite a different hand, wrote :
Madment
Maidment
Evan
awnsley November 1857.
And on September 7th it wrote :
M A I M E N T I S W I T H I N. on the right-hand
side as you look—the window is behind, so it is not very plain to
read. But he knows it.
From September 26th, 1901, till October 2nd, my husband
and I stayed with friends at Winchester. During our visit
our host read to us at breakfast one morning, I think on
September 28th, parts of a letter from a friend called Rawnsley.1
On September 30th, or possibly on September 28th,2 I went
with my hostess to a shop in Winchester, and noticed the name
" Maidment," not outside the shop, but on a paper bag hang
ing up inside the shop on the right-hand wall. The shop-
window was behind me, when I was within the shop, but the
name was quite plain to read. At the time I did not connect it
with anything; it was only after my return from Winchester
that, on reading through the copies of the script and finding the
words " Maiment is within," I remembered having noticed
the name Maidment within a shop at Winchester. I then
remembered the reading of a letter from some one called
1 1 do not know the Christian name of the letter writer.
2 I am not able to fix the date with absolute certainty, but have
little doubt that it was on September 30th.
nil.] Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 323
Eawnsley, but the date " November 1 857 " has no discover
able connexion with this or any other incident known to me.
(7) In the early part of March, 1903, I was engaged in an
investigation of the possible significance of the Greek letter
2 which had appeared in the script frequently. On March 2nd
I spoke to Miss J. E. Harrison of my impression that the
letter might have a symbolic meaning for Neo-Platonists or
other later Greek writers. On March 3rd she brought me a
book bearing on the subject. On that evening the script pro
duced the following :
eiSpwv 3 T( av <rol aviafa\e? <fiavrjrai, ^fure\evrov rb XPV/*a
ovSe py.Si<as SiaTeXeirai dAAa crvv O-KOiry 1 619 crvve(riv e\doi$.
Soy/iaTa evrfv—SiSacr/caAia KCU avrofiara irapa. N vfiifriav irapavoias.
This was followed by two rough drawings of reversed
Sigmas and a description of a bound volume lying on a table
in an upstairs room.
The first word is unintelligible ; the rest can be more or
less represented in English : " whatever seems useless to you
—the thing is half done—nor will it easily be accomplished, but
with investigation you may come (?) to understanding. There
were doctrines in it, didaskalia and automata." The last
words are again unintelligible ; they mean something about
' madness from the nymphs.'
The general drift of this script may be accounted for by
my occupation about the time it was produced; in any case
the observations were justified, for on the next day, March
4th, in the course of my classical work, I came across an
explanation of one aspect at least of the 2 in my script. But
the explanation was only partial—' the thing ' only ' half
done '—and the full ' understanding ' was not reached till some
months later after considerable ' investigation.' The phrases
about doctrines, didaskalia, and automata, were still per
fectly unintelligible.
On March 4th I wrote to a friend to make enquiries about
the use of symbolic letters in late Greek and early Christian
I<TKOTTYI is, as I subsequently found, commonly used by Plotinus
in the sense required by the script 'consideration, care.' Its mean-
ins in classical Greek is ' watch-tower.'
324 Chapter XIII. [PART
writers, and on March 6th I heard from him that he had
consulted another friend who, as it happened, was to dine with
us on March 7th and would then bring me a book which
would probably answer my question, viz., the Didascalia.
This name was unknown to me, as I was absolutely un
acquainted with the literature and history of early Chris
tianity. The book contained just such information as I
wanted about the use of symbolic initial letters in general,
and I find it difficult to believe that the juxtaposition in
my script on March 3rd of the words didaskalia and automata
is unconnected with the confirmation on March 7th in the
Didascalia of what had been suggested to me by the auto
matic phenomena.
(8) The next incident is rather a curious one ; the script
seems to show connexion with a newspaper paragraph that
appeared shortly after its production. But the paragraph, on
investigation, was found to be wholly untrue, so that the script
anticipated, if anything, not facts, but the fiction of a
journalist. The story is related in detail, as it illustrates,
among other things, the difficulties of investigation.
On June 27th, 1902, when I was at the Eiffel Alp, the
script began as follows :
Veni Creator were the words exultans cantavit apud spiritus
sanctos inter filios Dei.*
The context suggested to me that this paragraph (in contrast
with the rest of the script) was of general, not personal applica
tion.
I showed the script of June 27th to my husband in tlie
afternoon of June 29th.1 I also, about the same time, mentioned
the script to Miss Harrison.2
* Trans. " triumphantly (he or she) sang at the place of the holy
spirits among the sons of God."
I I have a note that two pieces of June 27th and June 29th were
shown to him together.
2 I have a statement from Miss Harrison that the Veni Creator
was mentioned to her before July 4th. On that day she left the
hotel before seeing me, and on her return about 12.0, I asked
her whether she remembered my speaking of the Veni Creator.
She replied that she did, and noted her recollection before hear
ing of my discovery in the newspaper on July 4th.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 325
On July 4th I saw, by chance, among the papers in the hotel
reading-room the Giornale d'Italia of July 2nd. The regular
supply of papers to the hotel began on July 1st, and this
was the first Italian paper which I had an opportunity of
seeing. I found in it the following statement, telegraphed from
Paris on July 1st : " A Coursegontes [sic\ nelle Alpi Marittime
1'espulzione delle suore dello Spirito Santo avenne manu
militari. Le suore abbandonarono il convento cantando il
Veni Creator."
I thought that the above script might refer to the expulsion
of the Sisters named, as it described some one singing in
exultation the Veni Creator, 'apud spiritus sanctos.'
I wrote to Mr. Piddington on July 4th, and on July 6th
he answered that he would make enquiries about the incident
described in the Giornale d'ltalia. These enquiries were
subsequently made, and showed :
(a) That there is no community of any kind at Coursegoules,
in the department of Alpes-Maritimes.
(6) That in that Department, at Juan les Pins, on the
coast, there was a convent of the Sisters, of the Holy Ghost,
' filles du Saint Esprit.'
(c) That the only convent in the Department of the Alpes-
Maritimes which did not conform to the law, ' loi du ler juillet,
1901,' was this convent at Juan les Pins.1
(d~) That on June 29, 1902, the Sous Prefet of Grasse, in
conformity with the edict of June 27th, 1902, at 8 o'clock in
the morning, gave notice at the Orphelinat that the Sisters
were to leave, and that at 12 o'clock precisely the sisters
and orphans left the Orphelinat for the Oratory of Juan les
Pins, accompanied by the Superior of the Oratory, M. J.
Bie Etcheborne.2
(e) That at no moment did the Sisters sing the Veni
Creator.
It is clear, therefore, that if the script of June 27th refers
to this incident at all, it refers not to the actual occurrence
but to the incorrect version of it which appeared in the Giornale
1 See Ccmrier de Cannes, July 1, 1902.
2 I have his letter from Biarritz of Aug. 10, 1902.
326 Chapter XIII. [PART
d'Italia1 of July 2nd. The script was written on June 27th,
the date, as I subsequently found,2 of the decree concerning
the unrecognised orders. It makes no mention of the locality
where this occurred, or was to occur, and neither the actual
incident nor the newspaper account offers any explanation of the
words inter filios Dei? The use of the past tense, when the
event referred to in the script has not yet occurred, is paralleled
in other cases.4
On no other occasion has there heen any reference in the
script to the singing of any hymn, English or Latin.
(9) In the summer of 1903, whilst I was abroad, the script
committed itself to a series of prophecies, unmistakeable pro
phecies, expressed in the future tense with definite dates,
within which the fulfilment was to occur. The statements
made may be summarized as follows :
(a) that three public men would die before my return to
England ;
(6) that one death would be within the week in which Tues
day, June 9th, was contained ;
(c) that the third death would be sudden;
(d) that on June 24th there were two more deaths to come,
one of them unexpected ;
(e) that on July 3rd the third death had not occurred;
(/) that I should see something relevant in the papers at
Bale;
(g) that in one case there would be a public funeral.
The vagueness of the definition 'public men' precluded
effectual test, but statement / (at all events) wast not satisfied.
1 A letter to the editor of the Giornale, asking for further information
about the incident described in the paper of July 2nd, received no
answer.
2 In the Gaulois of July 5th, which I read on July 7th, I found
the decree spoken of as ' d^cret du 27 juin ' ; this was my first
conscious knowledge of the date of the decree, but probably I had
seen earlier references to it under that title.
3 The words may be a reminiscence of Job : " when the morning
stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy," but
that does not explain their occurrence in this context.
4 See specially below, p. 331, in the Marmontel incident.
Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 327
(10) On October 6th, 1903, after a remark1 about a member
•of my husband's family, the script went on :
G-reat changes all will see in the next year, more than one
breach in the close family.
The allusion to the " close family " was appropriate to my
husband's family. Three households, those of his father and
two married brothers, at Brighton, and an unmarried aunt at
Steyning, eleven miles off, constituted his whole family. There
had been no breach in the family circle since the death of
his mother in 1893, more than ten years before this writing.
It is a fairly safe prophecy to suggest breaches in a family
containing some old members, and the use of the term ' breach '
is vague. But it must be admitted that the statement of the
script was verbally correct. On June 2nd, 1904, my husband's
aunt died, and in September, 1904, the son of his youngest
brother left home to establish himself in New Zealand. So
that " in the next year " there was " more than one breach "
in what till then had been a singularly "close family."
(11) On July 3rd, 1904, there seems to have been a further
.attempt to foretell one of the two incidents just referred to,
viz., the departure of my husband's nephew for New Zealand.
The incident is complicated. The script of July 3rd purported
to give a prophecy, the fulfilment of which was to induce us
to open the sealed envelope containing the allusion to the
Symposium.2 The script stated that some one would see all
the constellations, and that some event already foretold would
take place on September 19th. Later, on July 18th, the script
stated the date less definitely in the words, obviously referring
to this same prophecy :
Prophecy is hard to work but it shall be done this time—read
.all with care after mid-September next and you will find all you
want for proof.
On July 3rd I looked through the script and found only
two prophecies unfulfilled at that date, one being that there
would be " more than one breach " in my husband's family.3
1 Too vague to be evidential.
2 The script is quoted in App., p. 419.
3 For the other (on Feb. 1, 1904) see above, p. 211. That, too,
may be considered to have been eventually fulfilled.
328 Chapter XIII. [PART
Very soon after the middle of September there was another
breach.1 As above stated my husband's nephew left for New
Zealand in September, and, I suppose, saw " the rest " of the
constellations, as any one must in a journey to the Antipodes.
His vessel sailed on September 22nd and September 19th had no
special association with his journey. We heard of his intention
to go on July 21st, so that both the above statements in
the script were antecedent to any knowledge of mine, as his
plans had not been long discussed and were wholly unknown
to us till July 21st.
(12) On May llth, 1901, I had had a small party of ladies,
to dinner—my husband was dining out—and after the depar
ture of the guests I had gone upstairs, when I felt a sudden
strong desire to write automatically, and came down again to
find materials. I wrote in the dark, at 11.10 p.m. Some
earlier statements 2 in the script were veridical ; the conclusion
was as follows :
Do not hurry. date this hoc est quod volui—tandem.
SiKaiocrvvrj KOI XaP®- oTjpifriavei <rvveToicriv. A.W.V. KOU aAA<j>
Tivl io-a>s. calx pedibus inhaerens difficultatem superavit. magno-
pere adiuvas persectando semper. Nomen inscribere iam possum—
sic, en tibi !
Zijra—oSaAicrKGiKos SaA/uomKos /^ovos nowry TTIOTOS.
I showed the script to my husband next day. We could
make nothing of it, and were much amused at the drawing
* Trans. " This is what I have wanted, at last. Justice and joy
speak a word to the wise. A.W.V. and perhaps some one else.
Chalk sticking to the feet has got over the difficulty. You help
greatly by always persevering. Now I can write a name—thus,
here it is ! " The rest is unintelligible.
1 The first breach had occurred on June 2. 2 See p. 208.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 329
of what we often referred to in the next few days as the
"cockyoly bird."
On the evening of May 16th I saw in the Westminster
Gazette an account (abridged) from the Daily Mail of an
incident occurring on the night between Saturday, May llth,
and Sunday, May 12th, which recalled to me the script above
quoted. The writer of the account in the Daily Mail stated
that a friend of his had been compelled to leave his rooms "in
one of the Inns within a stone's throw of the Law Courts " on
account of " uncanny happenings." The writer and a friend
of his arranged to sit through the night of May llth in the
empty rooms and watch ievents. Precautions were taken to
prevent intrusion, and powdered chalk was spread on the floor
of the two smaller rooms1 "to trace anybody or anything that
might come or go." The watchers saw a door unlatched and
opened slowly, and heard the click of the handle. This was
at 12.43 a.m. At 12.56 the same thing occurred to another
door. Both doors were closed, and no mark was visible on
the powdered chalk. At 1.32 a.m. the right-hand door opened
again as before, and at 1.37 the left-hand door opened. At
1.40 both doors closed simultaneously " of their own accord."
Between 1.45 and 1.55 this happened twice again, so that there
were in all four openings and three closings unaccounted for.2
The last openings took place at 2.7 and 2.9, and both watchers
noticed marks on the chalk in the two little rooms. On
examination it was seen that the marks were "clearly denned
bird's footprints in the middle of the floor, three in the left-
hand room and five in the right-hand room." The marks were
identical, and exactly 2| inches in size ; they might be com
pared to the footprints of a bird about the size of a turkey.
There were three toes and a short spur behind. Nothing
further occurred. The footprints were seen at 2.30 ; they
waited till 3.30, and then went home. No attempt is made
to explain the occurrence, and the correspondent says that he
has "simply recorded facts."
The statement in the script, that the sticking of chalk to
the feet got over the difficulty, followed by a drawing of a
1 There were four rooms in all.
2 The first time the doors had been closed by the watchers.
330 Chapter XIII. [PART
bird with a leer is a singularly appropriate comment on the
story in the Daily Mail. But the remarkable point is that
the script was written at 11.10 p.m., whereas the first opening
of the door did not occur till 12.43 a.m. and the footprints
were not observed till 2.30 a.m. The statement therefore of
the script anticipated the reported event by some three hours,
and its publication by a still longer period. It is true that
the sprinkling of the chalk probably preceded the writing,
but there is no reason to think that the writer of the tale had
any expectation as to the sort of marks he might find in the
chalk. Nothing that had previously occurred suggested that
the supposed disturber of the rooms was a bird.1
At the time when this script was obtained I had no reason
to attach any particular value to my automatic writing, and
no steps were taken to obtain external corroboration of the
dates of the script except entries in rny Diary and script-
book and communication of the writing at the first opportu
nity to my husband. In this case the absurd element in the
script and the quaintness of the phrase about the chalk stick
ing to the feet drew special attention to the writing, and it
was discussed by us more than once. The word calx is
ambiguous ; it might mean " heel " as well as " chalk," and
it was not till we saw the story in the Westminster Gazette
of May 16th that we found an interpretation for the Latin
words. The question of a connexion between the story and
the script is not affected by the value of the story. The
script was obtained on May llth, and whether or not a bird
made marks in the chalk in the early hours of May 12th, it
is certain that a story to that effect was printed on May 13th
and brought to my knowledge on May 16th.
(13) On August 29th, 1901, at the end of an attempt to
guess /jLovoTria\ov e? aio the script wrote :
Don't try—let it come. When you don't expect it will be plain.
,October will help—the 19th. Kemember.
On September 28th, when I was staying at Winchester, the
script contained the following:
1Tho writer of the article in the Daily Mail was seen by Mr.
Piddington, and stated that he and his friend had no anticipations
as to what they might discover.
mi.] Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 331
The old world & the new—note the date—-and the sequence—and
count the days—ten more & other nine then two.
Counting the days—twenty-one—and adding them to Septem
ber 28th brought the date to October 19th, which I remem
bered to have been already mentioned in the script. My
husband saw both passages of writing, but I mentioned to
no one else the suggestion that any event was to be expected
on October 19th.
On October 16th I heard accidentally, and to my great sur
prise, that some friends of mine were going to America shortly.
I asked how soon they were to start, and the reply was ' Next
Saturday.' It was only after a few minutes that I considered
what day of the month ' Saturday' would be, and on finding that
it was the 19th, remembered that something had been said in
my script about October 19th.
It will be seen that the remarks in the script, though they
might easily be more definite, unmistakeably refer to some
connexion on the 19th October between England and America.
From enquiries subsequently made, it appeared that the
decision of my friends was recent, and that on Aug. 29th
and Sept. 28th there was no one who knew, or could suppose, that
any event connecting England and America likely to interest me
would occur on Oct. 19th. The information then could not have
been conveyed to me by telepathy, and the only question for
consideration is whether it was sufficiently definite and dis
tinctive to be beyond the range of conjecture or chance.
(14) On December llth, 1901, the script wrote as follows :
Nothing too mean the trivial helps, gives confidence. Hence
this. Frost and a candle in the dim light Marmontel he
was reading on a sofa or in bed—there was only a candle's light.
She will surely remember this. The book was lent not his own—
he talked about it.
Then, after a reference to a separate incident, recognised as
such, there appeared a fanciful but unmistakeable attempt at
the name Sidgwick.
No meaning was conveyed to me by the above. The allusion
to "she" and the name given suggested that I should apply to
Mrs. Sidgwick.
332 Chapter XIII. [PART
I accordingly wrote to Mrs. Sidgwick to ask if the allusion
to Marmontel had any meaning for her. I heard from her on
December 17th that she could make nothing of it, but that if
the name turned up in some MSS. which she was then reading,
she would let me know. I was away from home at this time,
and had not had the opportunity of writing for some days.1 I
had, in fact, decided to abandon any attempt at writing till
my return home, but I was so disturbed all the 17th by a
desire to write that I made time, and at 6.50 that evening
obtained the following:
I wanted to write Marmontel is right. It was a French book,
a 2 Memoir I think. Passy may help Souvenirs de Passy or Fleury.
Marmontel was not on the cover—the book was bound and was lent—
two volumes in old-fashioned binding and print. It is not in any
papers—it is an attempt to make someone remember—an incident.
Soon after my return to Cambridge, about Dec. 25th, 1901,
I was looking through a list of books—which I had glanced
at before Dec. llth—and found an advertisement of 'Mar
montel, Moral Tales, Selected and Translated by G. Saintsbury.'
This, strange though such an admission may seem, was, as far
I could remember, my first conscious knowledge of Marmontel *
as a French writer.
In January, 1902, 1 wrote to our friend Mr. Marsh, asking him
to come for a week-end visit, and he replied, fixing March 1st.
I had had no communication with him since June, 1901, till
this letter in January. I sent him a postcard about Feb. 23rd,
reminding him of the date of his expected visit, and he replied
in a letter on Feb. 24th.
On March 1st Mr. Marsh arrived, and that evening at dinner
he mentioned that he had been reading Marmontel. I asked if
he had read the Moral Tales, and he replied that it was the
Memoirs. I was interested in this reference to Marmontel, and
asked Mr. Marsh for particulars about his reading, at the
same time explaining the reasons for my curiosity. He then
!See above, pp. 227, 8. 2 Possibly "or."
3 I must have seen his name in French Histories or Literature Manuals.
But I have little first hand acquaintance with the period to which he
belongs, and was certainly not aware, till March, 1902, that he wrote
Memoirs.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 333
told me that he got the book from the London Library, and took
the first volume only to Paris with him, where he read it on the
evening of February 20th, and again on February 21st. On
each occasion he read by the light of a candle, on the 20th
he was in bed, on the 21st lying on two chairs. He talked about
the book to the friends with whom he was staying in Paris.
The weather was cold, but there was, he said, no frost. The
London Library copy is bound, as most of their books are,
not in modern binding, but the name ' Marmontel ' is on the
back of the volume. The edition has three volumes; in Paris
Mr. Marsh had only one volume, but at the time of his visit
to us he had read the second also.
I asked him whether ' Passy ' or ' Fleury ' would ' help,' and
he replied that Fleury"a name certainly occurred in the book,
in a note ; he was not sure about Passy, but undertook to
look it up on his return to town, and to ascertain, as he
could by reference to the book, what part of the first volume
he had been reading in Paris. He is in the habit of reading
in bed, but has electric light in his bedroom at home, so that
he had not read ' in bed or on a sofa by candle light ' for
months, till he read Marmontel in Paris.
On his return to town Mr. Marsh wrote to me (March 4
1902), that on Feb. 21st, while lying on two chairs he read
a chapter in the first volume of Marmontel's Memoirs describing
the finding at Passy of a panel, etc., connected with a story
in which Fleury plays an important part.
It will thus be noted that the script in December, 1901,
describes (as past) an incident which actually occurred two
and a half months later, in February, 1902,—an incident which
at the time of writing was not likely to have been foreseen by
any one. I ascertained from Mr. Marsh that the idea of reading
Marmontel occurred to him not long before his visit to Paris.
It is probable that had he not seen me almost immediately
upon his return, when his mind was full of the book, I should
never have heard of his reading it, and therefore not have
discovered the application of the script of Dec. 16th and 17th.
The description is definite and in the main accurate. There
are however errors : though the weather was cold, it does
not seem to have been actually freezing on either of the two
334 Chapter XIII. [PART
nights in question; the book was not in two volumes only,
as seems implied, though only two volumes had been read
when the incident was related to me ; the name Marmontel
was on the back of the book, though not on the face of
the cover ; the binding, though not modern, can hardly be
described as old-fashioned. But the reference to Passy and
Fleury—names which, so far as I can discover, are not
together in any passage of Marmontel's Memoirs except that
read by Mr. Marsh on Feb. 21st—is a precise and, I think,
remarkable coincidence.
Two other points may be noted : (1) the refusal of the
script on Dec. 17th to accept the suggestion that the name
Marmontel may refer to something in MSS. then being read
(in December) by Mrs. Sidgwick; and (2) the omission of any
reference to the name of the reader of Marmontel. The
omission of this, the most conclusive piece of evidence of all,
had it been given, is paralleled by other incidents in the
script. In particular it may be noted that in the last two
incidents narrated, where the allusion seems to be prophetic,
there is a marked omission of definite statements. Thus, in
No. 12, no reference is given to the place where the 'chalk-
footed bird' appeared, nor, in No. 13, to the person who was
to go from ' the old world ' to the new.
The sentence, ' She will surely remember this,' in the writing
of Dec. llth is unintelligible at least, if not misleading; the
idea is apparently repeated on Dec. 17th in the words, " it is
an attempt to make some one remember." A possible
explanation of this is suggested by the occasional appearance
in the script of what I have called conversations,1 where the
third person " she " plainly refers to myself, the writer, who
is more frequently addressed as " you." Thus on March 10th,
1902, there was written: "There is a letter for you gone astray
—it will arrive—remember this date (here a gap, then) I have
told her of the letter, the strayed letter—(another gap, then)
your husband etc. etc." Here you, her and your all seem tc-
refer to the writer, myself, part of the remarks being
apparently addressed to me and part spoken of me. In the
present case it is possible that what the writing intended to
iSee p. 68.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 335
convey was that when the actual incident was spoken of in
the presence of the writer—as it was on March 1st, 1902, by
Mr. Marsh—"she would surely remember" that this incident
had been described in the script.
Although at this time the original writing was not posted
to Sir Oliver Lodge I am able to offer external corroboration
of the date of the first reference to Marmontel, as I have
preserved Mrs. Sidgwick's letter received by me on December
17th, 1901, which shows that the name had been mentioned
to her by me before that day as occurring in my script.
(15) On April 2nd, 1903, the script described a cross on
stone steps in the following words :
Now draw on five stone steps a cross [dravring] and on the
cross hangs a wreath, a fresh green wreath. They have come to see
it there—out in the open on the hill side in the sound of the sea.
It is not a personal thing—but know(rc). This is for evidence.
There is an inscription fastened to the wreath. In honour A. J. C.1
In ripis Douern I think it is for an old heroic deed. Grey sky
and sea and the grey gulls cry in the wind. Kyrie eleeison.
A few days later, April 10th, 1903, it added:
Crosik or Croisic ought to help you to the cross and wreath.
In the Journal for November, 1903, among other unidentified
allusions, I advertised the names Douern and Croisic in con
nexion with a cross, but I received no information leading to
any identification. Croisic is, as I knew, in Brittany, and the
allusion to it may have been suggested by the word Douern
and the talk of a stone cross on a hill side.
The cross remained completely unaccounted for, and no
further help towards identification was given by the following
allusion on Feb. 24th, 1905 :2
Wait now for this news. There is a grey stone cross on the
hill side close by the spot—a cross on stone steps. Voltigern
no Volternius ager is more like. Voltern's Field.
Someone could tell you of the cross.
aThe second initial is not as clearly marked as the others. See
facsimile on next page.
2 The script of Feb., 1905, and March, 1906, falls outside the
period dealt with in this paper, but is here included as it refers to
the same subject as the earlier script of April, 1903.
336 Chapter XIII. [PAST
On March 17th, 1906, a river in Yorkshire was mentioned
in my presence as the Derwent. The name " Derwent " had
always been vaguely suggested to me by the " Dovinans " of
the early script,1 and the "Douern" of April 3rd, 1903, had
seemed a possible variant. The mention, then, of the York
shire Derwent probably revived recollections of earlier script,
and at 11.30 p.m. that evening was produced another reference
to the cross, this time apparently suggesting that I should
have an opportunity of seeing and recognising the cross on its
five steps, and the green wreath :
Stone I want to say. Stone a white stone and no inscription
but you would recognise if you saw. Can you not find the cross
on its five steps and the green wreath ?
Domus resonantis Albuneae * where flows the stream o'er Dufa's
cliff, the Derwent's wandering course. On the banks of the stream—
the Derwent water, not a lake—wait and see yourself what I mean.
This revived my interest in the original unidentified cross
on five stone steps, and led me to look out for any possible
means of verifying the statements of the script. The descrip
tion had always puzzled me as it seemed to imply two incon
sistent things, (a) an old heroic deed and (6) a modern
memorial, suggested by the fresh green wreath and the initials
A. J. C. The second of these initials, as I noted at the time,
was by no means as distinct as the first and third. Fac-
.similes are given below of the cross drawn in the script and
the initials :
1*
* Trans. " home of the echoing Sibyl." Horace (Od. I. 7. 12) so
•describes Tibur.
!See above, p. 278.
[ To face p. 336.
Lin.] Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 337
On April 4th, 1906, I went by arrangement to sit with a
little group of experimenters who were meeting at the rooms
of Miss Curtois in Westminster. I had made Miss Curtois'
acquaintance in the autumn of 1905, and visited her for the
first time on December llth, 1905. I had tea with her on
that day, but I have no recollection of looking at anything
in her room and certainly made no examination of her books
or pictures. It was a very foggy day and we were busy
talking.
On my second visit, however, on April 4th, before the
arrival of the other sitters, Miss Curtois and I had some
talk about books, and in so doing I looked over her book
shelves. I then saw hanging on the wall a photograph of
a cross on stone steps which reminded me at once of the
cross described in the script. I asked her what it was and
she told me that it was a cross set up by herself in memory
of her mother. I then asked Mrs. Curtois' initials and found
that they were A. H. C. The cross had been erected from the
design of Mr. Jessopp. I next asked Miss Curtois whether
there had not at some time been a green wreath on the
cross—there was none in the photograph at which I was
looking—and she, with some surprise, replied in the affirma
tive and added that there had been some discussion about a
green wreath which was at one time placed on the cross. I
subsequently obtained from her the following information and
a photograph (here reproduced) of the cross with the green
wreath attached.
In the churchyard of Washingborough, a village near Lincoln,
on the river Witham, was an old pedestal of five stone steps.
On this pedestal a modern cross was erected from the designs
of Mr. Jessopp in memory of Mrs. Curtois, and dedicated on
July 5th, 1903. There is no inscription on cross or pedestal.
There is a tablet in the village church commemorating the
erection as follows : " In loving memory of Ann Henrietta,
widow of the Eev. Atwill Curtois. . . . this tablet has been
erected and the village cross replaced by her daughter,
Margaret Anne Curtois, 1903." A green wreath was once
placed on the cross, most probably at Christmas, 1903. Miss
Curtois writes in April, 1906 : " There was a great deal of
338 Chapter XIII. [PART
discussion about the wreath as it was feared that it might
injure the cross, and the experiment was not repeated."
The village of Washingborough lies on a little hill near the
top of which stands the cross. Miss Curtois writes that she
has seen the country beneath it flooded and dotted with sea
gulls, but the sea is some thirty miles away.
It thus appears that a few days after the reference in my
script (March 17th, 1906) suggesting that I should have an
opportunity of seeing and recognising the cross which had
been described first on April 2nd, 1903, I did see and recog
nise such a cross and the initials of the person in whose
honour it was erected were very like those given in the
script. The suggestion in the script of ancient and modern
associations also corresponds with the facts. It is correct to
say—or rather there was one occasion at least when it might
have been said with truth : " on the cross hangs a fresh
green wreath," and " they have come to see it there out in
the open on the hill side," but not " in the sound of the sea."
It is also true that there is " no inscription." In the first
script it was said that there was an inscription fastened to
the wreath ; in the last script, " a white stone and no
inscription." Miss Curtois does not know whether any inscrip
tion was attached to the wreath but, as stated above, there
is no inscription on cross or pedestal.
No explanation has been found to account for the names
associated in the script with the cross : Douern, Croisic,
Volternius or Voltigern. There seems no connexion between
them and Washingborough or the Witham. But the general
resemblance between the description in the script and the
cross erected by Miss Curtois, and the near approach to
correctness in the initials given in the script, seem to make
the incident worth relating. It should be said that a photo
graph of the cross with the wreath on it hangs in another
part of Miss Curtois' room, so that it is possible that I saw
this picture in December, 1905, and that a recollection of it
produced the script of March 17th, 1906. But when that
script was produced, I had no expectation of visiting Miss
Curtois' house. Her letter asking me to do so was written on
March 23rd and was received by me on March 24th.
LIII.] Miscellaneous References to Future Events. 339
In any case the original description of the cross and wreath
preceded the dedication of the cross by three months and the
hanging of the wreath by a still longer period, probably nine
months.
This concludes the account of what I prefer to call ' anticipa
tions ' rather than ' prophecies.' Upon their value the reader
must form his own judgment.
I have now accomplished, as well as I can, the task which
I proposed to myself at the beginning of this paper. I have
given an account, as complete as I could make it, of the
automatic phenomena obtained by me in the course of the
four years ending December 31, 1904. Similar phenomena
have continued to occur, and are still occurring, but I have
not found the analytic attitude of mind necessary for the
examination of the phenomena conducive to the receptive and
unpreoccupied condition which seems, generally speaking,
required for their production. There have, therefore, been
several intervals in the years 1905 and 1906 during which I
have not attempted to obtain any automatic writing, but
whenever I have tried the product has been similar and the
results are, as far as a cursory examination enables me to
judge, of the same general type as those here described.
340 Appendix. [PART
APPENDIX.
General Note. In extracts from the script, the actual words of
the script are placed within inverted commas, and all spaces between
words represent similar spacing in the original. Comments, etc.
are printed in italics, those made on the original documents being
within round brackets ( ), and those subsequently added within
square brackets [ ]. Spacing between the letters of a word repre
sents similar spacing in the originals, except in a few cases where
it is used, as indicated by a note, to represent a larger or otherwise
altered handwriting. In some places names or initials have been
changed. Omissions are marked by dots. . . .
SCRIPT OF MARCH, 1901, 1902, 1903, TO ILLUSTRATE DEVELOPMENT,
SEE CH. I., P. 9.
March 5 [1901], 6.15 p.m. no light but fire. The words came as
wholes.
"... counsel gear nen Q save trouble cant keep" (here 1
changed the pencil and held it between my thumb and first finger in
the usual way, not my way) " vely ten yet come nomen et ego cum
multis et omnibus ne tristia munera fiunt nec ipse postridie mor-
genstern opus rosea angelica notabilis semper vivo paullatim et
spice —ter ad mundum qiod ubi que c."
(here the paper was exhausted and I turned the light up, read the
above, and turned over the paper.)
6.30 p.m. " et ego et ego ne tentaveris aerias cunctiter gradu
pone sequens vestigia deum multipliciter tuus est sumptus mihi et
ridens imaginem tui crucis alteram mosse."
(here again I turned up light and read, then went on.)
6.35 p.m. "noli vitare quod ego tibi dicam et semper et ubique
ne semel propositum meum fregeris—mane domi dominio—videas
quem tibi mittam addio— dio dec."
March 6 [1901]. 6.40 p.m. Pencil, same conditions as last.
"caret ipse nec unquam vigebit ur illis monet ne vincam paullo
videndum nodice sed plurimum nescit. a mi messapia in hoc vincite
LIII.] Appendix. 341
signo cur plurima? inquis modeste incipi—(end of sheet) —incipiam
nisi fatigaris vel tuo dicere scribo putasne elicere quod sensu careat
delibando invide tu moneam si fortasse videbis permulta docebo tu,
inquit, sapis, per doctum "
(Here I turned up light and read).
6.45 p.m. "cur talis modis agendum tale? nescio. ubi videris
quod sapiens sciat, lucet. de mane nihil existima cras et fortasse
videbitur. o si sic omnes ! quid tu ? ego nequeo velim autem
o quam velim ! deus te - - bonus a."
March 8 [1901]. 11 p.m. firelight, eyes shut.
" veni hodierno nondum parata eras muli um perdocebo si
modo patientiare vento et undis sequitur , ne pone mourn
stilum et alter alterum ubi nunc est gloria mundi obiit a sine te fac
quaeras querimonium obsolevisti solacium donavisti etsi tu nescias
quid ille meminisceris et consolaris quid dicam consolationem spera-
visti et exegisti monumentum mei novas res et insolitas mihi
iucundissimas horresco referens quid multa—nec tibi—sed ceteris
species et imago venerabiles - - satis speranti nee opinor admodum
vale quondam ulterior veniet pars tua et praevalebit ultima
ratio tibi — cum silentio finis."
March 9 [1901]. 10.45 p.m. quite in the dark.
" dimtrium malle quam sibimet ipse potissimum non omnis
moriar superne quicquam etsi amavisti nulliua spei captus rescindas
nullas res mortalium aegras neglegendum est vel inferas vel
superas melius non nihil per me attinet color est iustus vere similis
etiam veritas. o dic mihi quid velis nunciam et credo condisci-
plinam patefecisti quam mallem tibi etsi necopinanti surrepere
olim quando incipiat laus magna cum dominatione. nunc servitorem
domino servare tempus fac valeas quantum mutatus ab
illo o tempora mihi manicipium debuisti vale etiamnunc opto
signifer signum ponit."
March 11 [1901]. 6.30 p.m. in dark.
" velim magnopere quamvis multum desit sapientiae afferam digni-
tationem nisi desipientis in loco manu capio quod voluisti obsolevit
iam ista oratio mun dum sprevisti inane errabundus aspernans
declina fata aspera iam desinite, precor, ne adsis rpair^ij illae quam
scimus multiplex flora carpitur iliac o quam iuventibus suave
olens roscidus humor super genas caelicolis et infra ingens — —
nec sine stupore — comter adscistando tu quoque carpe non iter
342 Appendix. [PART
nec floras verba autem ipsa tenti texiculae tegiculae o stultiloquor
— verb. sap. ."
March 12 [1901]. 11.15 p.m. in dark.
" attendite nunc quid asperiam tibi omine magno nec mihi venienti
adsonat glebis adscripta per dulcia resonantis* chorea . mox et tu
audies videndum et parandum nec sine officina paupertas
egestate confirmata mansit quis adest o loquere vocabulis con-
cinnatis dehiscens quod modulor magica salutatio abundat grave-
virens cum maiestate splendidior vitro o fons possumne ante
omnes lag lacuna de atilo nihil quod attinet modo cecini carmen
ineluctabile auribus tuis satis vocanti plurimum in dies cras
ingens iterabimus aequor—vale ter vale."
* [Note to above. Resonantia was written, but below the last two
letters 'is' is written, suggesting the correction 'resonantis' for
' resonantia.']
March 14 [1901] ended 6.45 [p.m.] firelight.
" consolator dux fidei nee unquam caret quotiens discerpitur
placetne ? simillime necdum violentior undis quam tibi quam mihi
desine querela mecum cur properastn o fortunate mens et opifex
carmentalis invocat quid enim 1 insula tegit infulam vittas
o memor sis—/uwv frra; hieroglypheina sane marmario glyptato non
sine caelato quid dicam stellate cultellario. videsne ? tandem, habes
tota quod mente petisti—invidia caret—spoliaris omnino reddere si
non tibi possim aspetta ! dulcissime sonat imago clara pulsanti
pedetemptin—quam bene feci illud.—tu respondeas testudine eburneo
plectas chordas quid multa ? hactenus. moramur nisi quem infitias.
magichordus ita plane—xxx ."
(Here the sheet ended. I turned up light and read. Then put out
light and [held] letter in left hand.)
6.45 p.m. " detegi panopticon sphaerae identidem magniloquens
inquit, componere ausus. num deus adest musam taciito calet
adhuc calorem semper."
(here interrupted)
March 15 [1901] ends 6.20 [p.m.]
"commendatio unica moderatione neninem laedit. quare
resignas speciosa recinet lex talionis ulsciscendi protervam nodulo
invicem noris sed mirabilis sequitur occupatio. biblion tibi opse-
quor dei gratia impigre confutaris massica nec sine venustate sperne
elegos quos audax composui nescio qua dulcedine captus. alter
LIU.] Appendix.
alterum ego te si modo cont consenseris optimo dierum procedas
elusione nexis spargedulis etsi infinitis. nunc tibi redditae partes
quoad eliciet mens tua sensus. velle posse si mihi tibi etiam.
capisco auribus puris Pollux Cappa docus ponet tigillura."
March 15 [1901] ends 6.45 [p.m. holding] letter.
" gravis dolor adopertus micat prolusione magna nee capax ero
tibi multa provicendo docere ubi quando salva ratio ibi et pro-
positum exequere. ne fallar avenam sume gratulatione compellans
omnes illos Terpsichoreae greges animosas scribendo consequere vel
ponere stilum aequom nihil ad rem exspectas modo—si nunc,
semper . spes ultima caritate maior per modum grandinis
attrectans suavitatem mente non nulli percalescat - - ego tibi
— postea cetera
Janu Janitor
Janifer
nexi-t-i dem—"
March 17 [1901] 11.58 a.m. finished.
" quid magis difficile nedum impossible nisi tu etiam velis. hodie
possum nee sine dubio. fac scribas. Dianae sumus in fide ; iterum
notare manu mittere quod diu desidero alioquin negas disce disce
modo tibi perperam invideo ausus sum commendare res prospere
eveniet post incommoda stupefacta saepen—multimodis rerum ima-
ginibus. nondum infiteor . a.d. XII —vig. quarta—horam bene
notavi ; recordamini. littera scripta manet."
March 19 [1901] 6.45 p.m. ends.
"sine marte capitolium manumittas exemplum magnum
terebinthiaco pulsu circumspice ne titubes coucidere perfacile—
quid (pps. quia) attendes tecum sum in praesenti et semper—audisne
quem tibi dictito commentionem tegulas volui olim. helenaptolis.
modo sapies de hibisco pertinens quarta spicula sicine ambo 1 quid
magis—inter cesseris non nunquam caedendo non ultra vires—o
utinam sigillas posue—(here end of line)—uerim ante hoc—pedibus
tuis non sine dolore— Carcerino apte XII—insuper quis 1 nescio."
March 21 [1901] 11 p.m.
" num plurimis manifesta es nucibus molinarios subsidia quidem
sine invito te velim dicere tu autem negas. o nexere si
nequis pertinax scribas ornne scitum perpende mox adveniet lux
,chalcidica inviolabilis alteruter adsciscans optabit ne falle
rogatri cem admoneto ne precaris sine fiat sine te magister
344 Appendix. [PART
optimus nam ipse dixit si quid velis non impedio caelitibus
interest gemmas accumulare magno sumptu sempervirenti imagine
roris. urceola apta potenti capax medeolae (or mediolae)
vesania m imputat roga, roga, inquit ne sperne chordas tibicinis
puri. mosse aliunde alioquin iuvare. sapisne o mora ingrata tibi
canam—. —
March 25 [1901] 11.5 a.m.
" Communicatio prosit necubiae necopinato ubi valetudo desit
modulatione grammatica. Bilingua concursatio urbina nexit
fratres sabinos. matertera fidelis commensis mihi corripuit "
(interrupted) "difiScile et disputabile. ne feceris. exspecta- "
March 27 [1901] 10.55 a.m.
"moneta ne adiuveris commentatorem sequipedalem . o utinam
semper tali modo sumpseris melos chardon \opSdv quem [pps.
quum] tibi vocaverim electryosuuen nempe bene sensisti ? nam
optimo semper opifici convolutavi illud. adsurgam inquit, rectis
dirigens monitis "—[interrupted]—" saepe toto corpore adiutans
mollivit difficultatem nodulis flexidulis inhaerens lectulo quid
morar 1 [or morer] cur istaec ? excipe modo interpretatio postea
sesquipedalia verba sic semper sic ubique num postmodo aliter I
fac roges. petorrita pro carroni. saepe currus deorum. non sine
Pallados alite. J Tuus denique nomen adposui. interpretatio tua.
nunc.
March 29 [1901] 10.55 a.m.
" ne communicaveris ditenti sciolae sciolistae quod tibi commenda-
verim dissociabile semper quod fecisti emendare rugis negandis
nexere nexere semper aurea roscidula sempervirenti * imagine
poscitur num credibile ? fac sodes optimum illud o si audisti !
graece loquitur emptor redemptor cruciferens scarsidulo dolore
reputans cosmia erga peremptio optima ne dubitaris modulatione
canifero poetae arguti notare horam semper, sine dubio. horas pone
sex postea quattuor et idies identidem computa. ibi vigila ne dicam
Lin.J Appendix. 345
ora pro nobis. /*—ni facito non omnes possumus omnia spes
permanet KOO-/J.OV tenuis pervolatibilis unica aptat t multi-
ponens odoratam luminis florem caelestis nee abest 007*1j sapienti
prosit advenae satis. in proximum."
[Notes to above :
* Under the last two letters of ' sempervirenti ' is written ' —te.'
t The lines are irregular and the exact order of the words uncertain.]
March 30 [1901] 10.30 a.m.
" quot rhetores tot sententiae. velle ubere ipse potius odi
potentis /iovreis nuncupare iam alii mirabili consuetudine
molina farris trutinam speculor constanter tibi provocations
si luxerit bene, post modo vacatio argumentum nullius pro-
positum nec utile cuivis detergere omnino fortuis qui possim ?
adiuta modo coniunctio optima cogere fallit opinor in herba
cur non attendis 1 meam defungor partem tibi tibi nunc vias
grassulator petivit carnificem auribus istis non comprensus fabulam.
interpretatio nulla iam satis."
[Illegible single letters.]
March 31 [1901] 4.10 p.m.
" movissem nisi et tu jurasses olim vivax semper et fortasse
alius praecox olea baccis Sabinis ponetur dis adiuvantibus
strati de odorato flore lectuli Cantorem movere dulci-
sonanti plektro resonantis cantus sume sume auream Ij'ram fasciculi.
Dovinantis sub imagine ripae ciAis ftaivovri Dominus praevalebit
sine risu plectant sapores nisu maiore cur rident sororesf
Aesopi irapa Ka.\dfiovs. superponenti TWO. rurlv omnia plana.
ambages desunt dva/3aiveiv necesse nec sine ambitu. Koc si tu
comprenseris bene Fidelis esto . —' finis coronat opus
[Attempts at signature]
experto crede requiescat. Remember A-V-E . vale."
March 2 [1902].
" Fortunati ambo ! quos si adtrectes non utique
dubitare possis quin post jrvAas daviiroio mliora attingere
(interrupted) cur etiam haesitas ? pone dubium, tunc necopinans
veritatem manu comprehendere poteris. Supellectilem ero cedo. nee
inutiles res pro bonis aestima. Leniter eundo semper in finem.
Cursitor haeret.
[Attempts at signatures.]
346 Appendix. [PART
1234 and then again—four and four and pause—and then
\/°
repeat /, do you see it now?
I have tried to tell you this before,
acquiret vires eundo.
It seems so plain to me but you do
not see. Try again later."
March 10, 1902.
" Pen nsylvania . not on this account V^^ Not
to-day for you, but for others great success—and proof triumphant.
Mrs. Forbes has heard, must have heard by now. There is a
letter for you gone astray—it will arrive—remember this date. I
have told her of the letter, the strayed letter. Your husband's
cocks have gone away, but I will tell more later. It is not
Allcock nor all cocks, but analogous. the cock is a symbol, and
suggests the right name. But I do not know all and you see
even less than I tell you. It all belongs to old days, and his
father would have understood before you. Try some one else—
there is a woman alive who understands, besides the dead. What
has the sea shore to do here ? pebbles on the beach. Ask him that."
[Signatures.-]
March 11, 1902.
"Panis et circenses
«J
Nothing to-day. wait for Hodgson's next letter that will make
things clearer. ..."
LIII.] Appendix. 347
March 12, 1902.
[draiwnqs] moulding round the panel It is of painted
wood—the left hand side is what I see. it is indistinct on the
right I |rr=^.*~> Then there is also a round looking glass with
a black frame and artificial light, yellower than day and reflected
in the glass. But I cannot see the room there is some one
in the room, two people, a man and a woman standing up—
yellow letters, old, from a cabinet belong—not his to her but
they talk of them. I cannot see this, but I hear it. The message
is important but you have not read it right. It has to do with
the cabinet and the old letters,—a square folded one, held in the
hand, not a separate envelope, but all folded together. I cant tell
you more. Go on again later."
[sword and palm.]
March 14, 1902.
" Heri non voluisti cur ? et ego, vide quam difficile inter
haesitationes praelucet veritas. Omnia post pone cum ego tibi signum
dedero. Nunc incumbe bacillo. Hodgson wrote the word to you—
it will arrive before a week is out. You are to tell her and she
will do it. Draw the frame—and I will put the picture in it.
roses or pinks—and a white veil over the head, can you not see ?
quid refringas ? lenta saepe
[three drawings of three-petalled flower on stalk.]
keep this though it is not quite what I meant.
but it will give the hint when your letter comes—-next week. Two
events next week. Hodgson's letter before the other—the other is
Helen's not yours. Write each day again to-night, be sure."
March 15, 1902.
" Mcercure festinatio sine cura multum impedit alia manus iam
litteras descripsit. sinite manu tua uti dum modo veripertinentia
nuntiet. fac, audito si quis intellegere haec vult. To night it is
over nothing further for some days, post multas refutationes et
ambages nonnullas e profundis emergit veritas ipsa quam si surripere
potes, omnia plana fiunt. But tonight—the hand shakes not yours
but anothers."
[Signatures, illegible.]
348 Appendix. [PART
March 19, 1902.
"Many harvests go to the fulfilment of the crop of promise
2'vva.pfji6£fi /Aovov TO crvvap^ocnov Kauirep ov crv/i/3aAoi/. ovSe yap
avfv <rvvdfTOV Tiros evpvdfiov TO TTO.V. TI &rj o-Toi^a^eis ; 8f\ov pS.\\ov o
TI av ptyfl TO VOOV/KVOV. Soi yap ovv KOI aAAois AeXeKTai SIJTU—
Now. listen. Dover has. been given you long ago. Dover court
I think. There is a woman there who belongs to an earlier story,—
a story not yours. Emmie is the name. She has a boy and some
one knows them both. There are just those two. the boy is young
—she is sad—I want a message given to Emmie and the boy
Frank. It is from Harry—on the sea tonight To-morrow or next
day you can find out my ship—tossing on the sea to-night. Emmie
has not forgotten—that makes it easier for me to night. K a r r y.
Tell her from me Harry thinks of her wait for the
other name Flammantia mcenia mundi gives you the
clue. The flame goes up to the night and the
stars are veiled in the smoke of it. Look in
the paper for three days. Then you will believe."
[Attempts at signatures.]
[Note to above: The spaced letters represent a handwriting differing
from my normal hand.]
March 25, 1902.
" Quam multa invenies non sine odorificato splendore In
locked cupboards within are the treasures not to be lightly won.
The message has been sent to you—it is not as clear as you thought.
But it is true and you will understand. . . . The interpretation
was surely clear though not pleasing— but it is hard to believe.
Three golden apples—no more upon the tree.
The stick was not hers but she carries it. let
us keep it. Dreams are not true but you have glimpses in sleep."
[Signature illegible.]
March 26, 1902.
" Hence all you vain delights—live laborious days. Not yet is
the fulness of time—reaping follows the full sheaves. Nesta and
Trenery this is a new point—not known to you. The message will
be understood by others—ivy leaf pattern and stone walls.
on a summer evening long ago. The sun is setting long beams
aslant, across the golden corn. Then the poem was written—he
will remember— There is none like her, none, among the garnered
sheaves that caught the light of the flooded heavens. But you
un.] Appendix. 349
do not understand—some of this is right but not all—Great
Crosby is a name that was wanted—and Marston. Everard Marston
I think. Someone will help you with that name, note it down.
Write again soon it gets easier . . . Yours as you know."
March 27, 1902.
" Helen's Wedding March will be played before the year is
out—you do not understand, but write it all the same. Ever
lasting snows and birds of prey gathered together
do you not see whose hand this is? Crispin
Crisp ian was right you will see some day Your
husband's thought was good but not complete.
The old man in white was the best part of it but I have not
been able to finish that and now it has all gone away. Put it
aside it will return some day.
a long grey wall with ivy tumbling over — and grass
growing to the foot of it. there are trees—a clump to the
left and the air is cold, the people are all this side of the wall,
on a road outside, there has been an accident, bicycle I think,
there are wheels in the road, and a little group round someone—
a girl—on the ground. It is in the north—three people I think—
and they pick up the girl—she is hurt. I see a horse now—a little
brown pony's head. That is all."
[Note to above : The spaced words are in a different and somewhat larger
hand.]
March 31, 1902.
"Tetigisti heri epistolam expecta modo necnon breviter
inclinatam—declinatam potius—consuetudinem postpone Maius in
dies opus non tuum Non possum plurima tecum iam exponere. But
others can—go on writing. Later days will help—in May and again
after seven weeks and days on an evening suddenly you will see—
a column of light and the writing runs spirally round it.
The red postbox was in a birds eye view—last night. 36 was
the number 6x6 and the VI ^Eneid—look at the line No. xxxvi—
r~
.&
now he takes the letters out
350 Appendix. [PART
and he gets on a bicycle there will be 3 by one delivery—so you
will know that this is true. I ' 1 f"*| ]","] one longer the
others square. and one of them is white the others coloured.
Head the book and find the Hue I tell you about
I told you last night in sleep someone else helped
you to know what I mean t."
[Note to above : The spaced words are in a different and somewhat larger
hand.]
March 1, 1903.
"Sister t anna cuspide fracta.
Anna soror dictis tum talibus infert.
non sic semper olim. non tam bene talia dicta
saepe pernumero non sic tua postea verba
omnibus usque patent nee non memorabilie visum
Ante oculos . largas ad luminis oras
ment' animamque capit. quae nunquam tale videret
Accipe tu gremio post congrediens cave sensum.
Satis pro hodierno die feci—tua nunc pars interpretare exponere,.
capere in medullis—non usque ad hoc facta. Desine in praesenti—
resume silum pan cis abhinc horis. non est possibilei quominus
mentem vel potius assensionem dutius adhibeas. Ex tenebris fiet
lux."
March 3, 1903.
" Battye and Cleeve sant
fiSpiav o TL av <rol dvo><£eXes <fMVrjrai, ^/iiTC\evTov TO \prj/ia ovSf
py.&iia'; SiareXeiTai aXAa <rvv <TKOTTIJ as <rvvf<riv f\.6ois— Sdy/uara
evrjv— SiSacr/caAia /cai avTO/uara irapa Niyi<£v>f TTa^avoias
[drawing] is the shape [drawing] stamped OR
brown leather the volume is thick
lies on a table (page turned)
a glass with flowers is near—& the window is open. They are on
a table—I can see them quite plainly now. a watch ticks near, the
room is upstairs—the branches of a tree are near—a portrait hangs
on the wall—a slim neck and something yellow in the dress—ear
rings—and a band in the hair—a very long neck."
LIII.] Appendix. 351
March 7, 1903.
"Iliaco carmine responsum dedi illi quod semper postulas—Men-
tionem iam ante feci huius loci—cur non invenire potes ? O.KTTj
Kvavfrj—mare glaucum spumantibus equis insuper deus vehitur—
nihilomagis rota magistri tempus in partes aequas dividit. primo
splendidior, postremo multi sonans voce angelica, postea
autem vor]Ty i-e Kal voipy magis uteris. Num credibilius illid,
o numquam mihi fidem praebens ! Temptanti difficilia, manum
attendere debeas —manum amicam usque ad oram illam. VVKTE/JOS
1jSrj 6Sos."
March 11, 1903.
Kal 8eKarfj r]pepp wsavrws yap Kal <rv Kal aAAos eis
f\6oiTf av o/ipa.Ti \prj<rGai,. on that day watch, not
alone, when the vision comes note the day and count from now.
Mrs. Forbes has got the other word—and will send it—not
Symposium, but it helps and is clear. I don't think she knows
it is for you—but you will understand.
[unintelligible scribbles.]
(I fell fast asleep.)
March 15, 1903.
[scribbles] " Th he i end i is not yet all must go over. 2 is the first
to be recognised but there are others. Write yourself mow Otranto
pice cur non cetera ? quia non comprehendit ilia nostr a fac
quiescat. Signum illud pro bono, sed non omne. Camilla inest.
Camilla in volumine—directione plagae Umbrosa—iam tibi hactenus
dixi—C a m e 1 o t or Cameleon—Camus no there is an ilia or ella
somewhere goon (end of page) Cameri fortes Camenifer
does that look right ?
But Hodgson would understand much that you writ e—
he must see i t—r emember tha t—a sk Lodge what he
thinks. This is important. Mrs. Forbes is slow but
she has something which you have not seen. There
is much in yours which you do not understand.
Hodgson should see i t—a sk about thi s—
write this week and then ask Mrs.
Forbes for hers."
[Note to above : Wmds spaced are in a larger hand.]
352 Appendix. [PART
March 17, 1903.
" Polycept—Two high windows. with dark curtains—looking on
a street—and a table with a red cloth. The writing table is in
that roo(m) & the key in its drawer would fit. Exacerbat
repetitio principii—cape clavem—Supellectilem frange si aliter non
posses.
The word is C a 1 d i o n a more like that. Capella Aurigae
seems much nearer.
Find what constellation is marked with y a little italic letter 7
Ask Hodgson too—"
(Signature illegible.]
March 19, 1903.
" Nundinae—computa—tunc expecta lucem. caminife deus iam
exegit mandatum ab alio impositum. Miraculo censere
qui non sapientia utuntur— deh ! semiermis iacet. arripe !
arreptum super et insuper manu prendere—sic in melius attinges.
spoliare 6rjKas illas. quas cognovisti spolia opima illaec—quibus
amor illis Soy/wi— in fine C a r i t a s—
4-
<Tf\/ia cre/ivov Saipoviav—seditibus insuper sendentesibus (page
turned)
iam talia antehac in libro habuisti.
de minimis non curat lex.
March 20, 1903. .
"Never when the wind blows from out of the East but on
the Western breeze it comes. with sound of bells and music heard
afar. Ask about this.
LIII.] Appendix. 353
Listen now She tells the rest. they listen.
Ask at Smithfield for the name. You do not know—Portals
or Portalis—
Now something else. You must find that drawer & get the key.
then things will be plain. There are papers inside and you
will not find mine at once, you must look for it The seal is
quite irregular—ragged in outline
Fastiduca and another Reckon the days
and wait. -"
March 26, 1903.
" Problemata nuncupare airo$ocrK«v. concrepat exercent * in-
cinenter sufficit. /ierd deov Dia &TUV ravra TTOIOVO-O. d<f>e\eis KOI
<ravTrjv KCU aAAovs—What is the message 1 Write.
The device on the seal is distinctive—get that first [drauring of
oval seal] four letters AS 7jp like that, pairs [scrawls] No you
don't understand. It is on the seal, an oval shaped seal, with
four letters on it—Roma or amor perhaps—not a figure but a
word with a meaning. Inside is the sentence you know—but
it is not in Greek—it is in English letters— It is the word
of the simposium—and the greatest of these is Charity is like
it—but the word is Love— Crosst amor."
[* Note : This word is almost illegible.]
March 27, 1903.
" Espahan cannot wait for tomorrow's effort say now she
must do it.
The name is not right. Wilbrahan—no Westbathen
cessere venti inhiat ingens rima per illam introrsum videre poteris si
caput declinas En ! lux argenteus omnia pervadit vario colore
variisque odoribus. safrano croceoque flore—purpureo roseoque
colore, unda super undam defluat—omnia splendent—in medio illos
cernere debeas quos tibi antehac sedentes descripsi. The heart of them
is ruddy gold and a flame goes up from the midst—but a flame that
flickers not, but shines radiant lucid tela diei are not so bright.
This is clear clearer than K/jvo-raXAoTDj/cToi jnjycu. That ought to
help. It belongs to the a«-r^ Kvavei] that I gave you before."
354 Appendix. [PART
DATES OF WRITINGS.
1901. Days.
March: 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, 15, 17, 19, 21, 25,
27, 29, 30, 31 = 16
April: 3, 7, 8, 10, 14, 16, 19, 20, 22, 24, 27 = 11
May: 1, 3, 8, 11, 18, 23, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31 = 11
June : 3, 16, 23, 27, 30 =5
July : 4, 8, 17, 23, 30, 31 =6
August: 6, 7, 10, 13, 16, 20, 23, 28, 29 =9
September: 2, 4, 4, 7, 9, 12, 14, 18, 20, 28 = 10
October: 6, 12, 17, 26, 29 =5
November: 1, 4, 7, 13, 22, 25, 27 =7
December: 5, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22= H
91
1902. —
January: 4, 8, 11, 13, 17, 29, 31, 31 =8
February: 3, 10, 13, 18, 21, 27 =6
March: 2, 10, 11, 12, 14, 14, 19, 25, 26, 27, 31 = 11
April: 2, 14, 24 =3
May: 12, 13, 16, 18, 25, 31 =6
June : 7, 21, 24, 24, 27, 29 =6
July: 1, 7, 13, 18, 21, 23 =6
August: 1, 25, 26, 26 =4
September: 6, 17, 24, 27, 28 =5
October: 9, 14, 15, 21, 25, 27, 31 =7
November: 3, 4, 5, 7, 11, 17, 18, 24, 26, 28 =10
December: 3, 4, 9, 9, 14, 19, 19, 26 = _8
80
1903. —
January: 14, 15, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30, 31= 11
February: 2, 9, 12, 13, 16, 20, 22, 23 =8
March: 1, 3, 7, 11, 15, 17, 19, 20, 26, 27 = 10
April: 2, 9, 10, 17, 22, 24, 26, 27, 30 =9
May: 13, 27, 29 =3
June: 9, 14, 19, 21, 24, 29, 30 =7
July: 3, 5, 6, 17, 19, 21, 31 =7
August: 2, 8, 13, 18, 22, 26, 31 =7
September : 9, 17, 22, 27 =4
October: 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 12, 19, 21, 22, 23, 30 = 12
November: 17, 18, 23 =3
December : 5, 7, 25, 26, 27. 29 =6
87
nil.] Appendix. 355
1904. Days.
January: 1, 9, 17, 21, 25, 29 = 6
February : 1, 2, 5, 6, 9, 14 =6
March : = 0
April: 10, 27 =2
May: 5, 11, 13, 14, 25, 26 =6
June: 5, 8, 10, 24 . =4
July: 3, 13, 15, 18 =4
August : 10, 14, 21 =3
September: 18, 21 =2
October: 3, 12, 16, 21, 22 =5
November: 18, 23, 25, 30 =4
December: 4, 6, 21, 23, 28, 30 =6
48
Total 306. —
EXTRACT FROM SCRIPT TO ILLUSTRATE DIFFICULTY IN RECOLLECTING
WHAT HAS BEEN PRODUCED; SEE CH. I., P. 12.
Aug. 25, 1902. 11 p.m. (in bed).
" quantula pars rogationis meae in mianu tua manet ! tu modo
resilicas nempe sen sensisti illud? ne spreveris contemplationem
illam. non enim nisi contemplatione in regnum veritatis venies.
Forest and firs—and a mossgrown tree trunk, she sits upon it
and the children play—two of them, a girl and a younger boy. It
is a German speaking country—hill beyond hill. Clementine—that
came to you before—Romanzero and Nicholas is the boy's name.
It is the youngest who has died. The blue beads will help to
find them—ask for those, nothing else. Hodgetts is another name—
wait till someone tells you what that is—
Write for me to morrow. COY1-o-3y«> ^^^
[Note. When I read this over I saw at once that it purported to be an
attempt to tell the story of some lost children of whom I had heard
shortly before this date. There were three children supposed to be, with
their father and grandmother, but a sensitive who had been consulted
had said that one child had died. But not the faintest trace of any
allusion to this story remained in my conscious mind, when I tried
to remember what the script had written.}
856 Appendix. [PART
EXTRACTS FROM SCRIPT TO ILLUSTRATE CH. II., P. 22.
Script of September 20, 1901.
" Designate iam dudum volui actorem illius non meorum verborum,
illius, dicere velim qui de ordine loquatur. Doctor est indoctus
tamen litteris humanioribus—fac roges A.W.V. si hoc non verum
sit. Pybus inest vocabulo—TO. Se cUAa non bene sapis etsi multa
recte interpretare potes—de horto aliquid et tamen deest quoddam—
de cultello bene imbuisti mentem. Sed impigre consequi vestigia
prodest. Mary does not know about the knife—nor the inscription.
The Balfours or Mrs. Sidgwick perhaps would—but your husband
could tell you all—Ask Mrs. Forbes if she has a message for you
—something about G i m a or some such word. Gima dion looks
the length, yep^ Aifo
The bird is nothing put it away. I want to say the word.
Gem astrion—or Gennadzeron—one single long word. Ask
Lodge if he knows what I mean. Gennisa-hedro n—I cant
get it—Genny is sad —he drown
Non possum plurima hodie—sed in dies facilius— ars scribendi
de integro adipiscenda est. redintegratio optima. Num iSnaTuc&i/ «
posui 1 Scit ille et cognoscet. Vale."
LIST OF APHORISMS CONTAINED IN SCRIPT, SEE CH. III., P. 49.
1. April 14, 1901. "margaritae vecrlv tibi meae forsitan sine
pratio."
2. May 23, 1901. "Accomplishment is better than success."
3. May 23, 1901. "Manifold uses are there for us all."
4. Aug. 10, 1901. "Throw the stone further—the water is too
shallow here."
5. Sept. 7, 1901. "Too many swallows and the summer is
spoilt."
6. Nov. 4, 1901. "Spinning tales is easy but right is harder."
7. Jan. 8, 1902. "Never try with spun thread of your own
fashioning to interpret the divine—spindle.
Lachesis will clip."
8. Jan. 11, 1902. "Faith than Hope greater removes moun
tains."
9. Feb. 27, 1902. "To obey is better than sacrifice." (See also
quotations.)
10. March 19, 1902. "Many harvests go to the fulfilment of the
crop of promise."
LIU.] Appendix. 357
11. March 25, 1902. "In locked cupboards within are the treasures
not to be lightly won."
12. March 26, 1902. "Not yet is the fullness of time—reaping
follows the full sheaves."
13. Sept. 6, 1902. "Dubium omne dubium pro ignoto."
14. Oct. 9, 1902. "Dreamers see most of the truth—in golden
visions of the dawn."
15. Dec. 4, 1902. "Manifold uses are there for us all. look
back at that." (See above, No. 3.)
16. Jan. 14, 1903. "omne ignotum pro dubio—in his atque in
omnibus rebus."
LIST OF QUOTATIONS IN SCRIPT TO ILLUSTRATE CH. III., P. 49.
Where the quotation is inexact, the original is given.
1. March 6, 1901. "in hoc vincite signo." Constantine's dream.
2. March 6, 1901. "o si sic omnes!"
3. March 8, 1901. "ubi nunc est gloria mundi."
4. March 9, 1901. "non omnis moriar." Horace, Odes, III.
30. 6.
5. March 9, 1901. "quantum mutatus ab illo." Virgil, Aen.
II. 274.
6. March 11, 1901. "tu quoque carpe non iter nee flores verba
autem ipsa."
Hor. Sat. I. 5. 95 : "carpentes . . . iter."
Ovid, Met. 10. 85: "carpere flores."
7. March 13, 1901. " splendidior vitro o fons." Hor. Od. III. 13. 1.
8. March 14, 1901. "tandem habes tota quod mente petisti."
Virgil, Aen. IV. 100.
9. March 14, 1901. " violentior undis." Hor. Od. I. 2. 14. "vio-
lenter undis."
10. March 15, 1901. "lex talionis."
11. March 15, 1901. "optimo dierum." Cat. 14. 15. (See below,
No. 16.)
12. March 17, 1901. "Dianae sumus in fide." Cat. 34. 1.
13. March 17, 1901. "littera scripta manet."
14. March 29, 1901. "ora pro nobis."
15. March 31, 1901. "experto crede."
16. April 3, 1901. "optimo dierum." Cat. 14. 15. (See above,
No. 11.)
17. April 8, 1901. "Finis coronat opus."
358 Appendix. [PART
18. April 14, 1901. "semper eadem."
19. April 20, 1901. "non sine vulture" (See below, No. 26).
20. April 22, 1901. "multum in parvo."
21. April 22, 1901. "Ars est celare artem."
22. April 24, 1901. "nox humida caelo." Virgil, Aen. II. 8.
23. May 28, 1901. "Tu quoque in parvo fidelis." See S. Luke,
19. 17.
24. May 28, 1901. "Peace not a sword." See S. Matt. 10. 34.
25. May 31, 1901. "trivias et compita viarum." Cic. Agr. I. 3:
"in triviis aut in compitis."
26. June 3, 1901. "nullum sine vulture in Apulo." Hor. Od.
III. 4. 9. (See above, No. 19.)
27. June 23, 1901. "Tennyson's line in threes Life, Life, and life
or something like it,—the one about the
foolish virgins Late late too late, ye cannot
enter in." Tennyson, Guinevere : " Late
late so late but we can enter still.—Too
late too late ye cannot enter now."
28. Aug. 7, 1901. "vile potabis." Hor. Od. I. 20. 1.
29. Sept. 14, 1901. "palely loitering." Keats, Belle dame sans
merci.
30. Oct. 29, 1901. "curridenda poemata mavis?" Juv. Sat. X.
124: "r. p. malo."
31. Nov. 22, 1901. "de re rustica." Name of books by Cato,
Varro, and Columella.
32. Dec. 5, 1901. " Kirkward shall carry me. goon. not Helen
but another and not Scotch." Ballad :
Helen of Kirkconnell.
33. Dec. 12, 1901. " It is like the dvapid^Tbv •ye\a.o-fiM but another
meaning." Aesch. Pr. F. 90. " dvrjpidfj.ov y."
34. Dec. 18, 1901. "Come unto these yellow sands." Shake
speare, Tempest, I. 2.
35. Jan. 13, 1902. "Quid fremuerunt gentes? gentes seems
right." Psalm 2: "quare f.g."
36. Jan. 29, 1902. "Romanam condere gentem," Virgil, Aen.
VI. 133.
37. Feb. 21, 1902. "sic itur ad astra." Virgil, Aen. IX. 641.
38. Feb. 27, 1902. "To obey is better than sacrifice." I. Sam.
xv. 22.
39. March 2, 1902. "Fortunati ambo ! " Virgil, Aen. IX. 446.
40. March 2, 1902. " acquiret vires eundo." Virgil, Aen. IV. 175.
LIII.] Appendix. 359
41. March 11, 1902. "Panis et circenses." Juv. Sat. X. 81:
"Panem et c."
42. March 19, 1902. " Flammantia moenia mundi gives you the
clue." Lucr. I. 73.
43. March 26, 1902. "Hence all you vain delights!—live laborious
days."
1. Fletcher, Nice Valour.
2. Milton, Lycidas, 72: "to scorn delights
and live laborious days."
44. March 26, 1902. "There is none like her none." Tennyson,
Maud, 18. 1. 2.
45. May 13, 1902. " Date lilia Romae." Virgil, Aen. VI. 883.
46. May 18, 1902. "The sweetest flower that blows." Shelley,
Sensitive Plant, s. f. for scent t. b.
Wordsworth, Ode on Immortality, "meanest
f. t. b."
47. June 27, 1902. " Veni creator were the words." Latin hymn.
48. Aug. 1, 1902. "Par nobile fratrum." Hor. Sat. II. 3. 243.
49. Sept. 27, 1902. "That old man eloquent." Milton, Sonnet X.
50. Oct. 9, 1902. "To the dark tower came who 1 ask him who ?
and where?" (1) Shakespeare, King Lear,
III. 4.
(2) Browning, Childe Roland.
51. Oct. 15, 1902. "irav fnol o-wapfiofa." Marcus Aurelius, Med.
IV. 23.
52. Nov. 11, 1902. "Lux in tenebris et in terra pax."
53. Jan. 18, 1903. "Come unto me and I will give you rest."
S. Matt. 11. 28.
54. Jan. 18, 1903. "Vivida vis animai." Lucr. I. 72: "v. v.
animi."
55. Jan. 18, 1903. "lampada tradunt." Lucr. II. 79.
56. Jan. 23, 1903. "The music of tke spheres." See Milton,
Arcades, 63 to 67 and elsewhere.
57. Feb. 2, 1903. "Vex not thou the poet's soul." Tennyson;
"poet's mind."
.58. Feb. 9, 1903. "Kustica Phydyle. Hor. Odes, III. 23. 2.
"Phidyle."
59. March 19, 1903. "spolia opima illaec."
60. March 19, 1903. "de minimis non curat lex."
61. March 26, 1903. "And the greatest of these is Charity is like
it." 1. Cor. 13. 13.
360 Appendix. [PAKT
62. April 2, 1903. "Otium cum dignitate—who said that 1" See
Cicero pro Sestio, 45; de Orat. 1. 1. 14; ad
fam. 1, 9, 21.
63. April 17, 1903. "Come* unto these yellow sands. where the
bee sucks." Shakespeare, Temp. I. 2 ; V.
1. (See above, No. 34.)
64. Aug. 22, 1903. "Love is enough, do you remember?" W.
Morris.
65. Aug. 26, 1903. "Exprome Caecubam." Hor. Od. I. 37. 5:
" depromere Caecubum " ;
Hor. Od. III. 28. 2, 3: "prome . . .
Caecubum."
66. Sept. 17, 1903. " Love is enough do you not understand ?"
(See above, No. 64.)
67. Oct. 19, 1903. "And the greatest of these is Charity."
1. Cor. 13. 13. (See above, No. 61.)
68. Oct. 23, 1903. " The stern Lawgiver is not so fair." Words
worth, Ode to Duty.
69. Oct. 23, 1903. "Seek and ye shall." S. Luke, 11, 9; S.
Matt. 7. 7.
70. Dec. 25, 1903. "For the night cometh when no man may
work." S. John, 9. 4.
71. Dec. 27, 1903. "0 that 'twere possible after long grief and
pain." Tennyson, Maud, 2. 4.
72. May 11, 1904. " And the greatest of these three." (See above,
Nos. 61 and 67.)
73. May 14, 1904. "iraa-a. j//i>xi? a6avaTos. They begin the dia
logue." See Plato, Pkaedrus, 245 C.
74. June 24, 1904. "saeva indignatio." Swift's Epitaph.
75. Oct. 21, 1904. "Quis modus . . . Melpomene." Hor. Od. I.
24. 1-3.
In addition to the above there are a few cases where the phraseology
is reminiscent of some well-known passage, as, e.g., on Oct. 9, 1902,
" purple but not fair raiment " ; but where such phrases form part of a
statement, and do not seem to be either recognised as quotations
or reproduced as isolated " tags," they are not included in this list.
LIST OF ASSONANCES IN SCRIPT TO ILLUSTRATE CH. III., P. 56.
1. March 25, 1901. necubiae necopinato.
2. March 31, 1901. ambages desunt dvaftaiveiv necesse nec
sine ambitu.
LIII.] Appendix. 361
3. April 10, 1901. Belua /3«Aos ebanuit.
4. April 22, 1901. £?JT« £rjx01 prodest.
5. April 27, 1901. Fac, Dic, faceto dicto.
6. June 30, 1901. STJAIJTIJJOIOV SeA/rov aSeX^os SeXi^iKg.
7. Sept. 4, 1901. long ago agone.
8. Sept. 12, 1901. Thibet looks like a word, a tie between.
9. Jan. 4, 1902. yewyvis is important not Genesis—and not
Exodus but «£o>So«.
10. April 24, 1902. daffodils . . . Daphne.
LIST OF PUNS IN SCRIPT TO ILLUSTRATE CH. III., P. 59.
1. March 14, 1901. caelato "carved" and "heavenly."
2. April 22, 1901. celare "to conceal" and caelare "to carve."
3. June 3, 1901. scriptura "writing" and "tax on pasturage."
4. July 23, 1901. Lodge, i.e. Sir Oliver, and lodge "to stay at."
5. Aug. 10, 1901. electron "amber" and "electrify."
6. Feb. 10, 1902. obiter "on the way" and "by the way, i.e.
trifling."
7. May 18, 1902. d.yadoSai/i<av in its etymological sense.
8. Feb. 13, 1903. clavis "club" and "key."
9. Jan. 29, 1904. Christopher, XP^TOV 4>"P, the "light of the
Sanctuary " (?), and xp-na"rov <t>°p<*- the
" Bearer (?) of Good."
10. June 10, 1904. dSijAorijs and dSijA&s. perhaps assonance only.
11. Oct. 1 2, 1904. Dorothy " God's gift"; Monica "who lived alone."
VERSE TO ILLUSTRATE CH. III., P. 62.
Specimens of verse composed between sleeping and waking, and written
down on waking, on two or three successive days, about 1888—
1890.
1. So, facing both ways through his life's whole span
He served both God and Mammon,—yet the one
Grudged not his service truly yielded there
Nor that his toil spent at the other's call,—
And, of both lords regretted, wept by all
The tribesmen, full of years and honours, passed
To the great gulf, beyond Time's tideless sea
And all his jerry-builded houses knew
Their lord no more.
362 Appendix. [PART
2. And didst thou . hide thee, like an honest man,
Or face the accuser boldly, like a rogue 1
3. Tell me not now, as in the ancient story,
" The path of duty is the way to glory,"
But tell him once for all, in accents strong,
" Not even three rights can ever make a wrong."
Specimens of automatic verse.
I. Produced alone but while experimenting at the same
time as other automatists:
a. (with Miss A.) 2 pieces.
b. (with Mrs. B.) 2 „
II. With my daughter, using dial machine : 3 „
I. a. With Miss A.
1. Wednesday, July 20, 1904, 2 p.m.
"The Kings and Princes of the Earth The troup of them
went out from the North and the thunder of their following rolled
over the land.
A long low window and a seat in it, blue curtains, and the
light of the sun on the lawn outside. The window is in an angle
and I cannot see the room—
only a plash and plangor of the sea,
and whirr of wings in the deep caves I see
Then flies a white winged bird in the blue sky
or a swift sailing ship goes scudding by,
so flash successive visions in a glass
the while we dreaming scarce behold them pass.
Yet all the while on the awakened soul
each flitting image helps imprint the whole
and superposed on what was first impressed
fills so the outline, colour, and the rest,
and while we only watch the master's hand,
no glimpse vouchsafed us of the building planned,
stone upon stone, the battlements arise,
till the fair fabric flashes in the skies
half unseeing
and, roused from the mechanic gaze
heedless stare,
we see it in the midmost realms of air,
and know the cloud capped towers, the glittering dome
te bo the habitation
the very habitation of our Home ! "
LIIL] Appendix. 363
2. Wed., Aug. 3, 1904, 2 p.m.
"Faquir Faquesan some name like that Let us show it
to her and then she will write it— Stay the pencil and shut your
eyes.
(Here I think I must have slept a minute.)
"To open eyes
The light is dim
In sunny skies
Light of the sun obscures his rays and him
At deepest night
When all is still
Clear on the sight
The sheen of stars faint glimmer over vale and hill
So with the soul
Let mists enclose
Lose self control
The grasp of self and will resolved are the true visions foes
Go to sleep again and wait
The words are lost
Gone from my lips
When longed for most
The heart's most brilliant hopes do suffer worst eclipse."
I. b. With Mrs. B.
1. Nov. 20, 1904.
" The clock has struck the hour an hour ago
No sound was uttered in the silent room
The stars shone brightly and the wind did blow
They all unwitting waited for their doom
Yet louder than the wind that blew that night
And brighter than the stars far piercing ray
The tramp of armies rolling in their might,
The gleam of weapons on the homeward way
So unregarded and unrecognised
The Past tramps by with sullen tread
So unregarded and unrecognised
The unseen future glimmers overhead.
This is not what was intended but it will do if we can get her
to say that it is verse.
364 Appendix. [PART
But can we ?
That is the object of the experiment to-night
And success?
There has been some
Now write this :
Eva Moore."
[Note. 1 had been reading H. S. Merriman's novel " Barlasch of the
Guard"—the account of the retreat from Moscow.]
2. Sunday, Dec. 11, 1904.
(/ had read an article on the Chasm at Delphi in the Hellenic Journal,
and then the Essay on Oracles in "Classical Essays" by F. W.
H. Myers.)
" And so the answer all unwitting came,
That on the altar they should kindle flame,
And as the flame should flicker or grow faint,
So live or die the entranced seeming saint.
The purpose artful, and the method cheap,
And one more falsehood on the quickening heap."
[Note. Notice the repetition of the phrase ' all unwitting ' used in the
verse produced in the preceding experiment three weeks before.]
II. Verse produced automatically by M. de G. V. and H. de G. V. on
a revolving dial machine.
1. Aug. 27, 1904.
(after describing some persons living at Porlock.)
" multa fait rerum et jam multa ibi copia larvae."
2. Sept. 11, 1904.
" Fond were his hopes, no friend was there to aid,
No brave companion of his youthful days,
But underneath the proud usurper's blade,
He fell a victim to mistaken praise.
To him the glory and to us the tears;
What other recompense for service done
Can live theroughout [sic] the long expanse of years,
And a—show to future ages what he won ? "
[Note. After the vowel 'a' there was a longish pause.]
L™.] Appendix. 365
3. %*. 18, 1904.
" Some love the sunny paths of life
And some prefer the shade
Not softer is the troubled strife
For those whose choice is made.
New faces may replace the old,
New friends may claim our love,
But still, if all the truth were told,
The first would be above."
SPECIMENS OF VERSE IN SCRIPT TO ILLUSTRATE CH. III., P. 63.
Facsimile of verse produced in script of April 14, 1901.
I W M . oo>A,4
Greek Verse.
May 16, 1902.
" a/i/3pocm/ re vvg eVi ap/iiarl <f>oiry.."
July 3, 1903.
" dp/ia.Ti apyvpoevrl ireAei . . . iroAAa T'
aeXAa . . . KCU AcuAaTri KapTepcxavrl
ovpavos aXAos."
Aug. 8, 1903.
" peVfjM KpVO-TO.\\lVOV O.TTO <TVp<f>VT<aV
peiOpiav no
<rv/i<t>vriav pei6piav a-n-b
<TTi\/3ei Kf\aivos avroTnjg vSiap del
Stxmjv
Svcnrrj/iia. TraTrraivovcra TOJV
May 13, 1904.
" Kal TO.VT' d/iei^as ovS' l/ceiva A^
May 14, 1904.
"OVK ea-0' OTTOJS fir] ravra rrj
May 26, 1904.
" dAA' oi /Aev fcrp£v otSe Se /cai
T<av irplv Ae \rj0ov
Tiav irplv \e\rj6ov ovSev es TO
roiyap rb irev6eiv ei ris oTSe e
OTTiv /ii) 6eiav \a\ovfievo
flprjKOT<OV.
366 Appendix. [PART
Latin Verse,
Oct. 6, 1901.
"Monet ne dixeris omni quod
tibi confitear soli."
Nov. 3, 1902.
"magno contendis corpore contra."
March 1, 1903. See above, p. 350.
May 29, 1903.
"cantant comatae Silviae concentibus
multimodis avium."
Script of July 15, 1904.
" Audax perpeti sic ad finem ventum est
Semper litora si premia iniqua
Non altum petis* Illius vox clara
Vespera clamat."
[* Note on above: The word "lam" seems to have been interpolated at
this point and there is an illegible word immediately above the word
"clara."]
LIST OF SUPPOSED CONVERSATIONS IN THE SCRIPT AS DESCRIBED
IN CH. IV., P. 68.
Note: Words spaced are written in a larger hand.
(1) March 30, 1901. "Quot rhetores tot seutentiae."
(2) April 3, 1901. "velle aut posse si idem bene tu autem
nescis ego non possum in tanta spe omnium 0 p i n o r
opinio = So£a semper post ponis quod dicere velim tuo fronti o
nimis rogans ! Cur non fasciculo omnia superponens veritatem
decernis ? F e c i."
(3) August 7, 1901. "This is something new—perhaps a test
—I don't understand quite. Who is it !"
(4) August 16, 1901. "A.W.V. will understand this—I think
of him when I say it—you do not know. Mone inquit alteram,
ne titubet—non semper recte fit quod manu incipit. S«i \Pov^fiv
Kal crv/iiradeiv. prosit credenti."
(5) October 6, 1901. "They are walking down a garden
path—in a level sunlight—to a white house, yews, the garden,
years ago. Monet ne dixeris omni quod tibi confitear
soli. But A.W.V. must be satisfied etc."
Lin.] Appendix. 367
(6) January 13, 1902. "Patience for you both— it will
come Three Latin words can she not write them ? would give
the clue. Quid fremuerunt gentes ? gentes seems right —gens
togata rapit. Non possum plurima hodie cras meri meliora super-
sunt. Cras meliora supersun t."
(7) February 13, 1902. "But who stands above? watching,
invisible? The leader & palm-bearer nihil perfecisti. omnia
saepe de integro reficienda sunt.
It is not known to me. There was a secret signal, made with
the lips—it betrayed not, but many left it undone. voices in
the air. why not? strangers not admitted Can you
take the message ? They call me too much
There is truth in this. o "
(8) January 15, 1903. "Corvinus or comix but that
is not the sense—wait for the word. He said ' I will send the
half message to Mrs. Verrall and you have the other half. Tell
Hodgson this,—but you have not got the word yet. Corbel
perhaps is more like Corb Corvel it was some time ago
through Mrs. Piper but they were not to tell you etc."
(9) March 15, 1903. "Write yourself now Otranto pice
cur non cetera ? quia non comprehendit ilia nostr a fac quiescat.
Signum illud pro bono etc."
(10) March 20, 1903. "Never when the wind blows from out
of the East. But on the Western breeze it comes—with sound of
bells and music heard afar. Ask about this.
Listen now she tells the rest—they listen
Ask at Smithfield etc."
(11) October 23, 1903. "faith fled, Hope stayed when did
that happen 1—no this is not right. Stop it is too difficult—let her
write.
These three etc."
(12) February 1, 1904. "Fin is ill do you not hear? R get
the next word for me. Fin — sway that is the sound—listen
again fin sway out in on say that write that sound in sense,
outinon Finiswayout Inn no—not right. It is a
message about Fin—it is urgent.
[scribbks]
let me say it. It is a sudden illness which she
sees will come to her siste r—t his is Mrs
Cartwright speaking — she wants you to know
Appendix. [PART
— Not in her own house in london, somewhere
else. Tell someone this.
We had another message but this was urgent—write to-morrow
for ours."
(13) Nov. 25, 1904. See below, p. 398.
Besides the above, there are possibly indications of " conversations "
in the scripts of :
April 7, 1901, where some one addressed in the second person is
spoken of as masculine (deprehensus . . . devagavisti), and cannot
therefore be myself, unless the masculine form of the participle is
a mere blunder.
Aug. 26, 1902, where there is a suggestion that one person is
explaining something to another who is not able to see,—a suggestion
borne out by the multiplicity of signatures.
June 14, 1903, where a blunder is accounted for by the difficulties
of transcribing what some one else dictates. This may be a general
remark, but it is possible here to understand that two persons are
supposed to be actually engaged in the process of conveying informa
tion to me.
STATEMENTS BY THE SCRIPT AS TO ITS OWN SUCCESS.
Incorrect :
(1) Jan. 13,1902. " gentes seems right." (See p. 283.)
(2) Feb. 13, 1902. "There is truth in this."
(3) May 13, 1903. "There is something in this if you could only
see it."
(4) July 3, 1903. "Some of this is important." (See p. 63.)
(5) Feb. 9, 1904. " You do not understand ... but it is true."
Doubtful :
(1) May 27, 1901. " talia si describas sine remissione patefiat
veritas." (See p. 284.)
(2) June 24, 1902. "This is evidential I think at last—but it has
been hard to get." (See p. 301.)
(3) Feb. 16, 1903. " this means something."
Correct :
(1) June 23, 1901. " hodie aliquid feci quod ad gloriam veritatis
abundet."
(2) Sept. 18, 1901. " This last is important."
(3) Oct. 9, 1902. "there is truth in this." (See p. 189.)
LIU.] .Appendix. 309
CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF EVENTS CONDUCING TO CONFIDENCE
IN SCRIPT. SEE CHAP. V., P. 92.
May 16, 1901, saw in Westminster Gazette account of " Daily Mail
Ghost"; which seemed to establish something genuine in the script
of May 11. (See p. 328.)
May 17, 1901, heard what seemed to establish truth of statement
in the script of May 8. (See p. 207.)
June 1, 1901, looked up the Symposium to see what " clue "
Diotima gave, with a result which impressed me as suggesting an
external cause for the script. I noted in my diary on June 3,
1901: "The certainty that I have never read the Symposium gives
the thing an evidential value—to me ... The evidential value
to outsiders is nothing,—they would think that I had read and
forgotten the Symposium,—but to me it is almost convincing."
(Seep. 311.)
Nov. 3, 1902, heard from Mrs. Forbes, enclosing writing of hers
which appeared to reflect a vivid impression of my own.
(See p. 239.)
Dec. 19, 1902, received from Mrs. Forbes what I regarded as an
unmistakeable reference to the Symposium passage, which I had
desired to convey to her. . (See p. 243.)
Feb. 10, 1903, received my copy of Human Personality, and found
there confirmation of the statements in the script that in it would
be a reference to the Symposium passage. (See p. 316.)
Oct. 20, 1903, heard from Dr. Hodgson, in verification of a message
sent to him in my script, what I noted at the time as very strong
evidence for attributing the script to an external cause.
COMPARISON IN PARALLEL COLUMNS OF STATEMENTS IN SCRIPT
AND RECORDS IN DIARY.
Dates ofprogressive confi- Dates when Script referred to my belief,
dence in Script.
,/Ap. 19,
Up- 22,
May 16, 1901.1
May 17, 1901.J"
June 1, 1901.
July 4, 1901.
2A
1901. desire that I should believe.
1901.
370 Appendix. [PART
Dates of progressive confi- Dates when Script referred to my belief,
dence in Script.
Aug. 16, 1901. desire that I should believe.
__ Sept. 9, 1901.
Nov. 3, 1902.-
Dec. 19, 1902.-
Oct. 20, 1903.-
_Nov. 13, 1901. „
Jeb. 27, 1902.
_June 24:, 1902. recognises less incredulity.
Feb. 10, 1903.
/Mar. 1, 1903. "must believe now."
\Mar. 7, 1903. „
-Aug. 22, 1903. "you do not believe."
-Sept. 22, 1903. "you have conviction."
Aug. 14, 1904. "Faith is not yours."
LIU.] Appendix. 371
ABSTENTION FROM WRITING ADVISED BY THE SCRIPT.
SEE CHAP. V., P. 93.
(1) Dec. 22, 1901. "Wait before writing. Count seven days
then try again—unless you hear." (See
also below, No. 14.)
(2) Feb. 21, 1902. "wait till after Wednesday—then write."
(3) March 15, 1902. "To night it is over nothing further for
some days."
(4) July 1, 1902. "leave it till it is clearer, till after
Friday next."
(5) Aug. 26, 1902. "No you dont see. Leave it for a while."
(6) April 30, 1903. " Wait now—do not write so often it is.
not clear."
(7) May 5, 1904. "No there is nothing wait some days."
INSTRUCTIONS AS TO WRITING GIVEN BY THE SCRIPT.
SEE CHAP. V., P. 93.
a. Vague; during a period.
(1) Oct. 27, 1902. "write more often. Talbot will help-
all through November."
(2) March 15, 1903. "Write this week and then ask Mrs.
Forbes for hers."
(3) March 20, 1903. "Reckon the days and wait."
(4) May 29, 1903. "It is better in June write that month."
(5) June 30, 1903. "write much next month, here and at
home."
(6) Oct. 19, 1903. "write this week, but not for evidence."
(7) Oct. 30, 1903. "write next week."
/?. Definite ; on a fixed day.
" tonight."
(1) March 14, 1902. "Write each day again to-night."
(2) June 24, 1902. "To-night again."
(3) Dec. 19, 1902. "write to-night."
" to-rnmrow."
(4). Nov. 4, 1902. "Defer in crastinum — medianum diem
ilium."
(5) Oct. 22, 1903. "you will understand more later—write
to-morrow."
372 [PAST
Appendix.
(6) Dec. 1, 1903. "Sit regularly alone or with others &
that will bring results—you will see.
Try to-morrow with Mrs. Dew Smith
and let yourself go."
"write to-morrow for ours [i.e. message]."
"write to-morrow but expect no word."
(7) Feb. 1, 1904.
(8) Feb. 5, 1904.
"on a date assigned."
(9) March 29, 1901.
(10) April 20, 1901.
(11) May 26, 1901.
(12) June 30, 1901.
(13) Aug. 7, 1901.
(14) Dec. 22, 1901.
(15) March 31, 1902.
(16) June 27, 1902.
(17) July 13, 1902.
(18) Sept. 6, 1902.
(19) March 11, 1903.
(20) June 14, 1903.
(21) Dec. 7, 1903.
"notare horam . . . horas pone sex postea
quattuor et idies identidem computa.
ibi vigila ne dicam ora pro nobis."
" computa. nonas pone horas ; post aliquot
dies—vis scire quot dies 1 1 + 1 + 1 + 1 + 1
et adde insuper tres. scribere sine re-
missione semper in provinciam."
"Count 40 hours then write, it will be
clear."
"1 1 1 and then 3 more, put nine
and count the days listen that night."
"August 23rd is the date you will see—
write that night."
"Wait before writing. Count seven days
then try again—unless you hear." [See
also No. 1 above.]
"Later days will help—in May and again
after seven weeks and days on an even
ing suddenly you will see."
"Write on Sunday."
"Count three and five and write then—
(a) and on the 23rd of the month (b)."
"Wait for the clue on the 17th it will
come. Sept. 17th write then."
" irefMTTrj KCU SeKarrj rjfifp^ ... on that day
watch not alone, when the vision comes
note the day, and count from now."
" write again on the longest day (a) and
June 23 (b)."
"note the date in late April and write
on the evening of the 23rd do not tell
anyone this till after the event. Write
then in Cambridge—at 9 o'clock. Ke-
member." [See also No. 25.]
LIII.] Appendix. 373
(22) Dec. 25, 1903. "Write this for me. on the 17th of next
month ask the question."
[See also No. 24.]
(23) Dec. 27, 1903. "count days five six and two, then listen
and remember."
(24) Jan. 9, 1904. "Fac scribas die septimo decimo."
[See also No. 22.]
(25) 'April 10, 1904. "And write on the 23rd but before that
too." [See also No. 21.]
(26) Sept. 18, 1904. "Write this week more often and especially
on Wednesday morning next."
(27) Dec. 28, 1904. "6 days you must wait from now and
other 3— then the message will make
things clear. Let it come then."
LIST OF PASSAGES WHEN THE SCRIPT ORDERED THAT THE DATE OR
HOUR SHOULD BE NOTED. SEE CHAP. V., P. 102.
t (1) May 8, 1901. "no power, doing something else to-night.
note hour." [Seep. 207.]
? (2) May 27, 1901. " tempus adnotare. . . . Talia vidi recenti
tempore—talia si describas sine remissione
patefiat veritas." [See p. 284.]
t (3) May 11, 1901. "Do not hurry, date this hoc est quod
volui—&c., &c." [See p. 328.]
t (4) June 23, 1901. " hodie aliquid feci quod ad gloriam veritatis
abundet. . . . notare diem hora non multum
interest." &c., &c.
t (5) Dec. 5, 1901. "note the hour I will tell someone else I
was here." [See p. 226.]
(6) July 18, 1902. "Last night it could not be told. But
note this hour." [See p. 120.]
t(7) July 23, 1902. "Hodie mane aliquid . . . evenit . . . Note
the date." [See p. 235.]
1(8) Feb. 6, 1904. "To-night is a marked date—note it."
[Seep. 180.]
(9) July 13, 1904. "It is something contemporary that you are
to record, note the hour."
Note to above. On the occasions marked t evidential matter appears
to have been given in the script; on those marked ? the matter
referred to lacks distinctness. Where the cases are discussed among
" verifiable incidents," references are given.
374 Appendix. [PART
LIST or PASSAGES IN SCRIPT REFERRING TO POSSIBILITY or CON
VEYING INFORMATION IN DREAM. SEE CHAP. VI., P. 103.
(1) June 16, 1901. "There is no hurry. show it all to your
husband. Try at night—dont press—
wait."
(2) June 30, 1901. "listen that night—the bird will come 1'uccel
di Dio. in the everlasting snows*—
you cannot fail to note."
(3) Dec. 21, 1901. " You cannot write to night—dream instead."
(4) May 31, 1902. "dream and remember—the blue colour*
that you saw—see again to-night, alone
in sleep. Do not forget."
(5) Oct. 9, 1902. "Dreamers see most of the truth—in golden
visions of the dawn— They can tell
you that this is true."
(6) Dec. 14, 1902. "Dream tonight."
(7) May 13, 1903. "no you wont understand what I tell you.
Sleep is better."
(8) June 21, 1903. " It is hard for us when you have no hope—
Listen to night in the silence it will
come to you."
(9) Aug. 8, 1903. "Find the pillar in sleep."
,(10) Dec. 7, 1903. " a word was said on Saturday night but
you did not hear, listen again to-night
I will say it more plainly. write it
down the moment you wake—no matter
when."
"* [Notes to the above. (2) I was in the Alps when this was written.
,(4) See p. 118, note 1 ; there is a special blue colour familiar
to me in dreams.]
LIST OF UNIDENTIFIED NAMES. SEE CHAP. VI., P. 106.
a. Unaccounted for :
(1) Oct. 29, 1901. "Frendsham or Frettisham Park, perhaps
Frodsham. [signed] Alec K."
Nov. 1, 1901. "Alec can try again later." "at Frodsham
there is an old house."
Nov. 4, 1901. "Frodsham and a river. . . . Alec Keith
—to the friend of another."
LIII.] 375
Appendix.
Nov.
(2) Nov.
(3) Dec.
(4) Dec.
13, 1901
25, 1901
The message came
17, 1901.
18, 1901,
(5) Jan. 4, 1902.
(6) Feb.
(7) March 19, 1902.
(8) March 26, 1902.
(9) May 25, 1902.
"Frodsham. . . .
through Alec."
" High Chester . . . Hugh Chesson at
some place that ends in Chester, God-
manchester perhaps."
" Robershaw a historian."
" Rodney, Roland, Ronald . . . Wilmington,
. . . name of the church spire."
" Heseltine. . . . Francis Hezeltine. De-
vornik . . . Devoniac is better. . . .
Llangovery is the present address."
18, 1902. "Ralph Nevile, not of Warwick."
" Dover, . . . Dover court. . . . Emmie
and Frank. . . . from Harry."
" Nesta and Trenery. . . . Great Crosby
. . . Marston, Everard Marston."
" Maupertuis and Sarrasin ... in a book
together."
(10) July
Aug.
(11) Sept.
23, 1902.
25, 1902.
17, 1902.
(12) Oct.
(13) Dec.
Dec.
Jan.
21, 1902.
9, 1902.
26, 1903.
24, 1903.
(14) Jan.
Jan.
20, 1903.
21, 1903.
, Clemens."
Romanzero and Nicholas."
. Clancard no Clan Cahart
Clancarty and Ormond."
Denys Haliburton."
" Romenzana
" Clementine
" Clan George
Clancy. .
" Goschen. . .
"Caro Carnibrth."
" Carnforth."
" Cornford is more like than Carnforth.
Carn. Calne. . . . Violet. . . . Newman."
" Pendarvan . . . George . ."
" [above completed as] George Young . . .
10, 1903.
(15) March 20, 1903.
(16) April 2, 1903.
(17) April
(17) June
(18) June
(19) Sept.
(20) Feb.
(21) July
Knyvett."*
, Portals or Portalis."
. . . Douern [a river]."
or Croisic."
and
Wilson .
" Smithfield
"AJC . .
" Crosik
29, 1903. "Finlayson
30, 1903. "Alfred."
27, 1903. " Henry Lambert or Lampson."
9, 1904. "Mortimer Gothard, 1703." [Signature.]
3, 1904. "Ockenden Manor."
Mary."
[* Note to the above, No. 14.
of names known to me.]
Knyvett Wilson is a combination
376 Appendix. [PART
(b) Possibly accounted for.:
(22) Sept. 4, 1901. " Maidment Evan awnsley." See p. 322.
(23) 7am. 8, 1902. "Everitt; angelus." Seep. 277.
(24) Dec. 9, 1902. " Milbranke." See p. 320.
(25) Feb. 2, 1903. " Harriet de Vane." See p. 249.
ANECDOTES IN THE SCRIPT. SEE CHAP. VI, P. 111.
October 26, 1901. " Caristia insula Rhodani multum interest
fKfi efjifVf SoAi'xovs rmepas. SaKpvcri jreirpay/ievos—ad eum
venit ianitor cum spe aliqua emendandi omnia—quid mihi—
rogas, inquit Georgios ille—benevolentiam, respondit, tuam
filius enim meus nunc in discrimine rerum—imprecatio rei fata
deterrere valet. Fac die carmina canta—pro parte virili, nomine
filii mei. Valetudo redit. This is a tale not mine—you will find
it told—look in the lives of saints—for the Caustian legend of St.
Josephs. But the word is not quite Caristia—Charis
Feb. 18, 1902. "merit in this long narrow hand written two cen
turies ago or more. Can you not see who is meant ? Nevile is one
name Ralph Nevile, not of Warwick, a scholar not a soldier : four
square and pillars no other at all like it. Commensal regi ibidem
dormivit. Tabula rasa ossa sua operit e cineribus magna flamma eripit
erupit scientiae opifex. Hoc valde scieri potest.
Signator nomen posuit.
R. NEVILE."
[Note. The hand-writing is not my own normal writing.]
June 5, 1904. "Neve usquam linter macedonicus vento
adpulsus in portam illam adveniet. Chalcedonicus magister ratem
impulit phoeniken punicam ; alio modo gubernando non nostro.
Historian! bene notatam manu tua describas. In ripa barbari
stupefiunt—indigenarum rex cum galeatis adversum trepidat—ecce
in mare supervacuum cachinnus et praeter nihil. Fragor caeli
omen iis etsi non omina accipientibus-—' Deus, Deus quidem nefastum
decrevit illud.'
vanitate humani ingeni universum in se vertentes.
Respice in librum, talia invenies, nota—Episcopus historian! rettulit>
ego tibi pro miraculo quod saepe flagitasti."
LIII.] Appendix. 377
LIST OF PASSAGES DESCRIBING SUPPOSED " ISLES OF THE BLEST."
SEE CHAP. VI., P. 112.
(1) March 11, 1901. "multiplex flora carpitur iliac o quam
inventibus [or iuventibus] suave olens roscidus humor super genas
caelicolis et infra ingens— —nee sine stupore."
(2) March 29, 1901. "spes permanet KOO-P.OV tenuis pervo-
latibilis unica aptat multiponens odoratam luminis florem
caelestis nee abest oa-fnij sapienti prosit advenae satis."
(3) April 27, 1901. "Latine loquere, sed tu non potes interpre-
tare. ascripta es glebae mente vel ingenio—o libera animam per
maria per polum transcurre modo cantoris. omnia ibi plana, omnia
rosea suffusa luce vel caecis bene videntia. oculi autem tui
caligine circumfusi."
(4) Jan. 18, 1903. "Come unto me and I will give you rest.
Vivida vis animai lampada tradere qui singula pro parte virili
perficiunt. lampada tradunt. Talia posui apud amicum hoc debes
illi amico meo nuntiare—tum forsitan alia diciliora credere potest.
Discre potuerunt qui velint—tu omnino sola sola munere fungi
potes—mentem adhibe.
Supellectilem in medio leves quod subter est invenies—tune
in alienos mittas [page turned] in alienam terram mittas, responsum
bene legendum est. item itemque—insuper fac mentem adhibeas.
Flores in caespite blandi et integri roscidulo rore superfundati—o
cur non in amicos mittes ?
quod in animo habeas, tale manu perficere. Inest odorata aura.
Crux in caelum usque ad polum attinget—umbrosa felicitas multis
cum rivulis -iroij re fvavdepia. ibi habit ant beati illi quos bene
cognovisti.
Tuus."
(5) Jan. 20, 1903. "Umbrifer in aquis nestoridae circumveniunt
cum omnimodis et multisonantibus chordis—undas circum natant
in delphinum processu plangore resonantium. Talia vidi, talia
audii, talia tibi dictito—Tu modo aures praebe. Nereidum chorus
pro h ! languescit. dehiscit ingens rima—ibi intremus—nec motus,
horror superest—inane omne patet.
Do you not recognise ? you have seen or read it. In those realms
is bliss, under the shadow of a great tree—and peaceful rest."
(6) March 7, 1903. "Iliaco carmine responsum dedi illi quod
semper postulas—Mentionem iam ante feci huius loci—cur non
378 Appendix. [PART
invenire potes ? O.KTTI waverj—mare glaucum spumantibus equis
insuper deus vehitur—nihilomagis rota magistri tempus in partes
aequas dividit. primo splendidior, postremo multi sonans voce
angelica, postea autem VOTJTO) re Kal voepy magis uteris. Num
credibilius illid, o nunquam mihi fidem praebens ! Temptanti
diflicilia, manum attendere debeas—rnanum amicam usque ad oram
illam. wKTfpos rjS1j 6Sos."
(7) March 27, 1903. "cessere venti inhiat ingens rima per illam
introrsum videre poteris si caput declmas. En ! lux argenteus omnia
pervadit vario colore variisque odoribus—safrano croceoque flore,
purpureo roseoque colore, unda super undam defluat.—omuia splen
dent, in medio illos cernere debeas quos tibi antehac sedentes
descripsi. The heart of them is ruddy gold and a flame goes up
from the midst—but a flame that flickers not, but shines radiant
lucid tela diei are not so bright. This is clear clearer than
\oirr]KTol Trijyoi. That ought to help. It belongs to the O.KTTJ
that I gave you before."
(8) May 29, 1903. "Omine magno Dedisti iam nomen etsi non
credas. Fac rogat aliquis. ore rotundo,—no—orotando o r o t a r a
is more like—0 rot an a through Tara's halls.
It is better in June write that month. A sacro fonte spargitur
aqua clargedula proximus est flos multicolor, iam coronis Zephyro
patentibus—Odor purpurata inest in hortulo illo. cantant comatae
Silviae concentibus multimodis avium.
Super omnia sese involutat hedera deorum capax—hedera non
tuae similis sed \p<a/j.ari, \pixrey eXiKcofeis <f>v\\.d re Kal /3<xrT/3oTpva..
tali cinget deus ipse caput vypip re KOI gdv6y dvdiaSei e\i\pva-y
vaKivQivavs tVi Ko/iais-. Ex foliis singulis distillat roscidus umor,
non aliter ac gemma in suminis herbis primo candente sole post
noctem illam quaiu antibat nihil. Golden birds on a golden bough,
and golden songs in a real Hesperid garden. Sound and sight and
sense are one and all of it golden in the golden days."
(9) Aug. 8, 1903. "Early or late it is the same. Constantia
nemo phile angiosperma blue on the ground such is the colour-
angio begins but you have not the right word A n g i o 1 a no
a n g i o 1 I dont know it. Blue barberry hagios «rri rb
Tb pr]6ev—TI 8' OVK ; crvv /cAaSuis ayiov <T/Mfpiv6ov Kf\aSovvri
iravra crvfiur\ypol. color caelicolarum aura—a vapour of blue
surrounds, a luminous mist, so you may know them. Still it
stands, and no shadows—and the pillars stretch to the upper
air—& thence falls the soft radiance transcending sense. There
Lin.] Appendix. 379
is no shadow, nor break in the light, but the things are not trans
parent—you cannot see through that pillar, but you can see what
is behind it. And there is no reflexion on the crystal floor—not
the least ripple. You only see the bottom of the pillars and the
floor, one central column
no not so numerous—Your group is round the central pillar—that
is the meeting place though you see no one there. But the colour
should make you know that there are the happy blest. Not all can
see the colour—but some see the movement, wh. is not to you
Find the pillar in sleep.
pfv/i0. K/3iKrraAAivov djrb <rvfi
pei6piav no
<rvfi,<f>vT<av pfi6piav euro
o-TiA/3« K«Aaiyu? a.vToirr]£ vSiup aei
jra;rTaivov<ra rail' fl\rj<f>OT<av
It is not quite right But you have the idea, it is hard to catch
—& only those get who have.
[drawing of haves]
Lotos.
I tried before for this.
[drawing of lotus flower..] "
LIST OF PASSAGES RECALLING CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS.
SEE CHAP. VI., P. 119.
(1) March 5, 1901. " rosea angelica."
(2) March 29, 1901. "graece loquitur emptor redemptor cruci-
ferens."
(3) May 23, 1901. "agnus dei cum cruce eburneo. put it down.
Manifold uses are there for us all, Dominans in ripa stetit
hagiologus."
(4) Jan. 31, 1902. "Crux et praeterea nihil. Post sempiternam
mansuetudinem omnia supervacua—in terris. pone superbiam sume
togaculum caritatis impigre-"
380 Appendix. [PART
(5) June 27, 1902. "Veni creator were the words exultans
cantavit apud spiritus sanctos inter filios Dei. Peace on earth—
tranquillitas super omnia maria terrasque omnes. Then listen for
the fiery news. an arch of light bridges the chassm between
earth and sky—Profundum caelum vel inare unum videtur—
Consentiant omnes etsi pro tempore nesciunt."
(6) July 18, 1902. "Now listen (J tiles that shape and a
tesselated pavement, with a pattern, made by the particoloured
tiles, black white & yellow—I look down on it from far above.
^ KLV 3 ig written in black letters. There are twinkling points
of light. — and movement over the pavement. It is a service, not
in English, why write malekite malechite—that is the
word, something large & flat of that stone lies on one side
the windows are small & richly jewelled,—not as in our Gothic—the
whole church low and the light rich but not clear. Ludovicus
what is that—Ludovicus noster pro pietate, ausculta in miseri-
cordiam tuam accipe eum. No not quite right—accipe Ludovicum,
regem ilium, in misericordiam et gremium tuum, domine, proh
gratia. That is what, they sing—men, in black—many of them—
Kaiser i Hind >C / that is the shield It is lying on
something. It is all far off and I see from very high [page turned}.
It is the unexpected which has happened this morning—Last
night it could not be told. But note this hour. It is sad but not
disastrous, you will hear to morrow or next day—and all will talk.
M o s c o w a not—like that, i c o certainly, and an O
is something public—and ought to help. It does not interest you.
a tiara is there, with floating strings,—not worn. You cannot
complete—leave it. Leona — — — —.
Pontifex maximus."
(7) July 23, 1902. " Monsignor catholicus presbyter in terra nou
lontana ab ista rem probabit. nomen recipe—Longinqua scribere
debuisti lingrua non bene uteris. Romenzana hoc est nomeii illius
LIII.] Appendix. 381
qui claviculam alviyparos tibi tradere poteat. En etiam Clemens
inest nominibus illius. Nec plura de illo."
(8) Oct. 25, 1902. "Went worth made the device for him
—a fish and anchor. Give them both Dont forget, and Saint
Peters keys."
(9) Dec. 4, 1902. "Manifold uses are there for us all. look
back at that hagiologus is an important word."
(10) Feb. 2, 1903. "Cunabula cum narthece ceromatico possidet
infantem deum. Hodie sanctus Sanctorum in fideles lumen
impetrat. quis in concilio dei gloriam spectat 1 tintinnabulis ridet
omne concinant cir cumstantes."
(11) Feb. 9, 1903. "Sponsor cum matertera aquam in putidillo
praebet. Lintello tersunt no tergunt—/j.aprvpei o irapiav
6 Sfos ev<f>r]fieiTe X™/°is KoAAirri;,"
PRAYER IN SCRIPT OF DEC. 6, 1904. SEE CHAP. VI., P. 125.
" Ave tu qui summam sapientiam nostrae ignorantiae appro-
pinquare sapis—monitis tuis animum meum rege, prudentia tua
difficultates supera, magnanimitate tua angustias miseriasque sum-
move. denique in regna ilia nos ex terrarum angulo dux noster
viam monstra, semper antecedens idem compellens vestigia semper
et ubique
But the words are not all arranged.
It is not as it should be.
magnanimitate, mansuetudine omnibus praecellat, idem sapiens
iustus rex, lumen in tenebris in tempestatibus pax, dux comesque
in via, servit et imperat."
[Note : The language perhaps recalls well-known classical passages ;
thus :
Script: "idem sapiens iustus rex"; Horace, Sat. I. 3. 124, "si
dives qui sapiens est, et sutor bonus et solus formosus et est rex,"
and Epp. I. 1. 107, "sapiens uno minor est Jove, dives, liber,
honoratus, pulcher, rex denique regum," this last very familiar to me.
Script: "dux comesque in via"; Hadrian, " hospes comesque
corporis."]
ENIGMATIC on ORACULAR EXTRACTS FROM SCRIPT.
SEE CHAP. VI., P. 125.
(1) September 28, 1901.
"TI TTOT' OVK avapi^/iijros 6 pvdfu.o'i Tiuf ovpaviiav ; ft,!av <f>p<i£eis ; OVK
e<r(? oVws oil AiyH^jis. SiSv/ios 6 Troves dAAa oAos. ordi^a^e lv
dpprjTois alviy/JLara, 7rAeK»/iui <roi Kai aXAois TKTIV oi)$ f8ei."
382 Appendix. [PART
(2) January 4, 1902.
" Mousike endoxis iravra pv6pi£ei (nrapa.TO.KTOv /cai avl£eXevTOV TO
<rrj/iiflov ovof dvapvdfirjTov—irapaKa\ei erepovs OITJ ov irdvv <ac^eXijs f?.
/cai orj /cai aXXoi rive's 1jSrj e<f>66yyio-av <{navy Kaiirep dfi'v«T^. dXX'
1jS11 /cXayyowrg. TI Se ov /cai irv ; "
(3) March 19, 1902.
" 2vvapp6£ei uovov TO <Tvvap/ioa-TJiv Kaiirep ov crv/x^SaXov. ovoe yap
avfv o~vv6eTov TWOS evpv6fj-OV rb iraiv. TI Srj o~Toi\a,£uls -, Se^ov
o ri av pii/-g TO voov/ievov. 2oJ yap ovv /cai aAAoig XeXe/CTai S
(4) May 31, 1902.
" iroXXa S^ SeSo/crai ovfiev Sf ajravTiov TfcJi/ 6pv\ovpiviav dfl
fiovo-iKo's Ti9 /cai /iowraios rjS1y KaTa\afi/3dvfrai T«/cTovi/c«DS irws."
(5) /Mfy 13, 1902.
" o"vv<7To^af« /cai avrbs ov ya/3 Sijirov avev aXij$eias ei's
a<^i/cr«iTai. /cai Sij XeXe/cTai. fpfir^veverai 6 (3ov\6pevos."
(6) January 25, 1903.
" Who seeketh the sun at murk ? to each hour its own light
suffices, but all the light is there somewhere—shadow is a part
—Twilight is between the light and the darkness & in
twilight the shadows grow less."
(7) January 30, 1903.
" 2wa/3/ioTT«i Ta croi XeXaXij/ieva /cai Ta «/c«ii/jjs SeSoy/xeva—crv/j-irpdcr-
o~eiv afieivov ovof apto-Toi ev ToiipSe oi ^<apifovT«S—dXXa Icrriv ofs
o~\i£eiv S«i <r\i£eiv—dpi6/iiJT<a o dfl \ey<av dpiOpol TO. eiSrj—/cai o5ra> TO
dpi6/Miv o~v/j.<f>fpei."
(8) June 21, 1903.
" ov Sfo-fioio-i Ticriv dXXd Xv^eTois fevy/ia<riv eis TO TTO.V eTrjTVfUas av
f'X^ois—/iiov^ ov/c Svvdo"ai dXXd o~vv fTfp<ji Kaiirep ov o~vfn,irpao-o-ovri "
(9) October 6, 1903.
"Autaggeltos •% Siavoia—/cai Si' avrrfv irdvrO. Sie/ce/cocr/i>jTai. "
(10) January 29, 1904.
" enfronen gengend ye /cai /c/aoo-iws ovSe dvev OO-IOTTJTOS TC /cai
rr<ji<f>poo-vvrjS. /cai Sid TavTa eis <rvvfo-iv IX^ois TOV SoyjuaTos TOV irdi/Ta
pv6/ii£ovrO$ Tf /cai o-vvapfio^i—o-vva(0/io>'ifoVTOs."
(11) Nwerriber 30, 1904.
" nec accidit ad universum sed in partibus. declina sic semper
in finem pervenies. Cum ceteris facilius—tum exporrecta facultas
LIII.] Appendix. 383
tibi ceterisque uncum praebet quo intangibile comprehendere possis
Quodsi intangibile bene comprehendis, intactum tactum, draKruv
iv rd£ei—quid plura ?—reducis multifaria ad unum compellans.
Latinitate peccat etsi non sensu."
(12) December 4, 1904.
" (rvvTay/ua ICTTI TO TI on crwTacrar«Tai KOI crvvSeSerai votp Tf KOU
T*XV1?° MT<i> ra ^f\ °^Ta °VK avfv KripiafiaToy rao' ft Aixms o-v
yviacrfrai TO irav Taxa.
TO /j.e\\ov- o"KOTias T« KO.I
LIST OF MYSTIC SAYINGS. SEE CHAP. VI., P. 127.
(1) March 7, 1903.
See above, p. 377.
(2) Jan. 29, 1904.
See above, p. 382.
(3) May 26, 1904.
" aAA' oi fiev ecr/iiev olSe Sf Ka.1 TedvrjKOTfs
T<av vplv Ae \rj6ov
riav vplv \e\rjdov ovSev «? T& Secnrocrai
Toiyap TO irev^eiv ei Tis o?S« er
arriv /i
non bene omnia—etsi quaedam."
(4) June 10, 1904.
aSijAoYas* TWV fia6ijT^v ois dSijAd Ta erepoi,'s Srj\orara. Etymo-
logicum Symbolisticum.
&e<uv Sdo-is /3pOTOis fUKpov TI AeXi/i/uei/os. vvvi—TOIS Se£a/«vois
arr^v TaA^iva irapaSei^acra Tas 6a.va.Toio TrvAas dvoi^eTai. IKEI «i
Ka.6a.pa, vfijiaTi Kaflopav ovvd<rai /J.VO-TIKOVS fvprfcreis fTi Sr] TO.
\nro\ei<f>9evra. Ko.Ta.Tiivovra.<s. del yap TO. fKfT TO. TE evrfv6ev
u—o"vvSfTa Iv
[* JVbfe. The word do^Ad-n;?, ' uncertainty,' appears to be used
by the script as though it were a concrete noun, on the analogy of
9, 'a disciple.']
384 Appendix. [PART
(5) June 24, 1904.
" Do not forgive Some time saeva indignatio is just. Where
forgiveness has been friendship cannot be. there is no forgiving a
friend—we accept and regret remember if we will but forgiveness is
of the indifferent only. Forgive your enemies.
( j X1isia dele Crousia /ioi/OC/>iAvjTbs 1j 6vya.rr]p- iravSfKTiap epiaro^
dyyf\ia o~epac/>eo-iv creipdfopos- dAA' ev dyioyxaTi TIIU riav fia6r^Tiav
rravSfKTiap /cai iravS<apos TO avrb Swapd ft KOI OVK epy<j). TOiyap
o~oc/>oi pjovoi ol /iif/Avrj/jievoi- ovroi yap /jivrj/uxnvT) xpwvTes Ai;^>js e/iir\e<a
TO irapa.Seiy]jM TO ipyainiiibv ev urafriv.
(6) Aug. 21, 1904.
"aXA" dvfv Kidapia-fwv iaAA«i Tep^i^opTj ij/ierepa, oi 5e /cai aKpoarai,
ovre; avrdl doiSal ^v\r; «ai ov \fpcrlv ^aAAowri. Toi
dxTO/ievoS avaSos- OVTCOS 5^0rTai fiMdrJTai Kaiirfp SiScurKaAoi/ d
ei Irepos, Ti /cai ov o~v j
But the end is not yet nor here—write only, interpret not. record
the bits and when fitted they will make the whole.
nunc redit vox chori illius sine cithara cantantium, modo quodam
incomprehensibili vobis quidem sibi autem dilectissimo, gloriam et
omnis et omnium celebrantium. quam cum audivimus, mortales con-
gressus vitare debemus, sempiternam petere communionem."
(7) Oct. 12, 1904.
"Ne duis et si tritonis quidem in dies magis. Septempedaliter
imponens caligulas vestigiis prodigia ilia ille quoque ad
fabulatam casellam attinget. Ter et quater renovare viam. Charon
in ripa stetit—patiens ille impatientibus viatorem—remo pro bacillo
utitur—in capite pileus, cymba canisque iuxta. Non cognoscis
ypa^fna 1 Vidisti tamen—ultro ripam usque ad illam venisti ad
sodales tuos rursus regressus.
Mortales voce tua transhumana permulcis aures—animas quod
plus est—Dulcisonans cantus per adamantina clethra transgressis
resonat—sic inter ilia et tua tanquam poris inter ripas semper
medium sustines.
Dum fluit amnis distinctae ripae—in mare profundum cum sese
demersit amnis ripae in contraria primo divergentes, postremo
orbiter aquas continentes circumeunt, iam non oppositae sed eaedem."
Jan. 24, 1905.
" Chiasma no xoo-/iia yrjs Zvepdev /cai avia 6 fyriov irvppa ev cf>\oyrj
vSiap e£ f\LVOV Toiavra iraAai /cai oijSe ws d\rj6fi ra 6e Se/cTa SeSey/i-eva.
dicere velis o barbarica usus lingua non tua.
LIII.] Appendix. 385
dXA' 01 flV>jTOl TOiS <£lAoiS flOVOl (TVVfUTLV. Ol 8' dflVrjTOl del
Tiyi/Jons Kal ra<f>^/iara Kv\ivSovvrai <fro/3ov Tois irapovvi
ovSe avrois dV/x:A i/«:u. K<U Si) iravTa TOiavTa TraXai irws ev /Ji/3Ai'oig
•yeypaarrai. «ire <rvv vip f'm d/ia6iy fiv6o\oyovfievo. <f>i\ocro<piav lori
LIST OF QUASI-MATHEMATICAL SAYINGS. SEE CHAP. VI., P. 131.
(1) Ap. 3, 1901.
" ad illud fjiovei Svafav dSvvaTov."
(2) Nov. 26, 1902.
"ri TTOT' ovo/xafeis j ovnva—crvva.pidfir]T<a TO Xdyeiov—aXAos Ti
irevo-erai TO oXov, O-D Se owe ?ra /XOIT; evi Tr/joo-TreXafeii/ Swourai."
(3) Z)ec. 19, 1902.
<rvfii<f>6pei TJSi] ravra f\eyov. ovSf Svdfav. eva. evl
(4) June H, 1903.
" T/3iy<oviov «TTI TO Ti. Svo~ XV'S oi/O/iiao'ai avTb—6/io—*»f
v—hoc dicere volui—ofuxr\evpov Kal /iovoaS«s ovSe
SvvaTov ovS« <rv/i/3\r]<rKeiv.* non bene dictum illud —verbum non
facile transcribenti tibi quod alius dictitet."
(5) Dec. 28, 1904.
" irdvriav opoiiav ofwia TO. fifprj. Sia ravra <rvvfpporjKa<Tiv ra
ofioiov/jfva- aKravTcas Kal ra ofiouadevra,
ov&e TaCra w<^eXi/ia. a\\a TOI \eyeLV
*Note on No. (4). Just before writing the above, I had been
reading a few chapters of Plotinus. The word o-v/x/JAijo-Keiv is mere
rubbish.
"KEAL" DREAMS. SEE CHAP. VII., P. 148.
The dates of the " real " dreams recorded are as follows :
Feb. 1, 1894.
May 8, 1894.
Aug., between 13 and 18, 1894.
April, between 25 and 27, 1895.
Nov. 18, 1896.
April 19, 1898.
April 19, 1901.
Sept. 13, 1901.
Feb. 27, 1902.
2B
386 Appendix. [PART
Aug. 13, 1902.
April 7, 1903.
May 19, 1904.
Aug. 8, 1904.
Oct. 4, 1904.
Dec. 21, 1904.
It will be noted that the " real " dreams have been more numerous
since the inception of the automatic writing, but it should be
remembered that since January, 1901, the record -has been very
much more carefully kept.
LIST OF PASSAGES IN SCRIPT SHOWING CONNEXION WITH DREAMS.
SEE CHAP. VII., P. 149.
Dates of Script. Dates of Dreams.
(1) April -19, 1901. (1) April 19, 1901.
(2) /May 8,1901. (2) May 9,1901.
\May 11, 1901.
(3) June 3, 1901. (3) June 13, 1901.
(4) /Nov. 22, 1901. (4) Nov. 25, 1901.
\Nov. 25, 1901.
(5) March 31, 1902. (5) March 30, 1902.
(6) f May 31, 1902. (6) June 20, 1902.
(June 24, 1902.
(7) June 21, 1903. (7) June 21, 1903.
(8) [April 7, 1901. (8) April 30, 1904.
April 8, 1901.
April 20, 1901.
May 3, 1901.
June 3, 1901.
The following extracts describe some of those ' real ' dreams which
were accompanied by a sense of touch. At the time that the notes
were made I had no idea that anyone but myself would see the
record.
Extract from note book, dated May 9, 1894. "Last night I had a
vivid sense of touch in a dream. I had a long complicated happy
dream about C.H.F. [a friend who had been hopelessly ill since
his boyhood] who was quite well again and coming to be with
us. He was much older, and in some ways altered. I was
tremendously happy, happier than one can be when awake (the
sensation was keener), and at the end, as I was driving with
Lin.] Appendix. 387
C.H.F. 'home,' I felt as if it was all too good to be true, and
touched his arm to reassure myself. The sensation was wonderful.
I had placed my right arm, wearing a jacket sleeve (which I can
see quite plainly) against his left arm, in a great coat—he was
driving me, and the sensation of touch was more vivid than I
have ever known it to one's bare hand or arm. It was a positive
pleasure in itself, and brought a convincing sense of reality,—so
convincing that I have felt all day as if I had really been with
C.H.F. ; I cannot describe the sensation ; there was no ' thrill,'
no 'emotion,' but only an extraordinary sense of having felt
something real,—a most delightful and inexplicable pleasure."
Extract from note book, dated April 20, 1898. " Last night—or
rather early this morning, for when I woke it was light—I had
another dream where physical and mental emotion were combined.
There had been some confused and exciting episodes,—which I can
not disentangle—but my general impression was that some man
(unknown) had been acting harshly or despotically to my great
indignation. Suddenly I found myself walking along with my right
arm from hand to elbow resting in contact upon his left arm.
The warmth physically felt brought to my mind a certainty that
my former impression about this man's conduct was wrong, and
that really all was right. I can only describe my mental sensation
as a physical sensation of glow, and the enjoyment of the fulfilled
sense of touch was intense,—so that the recollection of it all day
gives me great pleasure. The sense of touch was physical and mental
—I was conscious of the actual touch on my arm, and of a similar
touch on my mind, both of which removed an uncomfortable
impression and filled me with the joy which comes with knowing."
EXTRACTS FROM SCRIPT BEARING ON A.W.V.'s EXPERIMENT, viz.
AN ATTEMPT TO GET THREE GREEK WORDS AUTOMATICALLY
WRITTEN IN THE SCRIPT. SEE CHAP. VIII., P. 156.
Contemporary comments by A.W.V. are in round brackets.
(1) June 16, 1901, Brighton. "Five stars in the east that is not
right. Cant you understand—avis ille incredibilis redibit ante
semensem. notare [other incidents] There is no hurry, show it all
to your husband. Try at night—dont press—wait."
. (2) July 4, 1901, Eiffel Alp. "Yellow is the colour of the dawn.
Dogana."
[all follomng extracts mitten at Cambridge.]
388 Appendix. [PART
(3) July 31, 1901, Cambridge, [after saying that I had at last under
stood what it wanted] : " longaevus senex barha alba ^OI/OXITWVOS sine
apparatu . . . nonne vides1? albipannosus est signifer ille . . . July
is not out. In August you will know more—wait Dont ask. write
often. I can do it better now." (A. on his return to Cambridge
on Aug. 1 said that the script of July 31 interested him.)
(4) August 13, 1901. [after a drawing of a cock with the word "Cock "
written beside it, it went on :]
" a crested Cock that crows is the emblem—not a real bird, heraldic
—with a motto—cano canam albam."
(5) August 16, 1901. " l^ijyijo-is irapa <rol KOI aAA<}> Tivl
easier and easier though you do not know. The cock is inside
a circle perhaps a coin. Try for the words again. Cano canti
clam no carmen cano Canam somehow belongs—albicapillus
and albipannosus—aspera tibi dictito sed non desperata—si modo
interpretatore utaris commodo. Long trailing draperies of white—
turned to the right, he carries a long stick in one hand, and a
small square box in the other. There is a pleasant scent. Some
one looks at him and watches the light fall as he passes from
window to window going towards the east. A.W.V.
will understand this—I think of him when I say it. you do not
know [then exhortations to patience and faith]."
> (A. said that he did understand; that the thing was very much
confused but that he thought it was trying to say what he wanted.)
(6) August 20, 1901. "[Remarks in Greek about others being
present] Now you must see that it is right. The long room with
the many windows is near this hot room—he was outside—how plain
it seems to me ! but you dont know. Arthur can tell you."
(7) August 23, 1901. " [Mention of sundial] Canta catechumen no
thats not right KaraK\va-fi.evo^ is better. But it Jocks like Canta and
then something. The cock is really important—crowing in a circle
[circle drawn] there is writing round the bird letters raised
JTJ~A something like that. And there is something gold
about it somewhere. Canticlere is nearer [dramng of bell] a bell."
(8) August 28, 1901. "[drawing of cock in circle] Kikiriki ! It
is better now—the emblem is within the circle, golden I think.
Whittingehame and Gerald belong. Cups and a cross, the cross
between, and a bright light falls from above upon them and him
LIII.] Appendix. 389
—Ask A.W. he will recognise this. I speak with the tongue of brass
—hard to move. Cappa or Gana is a word that belongs. Cantilupe
is more like—cant ilenam Gantiaris sedile iam sedet super mundum
circumspectans. [drawing of sundial and three x x x ] in the east to
the daylight—happily. Now write the word—it runs round a dial
or font."
(A. said there was something intelligible to him, besides the sundial.)
(9) August 29, 1901. " Comprehendere magnum nomen non
facile tibi //aXivSpoSea letter by letter is easier to do but they are not
right yet. Begin again MALVIDEA DENDRON The shape of the
letters is archaic C r- 1 l~" & so on- —Does he move now '
Cantilect that is not so good as before—Cantuar £ £ and a heraldic
bird, in colours—the light comes through, on a window to the east,
more than one—"
(A. said there was a point for him in the above ; he read £ £
as es in 'archaic letters.' I had taken them as initials, E.G.)
(10) September 2, 1901. "Canticlene has a word to say—one for
him not you. Fundet mith in tal mallim sham i tawan
There could be more. Malleson a daughter and James or Jameson
—I think James only. Dont give up. Listen again—waly is the
beginning—perhaps vale, two syllables « T&—strong meat for babes
—meet for thinkers. follow the valy —it comes again. and vale
vale all the way—"
(11) September 4, 1901. (after a sudden strong impulse to write) :
" Scribere aliquid magus iamdudum desiderat. omine magno. Cale-
fracta res agitur de nomine ipsius—Charles fort it is a place
by a river Chalfont is like it now the letters ££ agunto
CAT U fS/ T 0 esagito—Find it and you will see—in fine—But the
long white drapery has long ago agone—/iovoo-roAos—^OI/O^ITMVOS /*ovos
pfTa. Ofov ovSe a\\ov Tivbs. Seen but not followed, there were
others there but he knew more than the rest. ... I want the final
word Trerpa or petrus . . Bay."
(A. said that the script of Sept. 4 was intelligible to him.)
(12) September 4. [later on the same day as above.] " Nomen
non bene habes—igitur iterum—tentare vias. Balfour is the word
not Chal—several times he has tried for this—wailey went
390 Appendix. [PART
6 C OC. P I S usnjt* quor ponis semper idem 1 possideas iam
alia bene dicta etsi non multipliciter. . . ."
(13) September 7, 1901. "... seven in a row—or was it five—
away in the east like stars. Mol es to but the V; v_ is the end of
a word -«s there are o and 1 before the es. oX-es Tender
es fusa a long word like that,—foreign, Indian I think—Banipal
and Assur. . . . Asta, aster."
(14) September 9, 1901. ". . . Most of it but not all—ol un c es
that's not right—but the m comes before the es a g iles. I cant
tell you the sense, only the letters. It was someone else's words, not
his—His are the other, quite separate.—moleskin—that is more like,
the look not the meaning. Pye is a bird too but not ours—gasur.
dailey is more like,—daily bent — -~- — is how it goes and the first
rhymes to a—Find the herb moly that will help—it is a
guide. f^Tei KCH TeAos X?j<£eis."
(A. said that part of this script was intelligible to him, and that
a fresh point was made.)
(15) September 12, 1901. "Demonstrat igitur significationem ilium
diu exspectatam rhodius quidam insatiabilis /j.o\-es e/ioXes mollis
to wear the writing slants. Thibet looks like a word, a tie between
Pye gives one clue, but there is another—a dark man who
smoked—Both were in it—which of them spoke ? not yours. In
the long dull room—with candles lighted. Pale when that is
not sense, but not very wrong—. . ."
(16) September 14, 1901. ". . . M oaves that is the old mistake
—estote looks like a part. On the wall, mola or molina is
more like. Strange it seems that you cannot read. On the left
there are more A V E N T then the word that ends in es and
something after it. Blow hot, blow cold Mosset is a name that
belongs—Pla net or play net. illustre vagatur caelo sine comite
—palely loitering—I cant get it to-night—wait—you will hear later
—do not try. let it come. Modo veniet cum non exspectes—
usque ad illud vale."
(A. said there were points in. the script of Sept. 14.)
(17) September 18, 1901. [after other names and messages having no
connexion with this episode :] "... There is a message for her—
about a knife—on a table, with letters engraved upon it—not
English—(~~ M I ^7 "7T G" t the letters look like that. It is
LIU.] Appendix. &91
a friendly wish Ask her. . . . and there is something dark about
the knife—and flat—curved at the point. . . ."
(A. told me on Sept. 19 that in the above writing there was an
allusion to a point which he had long looked for in what concerns
him, and that when I went to write on the 18th he thought of
this point and fixed his mind upon it.)
(18) September 20, 1901. "Designare iam dudum volui actorem
[or autorem] illius non meorum verborum, illius, dicere velim qui
de ordine loquatur. Doctor est indoctus tamen litteris humanioribus
—fac roges A.W.V. si hoc non verum sit. [then general remarks, then]
The Balfours . . . perhaps—but your husband could tell you all."
(19) October 6, 1901. "... But A.W.V. must be satisfied—he
ought to recognise the long double row What is the word
he wants to complete, neither you nor I know it. so it is hard to
get. It all belongs to him but not to me, his friends but not
mine. No one here knows but one & her I have not met. I
will ask Arthur. ..."
[Then came four pieces of writing with no sort of allusion to the above
incident, then on November 1 after other matter quite irrelevant, as a sort
of signature or termination the following] :
(20) Nov. 1, 1901. " fia\\iSf<TT«pov KCU fLa.\a -oASwij. moles
divan y sur—
MOLDRECAPOTO that's all."
(21) Dec. 12, 1901. "... This is not your husband's" word he
wants a word, but more than a name. Carlton is more like his or
Charleston. But the east comes in to his picture. Stars in the
east, and dawn watched from a window with someone else
a time of some anxiety but there was a successful issue. Ask
Walter Leaf— he must have known."
[Then no more references of any kind till July 1, 1902, when, in the
midst of other matter written in Switzerland, came the follomng :]
(22) July 1, 1902. "Cantaber induperatus and the other word
moleston agon lesto Molliston est /ioAaoro /noXis rb e<rr<u /iaAa S«
wyu no you do not understand leave it till it is clearer, till after
Friday next. E.T.C."
[and after Friday next, namely, on July 7, 1902, after other matter
totally unconnected, the following] :
(23) July 7, 1902. "Now again the word moles n molens
392 Appendix. [PART
sto and Hannibals Saguntum belongs saguns traxit in infinitum
verbum autem breve—cur non scribere potes 1
guns molaguns no nono—"
[Since this there has been no allusion to the subject.]
CLASSIFICATION OF ATTEMPTS AT SENSE AND SOUND OF WORDS IN
THE ABOVE EXPERIMENT.
Note : The figures in brackets refer to the numbers in the preceding list.
SENSE :
1 . aw, dawn ;
"Five stars in the east"(l).
"Yellow is the colour of the dawn" (2).
" a crested Cock that crows is the emblem—not a real bird,
heraldic—with a motto—cano canam albam " (4).
"going towards the east" (5).
"Canta," etc., and attempts at "Chanticlere—" "bell"(?) (7).
" Cups and a cross, the cross between, and a bright light falls
from above etc. ... in the east to the daylight " (8).
" and a heraldic bird in colours—the light comes through, on
a window to the east " (9).
"away in the east like stars" (13).
2. a. povoiria\ov = one horse :
\ " fvnrirov," 'of goodly horses' (17).
UTTTOS," 'one horse' (17).
b. fwvoiria\ov = alone, solitary :
" /KOI/OS IMTO, 6eov ovSe aXAov nvos (alone with God and none
other)" (11).
" Planet or play net illustre vagatur caelo sine comite (bright
it wanders in the sky uncompanioned) palely loitering" (of.
Keats, 'alone and palely loitering') (16).
SOUND OR APPEARANCE OF LETTERS :
1. /J,OVO7Ti,>\OV :
" (one garmented) (3).
MALVIDEA DENDRON " (9).
s, etc." (11).
" Mol—o and 1 before the es " (13).
" moleskin, that is more like, the look not the meaning Pye is.
a bird too but not ours " (14).
LIII.] Appendix. 393
" mollis—Pye gives one clue—pale when " (not unlike irw\ov in
sound) (15).
"blow hot, blow cold" (?) (16).
2. Is, towards :
"The shape of the letters is archaic £C" (9).
"GO agunto, CATUNTO, esagito" (11).
"ecan sunto"(12).
" Mol es to but the €C is the end of a word -es," etc. (13).
"es agiles" (14).
3. d<3. This word seems to be represented by the ag which con
stantly follows the es (see above, under es), and perhaps by
the word ago agone (11).
4. Number of words :
Three words are suggested by the phrases :
"Mol es to," "Tender es fusa," "Banipal and Assur"(13).
" on the left there are more AVENT then the word ends in
es and something after it "(16).
EXTRACTS FROM SCRIPT POSSIBLY BEARING ON OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES
CONNECTED WITH THE INCIDENT.
(A) In A.W.V.'s recollection :
(1) Senate House steps.
Aug. 20. " The long room with the many windows is near
this hot room, he was outside " (6).
Sept. 12. "In the long dull room—with candles lighted" (15).
(2) Others present.
Aug. 20. " dAAoi KCU irdprjcrav. oiSe OVK eSwij^ijcrai/ avreiirev,
awe*? 8f OVK ffiov\fro TO irpSiTov TeAos Sf «<f>dvr]6r] " (6).
Sept. 4. " there were others there but he knew more than
the rest "(12).
Sept. 12. "Both were in it. which of them spoke? not
yours" (15).
(3) A. T. Myers. (?)
Aug. 20. " Arthur can tell you " (6).
Sept. 12. "Both ... not yours "(15).
Sept. 20. " Designare iam dudum volui actorem illius non meorum
verborum, illius, dicere velim qui de ordine loquatur. Doctor
est indoctus tamen litteris humanioribus—fac roges A.W.V.
si hoc non verum sit" (18).
394 Appendix. [PART
Oct. 6. " Designo aliquem tibi et caeteris—olim cognosces.
Arthur is the name, another—not yours" (19).
(4) E. Gurney. No allusion.
(B) In fact, but not in A.W.V.'s recollection :
Other classical Tripos paper.
Sept. 9. "Find the herb moly that will help—it is a guide"
(14).
SCRIPT REFERRING TO FlRST EXPERIMENT WITH MR. CONSTABLE.
SEE CHAP. VIII., P. 168.
November 4, 1902. [With letter.-]
" Hegetor orrovSaios f\Kei irpiariorTTjv rpairefav -ri OVK iv
e\«'s " 7roT> ayye'Aa ruriv , There is something Italian
about not Italian words —but a face—pale with thick black hair
—wait for more. Constantia is more like what I want Constantia
sapit—Kedibit ante septenam cum clavicula avenea—This last word
is important but you do not understand. Not Constantia Clementia
—Clementia sapit. Defer in crastinum—medianum diem ilium.
Bene."
November 5, 1902. [With letter.]
"Olivia felix in portello suo iam mancipum ceteris dedit. This is
not the thing you want—wait for that. Something says Italian
words to-night. sempre cosi. bene sta. it confuses. In tanto
diletto d'amor. you dont know the words. Comperire significa-
tionem huius et alius cuuspiam. non bene sensisti illud—cape
mentem—Fac de integro scribas. Send him this and another—but
I cant get it right. The letter in the envelope is short, on one
side only of the paper : it has been copied from somewhere and
is plain to read. There is a name in it—a long womans name
ending ia and there is a short name like Jack too—at the right
hand end of a line. No more .to-night."
November 7, 1902. [With letter.]
"Constantia redit. one only word. desunt cetera.
darkness surrounds. (letter put down)
* [iam saepe antehac talia volui nee dum possibile erat distinguere
pone epistolam. expecta dum clariora fiunt. Non tu deficis sed
ego. Your message comes through Mrs. Forbes—I am doing that
now-—she is easier—tell her that. Desine desine ne tent averis
novas vias.] "
Lin.] Appendix. 395
November 11, 1902. [With letter.]
" dextra—fecit—iam sume silitum nota. ov\l p6vos e7roi^cre dAAo.
iriii/ frfpip Tivl eppuSeo-Tepw. Send back the letter—it is read.
Moonstone like that a rubies eye, the eye of day not night. Tell
him the morrow's morn—with whispering winds and blare of brass
they went forth. but one by one returned at dead of night. No
sound was there,—Nicholson is the word to explain.
Mrs. Forbes writes of the cedar wood—you cannot find that—
ask about the chest—with the faint smell upstairs—in a room, with
a window on a garden all a maze, ask someone this.
Lux in teuebris et in terra
P a x."
November 18, 1902. [With letter.}
" K. is ill—ask to-morrow. This is the news for you. Curiosa
felicitas—who said that ? It is true. Gurney waits to know—ask
your husband. •
Many a boat — — with shattered sides sailed home from the
summer sea.
[Reference to a vacancy in a Professorship at Cambridge.]
Delancy and delight—do you not see ? End."
November 24, 1902. [With letter.]
" Dolente doloria
I cant do more cant you ask for the message. Leave it now—
it is confusing—Dolour and miserie—araminna—a lady in a house—
masonic. onestonevery well not yet yester day many were
the false reports many messengers came and were admitted—
none brought the news. You will hear from Hodgson —
important he has tried the flowers but without
success. Try other flowers yourself to send—white with a scent—
that helps . He withdrew shuddering, but will visit you again."
* [Note to the above : Nov. 7. Words in brackets are not counted
as forming part of the experiment, as during their production the
envelope was not held.]
NOTES ON SECOND EXPERIMENT WITH MR. F. C. CONSTABLE,
IN NOVEMBER, 1904. SEE CHAP. VIII., P. 172.
Chronological Sequence.
(1) Letter from F.C.C., received November 10, containing:
a. Request to sit.
b. Letter of explanation.
c. Sealed envelope.
396 Appendix. [PART
(2) Answer from M. deG.V. agreeing, saying that she would
take two or three weeks. Written on November 10 or 11.
(3) Automatic writing obtained with sealed envelope held in left
hand :
a. Nov. 18.
b. Nov. 23.
c. Nov. 25.
(4) Letter from M. de G.V. to F.C.C. giving impressions. Nov. 25.
(5) Record in Diary. Nov. 25.
(6) Opening of sealed envelope by M. de G.V. Nov. 28.
(7) Letter from F.C.C., received Nov. 29, containing:
a. Explanatory letter.
b. M. deG.V.'s letter of Nov. 25 returned.
c. Second sealed envelope.
(8) Opening of second sealed envelope. Nov. 29.
(9) Letter from M.de G.V. to F.C.C. returning all documents.
Copies of some of the documents referred to :
(16) "Wick Court near Bristol. 9 Nov. 1904.
Instructions.
Mrs. Verrall is requested to try and get certain automatic writing
while holding or touching the enclosed sealed envelope.
When—by impression—she feels she has obtained the writing
asked for, she is requested to break the seal of the enclosed sealed
letter and read what (if anything) is written within.
Should there be no apparent connection between what (if anything)
is written in the sealed letter and the automatic writing, she is
requested to inform Mr. Constable what the automatic writing
consisted of, Mr. Constable will then communicate again.
Should Mrs. Verrall undertake this experiment she is requested
to carry it out so that a written record may remain for evidence
of what has been done. F. C. CONSTABLE.
11.15 a.m.
9 Nov. 1904."
(lc) [Sealed envelope was addressed :]
Mrs. Verrall.
11.17 a.m.
9 Nov. 1904.
Appendix. 397
[It was sealed with seal bearing initials F.C.C. and was subsequently
endorsed as follows :]
" unopened.
Nov. 28 1904.
A W Verrall."
"opened at 11.30 a.m. on Nov. 28 1904 by M. de G.V."
[It contains :]
" © Fuchsia."
(3a) [Script of Nov. 18, 1904.]
(Nov. 18, 1904. Mr. Constable's letter for the first time. No aut. sc.
attempted since hearing from him except on Nov. 14 in the expt. with
Mrs. £.)
(10 p.m. (study, firelight only.))
"Cousin Clement and a safety pin brooch
It is the unexpected that happens. I have told you that before.
5 or 6 words—they fill more than one line.
These experiments help.
ask her to come.
No more now."
(3b) [Script of Nov. 23, 1904.]
(Nov. 23, 1904. 1 p.m. Study.)
(Mr. Constable's envelope in left hand.)
not yet complete
0
someone has written down a word for you to read—a short word
like what is above.
\
But it was not his own idea it was an experiment suggested by
someone else. Another person holds the other envelope. The word
inside one is mere nonsense just a test, but it is all connected with
the real test of the sealed envelope.
But what is clear is this
There are 2 envelopes and the less important is the one you
hold."
398 Appendix. [PART
(3c) Script of Nov. 25, 1904.
(Nov. 25, 1904, 9.50 p.m. Friday. Study, alone.)
(Mr. Constable's letter.)
" C^—-^ the sign is there—in this envelope as in the other.
why will you not look for it. Tell them that.
Long have they waited we do not know why—but can do no
more. Don't touch her—let her work alone, the touch confuses
In sleep to night we will try. But there is less in the con
tents than in the circumstances—another's suggestion. he only carries
out, and all devised as a preliminary to the real trial."
(4) This letter is endorsed as follows :
Read at Wick 10.10 a.m., 28.11.1904.
Returned by post, 28.11.1904.
F.C.C.
[it is as follows :]
"5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge. Nov. 25 1904.
Dear Mr. Constable,
I have nothing very definite to report about
the envelope, which I have not yet opened. I have sat three times
with it on Nov. 18, 23, and to-night. I have a curious impression
to-night that I ought to write to you, but I really have very little
to say.
My general impression seems to be that the contents of this
letter are less important than the circumstances connected with the
experiment ; that this envelope of yours is one of two ; that the
experiment was suggested to you by someone els.e ; that the whole
thing has some connexion with the question of opening a sealed
envelope of Mr. Myers', and is somehow intended as a preliminary
test before doing it.
I cannot judge how far I have made up all this, and the actual
words of the script are not clear. So far as I can judge, some
envelope contains a drawing [above copied\ and there are attempts
at a short word, but it is not stated that the envelope you have
sent me is the one containing these. What is clearly said is that
there are 2 envelopes and that I hold the less important.
Possibly it may be that both envelopes have some curly design
within them, but one only has the word.
mi.] Appendix. 399
. . . contrary to ray custom, I have more impression than the words
warrant, and so I write this to you. My chief impression is that
this letter should be sent at once !
Yours sincerely,
M. DE G. VERRALL.
I will write to you after opening the envelope."
(5) [Record in Diary, Nov. 25.]
"Nov. 25, 10.20 p.m. strong feeling after aut. sc. with Mr.
Constable's letter that I am to write him my impressions at once ;
I have done so. but they are vague ; that the contents are less
important than the circs. of the expt. ; that the expt. was sug
gested to him by some one else ; that it is connected with the
sealed envelope and meant as a preliminary test; that his envelope
is one of 2, and the less important. These are the chief impres
sions, and the script has made curly drawings and an attempt at
a word."
(6) [For contents of sealed envelope see above, No. lc.]
(7o) " Wick Court near Bristol 28 Nov. 1904.
Dear Mrs. Verrall,
Facts as to present experiment.
I dined with the Council at the last meeting. Three others with
myself were speaking of Mr. Myers' sealed letter. One said 'I
think we have sufficient material now to open Myers' letter.'
I said—I think afterwards—to Professor Barrett or Mr. Feilding
' I doubt the letter test, the letter may read itself to the medium.'
Going home I worried over a test. Could I make a distinction
between the effect of a letter itself on a medium and the thoughts
impressed (on the letter ?) by the writer ?
So I wrote two sealed letters, one after the other. One I sent
you, the other I now enclose, still sealed. So far as I can under
stand you have failed (not altogether) as to the contents and
thoughts of the two letters. But where did you find out the fact
of two letters and (perhaps) the genesis of the two letters ?
I think the experiment was not suggested to me by anyone—I
worked but the idea myself.
Yours gratefully,
F. C. CONSTABLE.
Leave Mrs. Constable's endorsement on the envelope."
400 Appendix. [PART
(7c) [The second sealed envelope was addressed] to F. C. Constable ;
[it was sealed with seal bearing initials F.C.C. and endorsed as
follows :]
" 10 Nov. 1904 L.C."
"from 8.30 to 9.30 I was thinking hard of Elsie Hunt.
10.20 a.m. 10.11.1904. F.C.C."
[" 10 Nov. 1904. L.C." is in a different hand and different ink.]
[It was opened by M. de G. V. on Nov. 29 after reading the ex
planatory letter, and contains the following:]
" Wick Court, near Bristol.
Having written a letter to Mrs. Verrall and certain instructions
and sealed an envelope, all which I address hereafter to Mrs.
Verrall at Cambridge, I think of my mother. I seal this up.
F. C. CONSTABLE.
9.11.1904
11.23 a.m."
(9) [P.S. of letter to Mr. Constable from M. de G. V.]
" I ought perhaps to add that I heard nothing of your conversation
at dinner; I was seated quite at the other end of the table, and
was not aware that the question of opening a sealed envelope had
been discussed."
[Extracts from script enclosed: Nov. 23, all. Nov. 25, 'Don't
touch ' to end.]
t
EXTRACT FROM SCRIPT REFERRING TO EXPERIMENT WITH
MRS. DEW SMITH. SEE CHAP. VIII., P. 173.
April 10, 1903.
" /*ovaSeXc£o« KOI Avcri/mxos Find that out— Then comes Alice
along—tap tap—/iov<xS«A<£os ovSe Avo-ireXijs Soyfiara rois
dXXa TOIS i/>iA<>icr(. aiTo TO />i]/i». xpwaSeXc^oi/ rl <^>avTacr/ia e
—Ti 8f OVK 6py.s j
[drawing of vine leaf pattern]
and a little vine leaf border all round.
Ty crvmSoTi Srj\ov ToSe. crv Se <f>povricra.i.
zrr
Facsimile of Albrecht Dwer's signature
as used by Mr. Dew Smith.
Lin.] Appendix. 401
EXTRACTS FROM SCRIPT REFERRING TO MR. MARSHALL'S
EXPERIMENT. SEE CHAP. VIII., P. 175.
1. May 13, 1904. "Memory impedes—the words are five. I
will get them to morrow. KOI TO.VT' cfyiefyas ovS' fKeiva Aijo-o/iai.
But you must wait."
2. May 14-, 1904. " ]^dva-^ev fia\' «v<£poi/ius 6 v<a<f>p6v."
3. June 5, 1904. "Two foreign words maranthinon telesphoron.
Two long words not in English."
4. Dec. 30, 1904. "Now write these words
Merenthes es to palai—meranthemos S«>re/oos
COMPLETE LIST OF REFERENCES IN SCRIPT TO A. W. VKRRALL.
SEE CHAP. IX., P. 184.
(1) Ap, 22, 1901. "A.W.V. in descriptione impiger ^TEI Zijra
prodest."
(2) May 11, 1901. " SiKawa-vvr] KOI \aP^ (nifuJMOVel crvvfrouriv.
A.W.V. KO.I aAAy TlVl ICTUS."
(3) May 23, 1901. "Diary follows—not yours—you can't get it.
A.W.V. will understand."
(4) June 3, 1901. "Let it go—do not worry—I find it easier
and can soon give a plain message for him who runs not to read—
A.W.V. knows better than you."
(5) June 16, 1901. See App., p. 387.
(6) June 27, 1901. "Things will alter at home soon—not Helen
A.W.V."
(7) July 8, 1901 (Eiffel Alp). "Edmund Gurney helped me at
first—now there is no one but me—We talked together of it,—
in the sunny weather,—in the Cloisters on Sunday before he
knew you. Two of us and then some one came. He has more
nearly carried out his plans than I have—tell him that—A.W.V.—
from me & he will know what I mean. I was wrong in part, I
see now—but not altogether. There was another time in a room,
with a small window, not very light, & blue curtains—that was a
midnight talk."
(8 to 11) Aug. 16, 28, Sept. 20, Oct. 6, 1901. See App., pp. 388-91.
(12) Oct. 12, 1901. "Cantilupe and the old man in the long white
robe with the unjewelled crown. Thus belongs to A.W.V. past
master. Eversley I wanted to say before, and a disaster there."
(13) Nov. 1, 1901. "the lozenge is important. Your husband
knows it. calls it something else—ask him."
2c
402 Appendix. [PAKT
(14) Nov. 4, 1901. "It is the woman's name your husband wants
—it was not Clara—but I see the curve beginning it."
(15) Nov. 22, 1901. "Your husband might know the writing."
(16) Nov. 25, 1901. " I wrote in the Alps about a talk in the
College court on a Sunday with your husband—not for her to recognise
But for him. Then other things were mixed in,—the play and the
rest But now ask him to recollect in the Long—we -talked about
our work His has been largely carried out, mine not. He must
remember. It is is so plain to me. Now sign initials. FMB."
(17) Dec. 5, 1901. "Desn't A.W. remember? the light fell from
the right overhead—and the long white robe moved slowly while they
played."
(18) Dec. 12, 1901. See App., p. 391.
(19) Feb. 27, 1902. "Minnie was the name, and another ask
your husband."
(20) March 10, 1902. "Your husbands cocks have gone away,
but I will tell more later."
(21) March 27, 1902. "Your husband's thought was
good but not complete The old man in white was the
best part of it but I have not been able to finish that, and now
it has all gone away."
(22) April 14, 1902. "The chapel is too light—something has been
taken away was it a cross in the east ask if he noticed—I tried to
show it you don't understand—let me write Cant uar is sedile ubi
nunc gentium ? non tuum respondere. defer alii. The angular
writing, crabbed, comes again, but you will not like this turn the
last letter so no—not that way m s t Verrall Verrall Verrall V
Verrall."
(23) June 29, 1902. "This is an emblem which your husband will
understand."
(24a) Oct. 9, 1902. " Purpur regale in samite odorificatum necnon
insipitum— cum alioquin talia in supellecti videris, tum credere tu
ec alii quidam—purple but not fine raiment lying in a chest it gleams
& a scent is there. It is something laid aside with care that once
was worn. It is far from you you never saw it but Arthur
knows what I mean. He saw it worn. With it now is a lock of
yray hair & a child's letter—much valued.
(24&) to the dark tower came who ? ask him who ? and where ?
The tower was dark and cold, but we all loved it. he will remember
write regularly—there is truth in this."
(25) Oct. 27, 1902. "your husband thinks of something for you
MIL] Appendix. 403
to write—not words There is colour in it—and rapid movement
red as a darting flame. Do not tell him yet—I will write more."
(26a) Oct. 31, 1902. "Now for your husband's thought, it is a
sensation of colour, a vivid colour. Tell him to write down the
thought which was only fragmentary and passing : he will know
what is meant. Do not tell him all this. do not show it, till he
has noted his thought.
(266) I can give you more after a few days—about something in a
drawer—laid away—to be kept, not used though it once was used.
There is a fragrant smell, cedar wood or like that. Go on. folded
and white and shimmering purple with it, and the hair as I told
you and a letter and something besides. a child's letter or toy that
had been kept and was found later. Some one could tell you this
Nettie or Letty Nellie perhaps is the name."
(27) Nov. 18, 1902. "Curiosa felicitas —who said that? It is
true. Gurney waits to know, ask your husband."
(28) Jan. 25, 1903. "you have lost the thread write in London.
Tell your husband that."
(29) Jan. 30, 1903. [after quoting a particular phrase] "ask your
husband what that means."
(30) Aug. 31, 1903. "Hugh will not go abroad next month he
rests. then comes a hurried journey to the south—and the long
break. Do not tell this to Arthur It may not be quite right
perhaps you do not understand but there is sense and truth in it.
you will know before Christmas."
(31) Aug. 21, 1904. "When he has read the papers, all the papers,
he will see what I mean. Chapter and verse, chapter and verse,
tell him that. AWV I mean."
(32) Oct. 3, 1904. "Note the name of the first acquaintance you
meet to-day and tell your husband ; he will understand.
omen occasionis
That will come off— keep open wits."
PASSAGES REFERRING TO OR SHOWING CONNEXION WITH OTHER
" SENSITIVES "—CROSS-CORRESPONDENCES. SEE CHAPS. X. AND
XL, PP. 205-275.
Mrs. Archdale, p. 206.
(1) September 18th, 1901. "Women are bound or abound.
Stewart and Haslemere—what do they here ? Hazelrigg is better."
(2) November 4/A, 1901. "Castlereagh or Hazelre is an uncle,
I think—but I can't see plainly—what is Trigge ? "
404 [PART
Appendix.
(3) November 7th, 1901. "Stewart autem inter alios venit et
ita veritatem confirmavit."
(4) December 22nd, 1901. "Archdall not Archdale."
Mrs. Piper, p. 214.
January 31, 1902 [about 2.45 p.m.]. "Panoptikon o-^cupas aTiraAXet
o-vvSeypx /iixTTi/cbv. ri ovk eSi'Sws ; volatile ferrum—pro telo impinget.
aXAoios 0/J.ov OVK ci$ecr<£aToicri Seoyjovs dSaiSTji/ jrap«/caXfi. a/ivySovrj—os
<r<f>ev86vrj fdvovs Socris yafv/ieya) KJJ/JI no that is not right. He was glad
to get the ring—a bishop's ring" [interrupted at 3.7 p.m.]
[later on same day about 10 p.m. in train from King's Cross to Cambridge.]
"Crux et praeterea nihil. Post sempiternam mansuetudinem
omnia supervacua—in terris. pone superbiam sume togaculnm
caritatis impigre—nutanti adhibe fundamentum roscidulo rore—
sic semper monoicus sine apparatu non sine beneficio universi.
Cur haesitas1? incumbe alieno bacillo. Ita sane desiderium attinges
magna cum gratia sanctissimi.
quod voluisti fecero. En ! "
Mrs. Forbes. See Chap. XL, p. 219.
(1) March 17th, 1901. " Dianae sumus in fide; iterum notare."
(2) March Vlst, 1901. "Ne falle rogatri cem."
(2a) Aug. 28, 1901. "Signa sigillo. Conifera arbos in horta
iam insita omina sibimet ostendit.
[signed as in facsimile]
• (3) September I0th, 1901. "Ask Mrs. Forbes if she has a message
for you—something about G i m a or some such word. Gimadion
looks the length. ,/«/*£ Aids."
Lin.] Appendix. 405
(4) November 22nd, 1901. "Mrs. Thompson and Mrs. Forbes, not
together, you with both. It must be recorded."
(5) December 5th, 1901. "note the hour I will tell someone else
I was here, talbot helping."
(6) December nth, 1901. "Ask Mrs. Forbes what she wrote to-day
your name is not in it, but you would understand—It tried to be
Stewart and Haslemere and about a brook—water running and a
flight of birds."
(7) December Iftth, 1901. "Talbot wrote yesterday or before There
was never any need for explanation."
(8) March 10th, 1902. "Mrs. Forbes has heard, must have heard by
now. There is a letter for you gone astray—it will arrive—remember
this date."
(9) April Uth, 1902. "Mrs. Forbes has got it—for you in the
house, why wait to tell "
(9a) May 12, 1902. " Marybuds no Mary Baltimore was the name.
It is Helen who writes, not you—better than you . . . Marian
Baltimore."
(10) May 16th, 1902. "There is no letter about Marian Baltimore
on the way to you. But Mrs. Forbes will have a message for you next
week."
(11) May 18th, 1902. " Now this is other, Mrs. Forbes will write to
you this week something in a drawer she wants you to look for—
a dark would drawer on the right hand side you are to ask and send
her word, when you hear from her."
(12) July 13th, 1902. " On such an eve of storm the message came
across the water far away—she will not write nor (interrupted) no
letter for you—she has not understood—but you will hear later—this
is for you—to help. Count three and five and write then—and
on the 23rd of the month. The words are for you and none other, but
they went to Mrs. Forbes—ask her. The message is for you—about
the water—she will know that. You have not seen the lilies, my
lilies. Tell her I said that.
Talbot
No other message to night, write later as I said.
H. do the signature better H."
(12a) July 23, 1902. "Double discharge— but do not ask.
Cur resolvere nolis ? pertemptanti facillimum et si tu nescis.
Boga— roga— rogare semper.
406 Appendix. [PART
Malleolus pro te— pro illo autem mansuescit in manu—
Monsignor catholicus presbyter in terra non loutana
ab ista rem probabit— nomen recipe. Longinqua scribere debuisti
lingua nou bene uteris. Romenzana hoc est nomen illius
qui claviculam cuViy/iaros tibi tradere potest. En etiam
Clemens inest nominibus illius. Nec plura de illo.
Hodie mane aliquid in Britanniarum pusilla insula evenit,
quod amicis tuis magnum refert. Fac scribas— iam tibi diem
pronotavi—antehac, sed non possum angustiora describere. Even-
tum non reipublicae amico autem— It is interesting to a friend.
Note the date. H."
(13) October 27<A, 1902. "Try to understand. Mrs. Forbes has
the other words—piece together. Add hers to yours. . . .
Write more often Talbot will help—all through November."
(13a) Oct. 31, 1902. "You have not understood all—try further.
She has had some words incomplete to be added to and
pieced and make the clue. . . .
Now for your husbands thought—it is a sensation of colour, a
vivid colour. Tell him to write down the thought which was only
fragmentary and passing : he will know what is meant. Do not tell
him all this—do not show it, till he has noted his thought.
I can give you more after a few days— about something in a
drawer—laid away—to be kept, not used, though it once was used.
There is a fragrant smell, cedar wood or like that. Go on (end of
page).
Folded and white and shimmering purple with it, and the hair
as I told you and a letter and something besides. a child's
letter or toy that had been kept and was found later.
Someone could tell you this. Nettie or Letty Nellie
perhaps is the name."
(14) November 7ih, 1902. "Your message comes through Mrs.
Forbes—I am doing that now—she is easier—tell her that."
(15) November llth, 1902. " Mrs. Forbes writes of the cedar wood
—you cannot find that—ask about the chest—with the faint smell
—upstairs—in a room, with a window on a garden all a maze.
Ask someone this."
(16) December 26*A, 1902. " Mrs. Forbes will get the words I
want, but wait—happy is the hour let your thoughts follow her,
do not write."
(17) January 1$th, 1903. " Mrs. Forbes has sent it to you—or
uii.] Appendix. 407
should have by now ; she has got nearer and will get the word.
Write more often this month—we can do more now for you. Your
husband's test goes forward, Mrs. Forbes gets that better than you
do—write regularly—there will be news for you to write next week
—good news before the month is out."
(18) January 21s/, 1903. "wait for the word from Mrs. Forbes.
The paper is hid in your house and should be found."
(19) February 2nd, 1903. " Harriet de Vane."
(20) February 23rd, 1903. "Mrs. Forbes has got a message but
not about the word, you must wait for that. . . .
It has helped them & you will get a message now plain to
read, send this to her."
(21) March llth, 1903. "Mrs. Forbes has got the other word—
and will send it—not Symposium, but it helps and is clear. I
don't think she knows it is for you—but you will understand."
(22) March 15th, 1903. "Mrs. Forbes is slow but she has
something which you have not seen."
(23) April 2nd, 1903. " Mrs. Forbes has gone home ask her to
write next week on Wednesday—she will know why."
(24) June 29tt, 1903. "Mrs. Forbes has lost your clue—she
cannot get it now."
(25) July nth, 1903. "Mrs. Forbes has something which should
settle the date—it fills your gap."
(26) July 3lst, 1903. "The picture in the picture frame—upon
the wall—and no name upon it—in her room—ask Mrs. Forbes.
She has thought lately of the picture and will remember [temporary
interruption]
ask Mrs. Forbes whether she knows the likeness in the picture
—she may know Go into the gallery at Venice, the lady with
the pearls. [here follows description of unidentified portrait]
more another time—but ask Mrs. Forbes if she knows . . . more
through Helen later. Do not tire her."
(27) October 6th, 1903. "Mrs. Forbes comes home this week and
will have a message for you. But she found no picture at Venice.
She has had a success while she was away—ask about it. Her
mother will want her much this winter—she will be in the south."
(28) October 7th, 1903. "Write to Mrs. Forbes—tell her not to
look for the chain—any other trinket will do as well. That is not
quite right, but I think she will understand."
408 Appendix. [PART
(29) October 30th, 1903. "Send this blue forget me nots tied with
short lengths of ribbon—ask Mrs. Forbes to send you a flower."
(30) November 23rd, 1903. " Mrs. Forbes has a special message
for you which you will understand
dAAo Tl OvSf CTOi /AOvfj
Ores cent saecla
Crenent crest [drawing of Gurwood crest\. look up that for help.
Gurney wrote the word ask Mrs. Forbes." [drawing of four
petalled flower]
(31) January 9th, 1904. " Solacia attamen eiusdem doloris nec
mihi nec tibi attinget—ab aliis accipere debes : post septimam diem
omnia comprehendere potes. Fac scribas die septimo decimo."
(32) January 25th, 1904. "Mrs. Forbes message was wrong listen
to this : A letter from Mr. Forbes to her at Cranford will go this
month."
(33) July 15th, 1904. "I cannot get the Greek words to Mrs.
Forbes."
(34) October 3rd, 1904. "Ella Forbes my cousin send the
letter to her It is long since you wrote."
(35) October IQth, 1904. "Tell this.
in the fire-lighted room she and the dog alone, and the thought
came to her as she held up the screen before the fire—and the dog
stirred in his sleep—he felt that I was there.
It was only for a moment—but the scene was plain."
(36) December 21st, 1904. " Wait now and write regularly—I
will send a message about this through Mrs. Forbes—do not ask
for it—it may take time."
(37) December 28th, 1904. "I want to confirm it through Mrs.
Forbes but she has not understood. I waut her to write and
sympathise with the failure & not to know what it is. I shall
try all this week—wait for her letter & help. Think of her
often send a message to her in mind to write & say she is
sure you are disappointed.
If not by Monday next it is too late for evidence—she will hear
the facts on Monday next."
(38) January 6th, 1905. " Mrs. Forbes has been anxious this
week but the anxiety is less now—I could not make her hear what
I wanted her to write to you—but ask to see what she wrote on
Monday. She could help if you saw her—can you not see her soon 1
1 I wish you would meet."
LIII.] Appendix. 409
LIST OF CORROBORATIVE DOCUMENTS IN REGARD TO CORRESPOND
ENCES WITH MRS. FORBES. SEE CHAP. XI.
The Roman numerals refer to the number of the incidents in the account
in the text.
(I.) Note in note-book Feb. 28th, 1901, 9.30 A.M.
Note in diary March 4th, 1901, 8.45 A.M.
Letter from Mrs. F. March 3rd, 1901.
Confirmation by A.W.V. and Miss A. Johnson.
(II.) Notes in script book March 17th, 1901, 3.55 and 4 P.M.
Note in diary March 18th, 11.30 A.M., and March 20th,
10.45 A.M.
Letter from Mrs. F. March 19th.
(III.) Note in diary March 29th, 1901, 10.30 A.M.
Letters from Mrs. F. March 25th and April 16th, 1901.
(IV.) Note in diary Nov. 26th, 1901.
Note in script book Nov. 18th, 1901.
Note in script book Nov. 26th, 9.30 A.M.
Letter from Mrs. F. Nov. 16th, 1901, with aut. sc. enclosed.
(V.) Note in script book Sept. 21st, 9 A.M., 1901.
Letter from Mrs. F. October 28th, 1901.
(VI.) Letter from Mrs. F. October 28th and 30th, 1901.
(VII.) No documents.
(VIII.) Note in diary Nov. 26th, 1901.
Letter from Mrs. F. Nov. 25th, 1901.
(IX.) Note in script book Dec. 6th, 1901, 11.30 A.M., and Dec. 8th,
5.30 P.M.
Letters from Mrs. F. Dec. 5th and Dec. 7th.
(X.) Note at Brighton on Dec. 18th, 1901.
Note in script book Dec. 20th, 1901.
Note in diary Dec. 22nd, 11.45 A.M., 1901.
Letter from Mrs. F. Dec. 16, 1901.
(XI.) Note in script book Dec. 20th, 1901.
Letter from Mrs. F. Dec. 19th, 1901.
(XII.) No documents.
(XIII.) Entry in diary Jan. 11th, 1902, 9.45 A.M., and Jan. 12th,
10.50 A.M.
Letter from Mrs. F. Jan. 10th, 1902.
410 Appendix. [PART
(XIV.) Records of table-tilting Feb. 23rd, March 8th, 1902.
Letters from Mrs. F. on March 3rd, 5th, llth, 1902.
(XV.) Note in script book March 11th, 9.30 A.M., 1902.
(XVI.) Notes in diary Jan. 18th, 1901, March 24th, 1902, March
26th, 1902.
Letters from Mrs. F. March 22nd, 25th, 1902.
(XVII.) Note in diary April 6th, 1902.
Letter from Mrs. F. March 31st, 1902.
(XVIII.) Note in diary April 25th, 1902.
Note in script book April 18th, 1902.
(XIX.) Notes of Planchette sittings May 5th and May 8th, 1902.
Letter from Mrs. F. May 6th, 1902.
(XX.) Notes of Planchette sittings May 10th and May 13th, 1902.
Note in script book May 13th, 1902.
Letter from Mrs. F. May 12th, 1902.
(XXI.) Letter from Mrs. F. May 31st, 1902.
(XXII.) No documents.
(XXIII.) Notes of Planchette sittings May 30th, 1902.
(XXIV.) No documents.
(XXV. and XXVI.) Note in script book Aug. 6th, 1902.
Letter to Mrs. F. from M. deG. V. on July 14th, 1902.
Letter to Mr. Piddington from M. deG. V. on July 14th,
1902.
Post-card to Mr. Piddington from M. deG. V. July 14th,
1902 (later post).
Letters from Mrs. F. July 11th, July 17th, July 22nd, July
25th, July 30th, 1902.
Detailed statement by Mr. Piddington corroborating above
dates on August 9th, 1902.
(XXVII.) Note in script book October 31st, 1902, and Dec. 14tb,
1902.
Note in diary Oct. 31st, 1902.
Letters from Mrs. F. Oct. 30th and Nov. 17th, 1902.
(XXVIII.) Note in diary Nov. 4th, 1902.
Note in script book Nov. 5th, 1902.
Letters from Mrs. F. Nov. 2nd, 1902 (endorsed by
Mr. Piddington, Nov. 4th1 and Dec. 18th, 1902.
(XXIX.) No documents.
(XXX.) No documents.
Lin.] Appendix. 411
(XXXI.) Notes in script book Nov. 28th, 10 A.M. and 6.45 P.M.
Note in diary Nov. 28th, 1902, 10 A.M. and 6.30 P.M.
Letter from Mrs. F. Nov. 27th, 1902.
Copy of Trinity College Lecture Room Translation paper
Nov. 21st, 1902.
(XXXII.) Note on script of Nov. 28th, 1902, sent before Dec.
15th to Miss Johnson.
Note in script book Dec. 19th, 1902.
Note in diary Dec. 19th, 1902.
Letter from Mrs. F. of Dec. 18th, 1902, sent about
Dec. 20th to Sir Oliver Lodge with own script of
Dec. 19th.
(XXXIII.) Letter from Mrs. F. of Dec. 21st, 1902.
(XXXIV.) Mrs. F.'s original script of Jan. 6th, 1902, Jan. 11th,
her copy of Feb. 20th, original of March 2nd, and
of April 1st with her copy, all in letters posted at
or about dates of writing.
(XXXV.) Note in diary Jan. 5th and Jan. 7th, 1903.
Note in script book Jan. 22nd, 1903.
Letters from Mrs. F. Jan. 3rd and 4th, 1903.
(XXXVI.) Mrs. F.'s original script of Jan. 6th, 1903.
(XXXVIL) Note in script book Jan. 22nd and 23rd, 1903.
Note in diary Jan. 23rd, 1903.
Mrs. F.'s letters of Jan. 20th and Jan. 24th, 1903.
(XXXVIII.) Note on original script and in script book Jan. 18th,
1903.
Note in diary of Jan. 19th, 1903.
Mrs. F.'s letter of Jan. 20th, 1903.
(XXXIX.) Note in script book Jan. 22nd, 1903.
(XL.) Note in script book Jan. 25th and 27th, 1903.
Note in diary Jan. 30th, 1903.
Letters from Mrs. F. Jan. 22nd and 25th, 1903.
(XLI.) Note in script book Feb. 5th, 1903.
Post-card from Mrs. F. Feb. 4th, 1903.
(XLII.) Note in diary Feb. 24th, 1903.
Separate statement on Feb. 24th, 1903.
Letter from Mrs. F. Feb. 20th, 1903.
Original script from Mrs. F. of Feb. 22nd and 23rd
(script of Feb. 23rd sent to Sir Oliver Lodge with
own script of Feb. 23rd).
412 Appendix. [PART
(XLII.) Answers to questions from Mrs. F. (undated), Mrs.
Baltimore Feb. 26th and Alfred Feb. 26th, 1903.
(XL1II.) Letter from Mrs. F. March 19th, 1903.
(XLIV.) Note in script book April 10th, 1903.
Note in diary April 4th, 1903.
Mrs. F.'s letters April 1st and April 6th, 1903.
(XLV.) Note in diary April Hth, 1903.
Letter from Mrs. F. April 11th, 1903.
(XLVI.) No documents.
(XLVII.) Note in script book May 2nd, 1903.
Mrs. F.'s letter May 2nd, 1903.
Detailed account written May 12th-14th, 1903.
(XLVI1I.) Mrs. F.'s letters May 11th and 12th, 1903.
Contemporary account May 12th-14th, 1903.
(XLIX.) No documents.
(L.) Detailed account written August 12th, 1903.
Mrs. F.'s letter July 2nd, 1903.
(LI.) Mrs. F.'s letter July 10th, 1903.
(LII.) No documents.
(LIII.) Note in diary August 24th, 1903.
Letter from Mrs. F. July 30th, 1903.
Note of experiment on July 26th in envelope posted
by Mrs. F. on July 26th, received July 27th, and
opened July 31st, 1903.
Letter to Mrs. F. from M. deGr. V. on Aug. 24th, 1903,
with Mrs. F.'s notes upon it received Aug. 28th, 1903.
Copy (July 27th) of H.'s script of July 26th and
August 23rd (copied Aug. 24th) with annotations.
(LIV.) Note in script book Aug. 10th and Aug. 16th, 1903.
Letter from Mrs. F. Aug. 9th, 1903.
Note of August 2nd, 1903.
(LV.) Note of Aug. 16th, 1903.
Mrs. F.'s script of August 11th, 1903, and letter.
Corroboration by M.A.B.
Note in script book August 16th, 1903.
Contemporary account Aug. 12th, with additional note
Aug. 21st, 1903.
(LVI.) Note in diary Aug. 20th, 1903.
Mrs. F.'s letter Aug. 19th, 1903.
LIII.] Appendix. 413
(LVII.) Note in script book October 9th, 1903, and Dec. 6th,
1903.
Note in diary Oct. 12th and Oct. 18th, 1903.
Letters from Mrs. F. Oct. 8th and Dec. 5th, 1903.
Diary for date of Mrs. F.'s visit to me.
(LVIII.) Note in diary Nov. 5th, 1903.
Letter from Mrs. F. Oct. 27th, 1903.
(LIX.) Note in script book Dec. 6th, 1903.
(LX.) Note in script book Nov. 28th, 1903.
Note in diary Nov. 28th, 1903.
Note on copy of H.'s script of Nov. 29th on Nov. 30th,
1903.
(LXI.) No documents.
(LXII.) Note in script book Jan. 16th, 1904, and Jan. 27th, 1904.
Letters from Mrs. F. Jan. 12th, Jan. 22nd, Jan. 28th
1904.
(LXIII.) No documents.
(LXIV.) Notes of Planchette writing April 13th, 1904.
Mrs. F.'s letter of April 16th, 1904.
(LXV.) Note in diary July 22nd, 1904.
Letter from Mrs. F. July 13th and July 17th, 1904.
(LXVI.) Note in script book Oct. 16th, 1904.
Letter from Mrs. F. Oct. 15th, 1904.
(LXVII.) Note in script book Oct. 18th and Oct. 21st, 1904.
Note in diary Oct. 21st and Oct. 25th, 1904.
Contemporary account on Oct. 28th, 1904.
Letters from Mrs. F. Oct. 15th, Oct. 17th, Oct. 19th, and
Oct. 24th, 1904.
Questions sent to Mrs. F. and returned with answers in
her letter of Oct. 24. See below.
LXVIII. Note in script book Jan. 10th, 1905.
Letter from Mrs. F. Jan. 11th, 1905.
Questions sent to Mrs. Forbes on Oct. 20, 1904, with her answers,
received on Oct. 25.
"On Sunday, October 16, when you wrote:
(1) was it in the drawing-room?
Ans. Yes.
(2) was there only firelight ?
Ans. There was a small lamp behind me, but little light.
41-t Appendix. [PART
(3) was one dog, and one only in the room 1
Ans. Yes.
(4) did the dog stir in his sleep 1
Ans. The dog often stirs; he lay by my feet. I could not say
whether he stirred at any special moment.
(5) had you a screen in your hand?
Ans. Only a piece of paper.
(6) had you any thought of the door to the greenhouse 1
Ans. The door to the greenhouse was open. I always think of it
before I settle down to read or write as I see for myself that it is
open."
COPY OF PASSAGE FROM PLATO'S SYMPOSIUM SET FOR TRANSLATION
IN TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE, ON Nov. 21, 1902. SEE
CHAP. XL, P. 242.
Kai rf ye\dcrao-a, Kcu TTWS av, f<f>^], & Sw/cpares, 6/xoAoyoiTO /xeyas
6«5s «ivou Trapd TOVTCOV, 01 ifraa-iv avrbv ovSe 6et>v eivai ; Ti'ves OVTOL ; ijv
8' eyw. E?s fiiv, f<f)rj, ov, /jla 8' ey<a. Kaya> flirov, IIws TOVTO, e<pijV,
Aeyeis ; Kai rj, 'PaSiws, fcf>r]. Aeye yap /ioi, ov Trairas deovs <£rjs
evSaifiiovas eTvai KOI /caAovs ; fj roA/i^<rais av TLVO. firj ipdvai, /caAdv T«
Kal evSaifiova 6ftav eivai ; Ma Ai" OVK eyiay\ «<f>rjv. EvSa^ovas Se 8rj
Aeyeis ov TOI>S raya^a /cai TO. /caAa KCKTijfievovs ; Haw ye. "AAAd /xi)v
*Ep<UT<£ yt di/ioXoyijKas Si' evSeiav Tiav dyadiav «ai KaAwi/ tiru6vfiieiv airriav
rovriav &v ei/Seijs «TTIV. '0/ioAoyijKa yap. Ileus av ovv ^«os «?1j o ye Tiav
KaAdiv Kal dyadiav a/AOipos ; OvSa/iais, <5s y' IOIKCV. '0p^is oSv, I<^1J, ori
/cai crv "Epiara ov 6euv vo/iif«S -, Ti o?v av, l<^»jv, eiry 6 "Epcas ; GvrfTos ;
"H/cio-Ta ye. 'AAAa Ti /x^v; "OoTrep ra irporepa., e<fnj, fiera^v 6VT^TOV /cai
a^avaroi;. Ti ovv, & ALOTI/J.H ; Aai/Aiav /iieyas, <5 SwK/aares- /cai yap irav
rb Sai/idviov fiera^v f<rTi 6fov re Kal ffvrfrov. Tiva ^v 8' ey<a, 8vva/iiv
f\ov ; 'Ep/irjVfvov Kal Siairop^/ievov t^eois ra Trap" dv^piuTraJV /cai dv6piairois
Ta irapa 6eiav, T<av ptv rds Se^cr«is Kai ^vcrias, Taiv Se Tas ejrira^eis T« Kai
d/xoi/Jds Tiiiv ^vcriwv, ev /xecry Se oi/ dfufrorepiav a-ifir\rjpol, <5a-T« TO irav
avTO arTy ^vvS«Seo-/9ai. Sia TOVTOV Kal ij fiavriKr] iraa-a XMPe^ Ka' T T'*1'
iepewv Te\vrj T<av re irepl Tas flwrias /cai Tas TeXeTas Kal Tas onjiSas Kai
Tr)v fiavrfiav iraa-av Kal yoijT«iav. (9«ds 8e av6piajrip av /iiyvvTai, dXAd
Sia TOVTOV TraVci OTTIV ij 6/iiAia Kai 1j SidXeKTos /9eois jrpos dv^panrovs, (cai
fyprjyopwri Kal Ka6evSoixri- Kal 6 /iev ir«pi Ta ToiavVa o"o^)os
dvijp, 6 Se aXXo TI O"o^>os wi/ ^ jr«pi Te^vas 1j \fipovpyia's Tivds /
ovToi SJj 01 Sai/xov«s TroAAoi Kai 7ravToSaTroi eio-iv, eis Se TOVTCUV COTI /cai o
*Epu>s.
Lin.] Appendix. 415
EXTRACTS FROM SCRIPT REFKRRING TO WOULD-BE EVIDENTIAL
MATTER CONCERNING EVENTS IN THE PAST. SEE CHAP. XII.
(The numbers in brackets refer to the numbering in the text.)
(1) Lost hat.
August 13th, 1901. "hat—a black hat in a box belonging to
him was lost something blue near it. Ask—you know this—a
blue tie in the hat."
(2) Dormitory notice.
January 8th, 1902. " Everitt is the name he looked for—long
ago—in a dormitory notice angelus I think—Three windows and
the notice to the right. He stood and looked—a black-haired boy.
It was a relief not to see the name. Ask about this."
(3) Cloisters of Trinity College, Cambridge.
a. July 8th, 1901. "You have got it partly right but he knows
better what I mean. Edmund Gurney helped me at first—now
there is no one but me.—We talked together of it,—in the
sunny weather,—in the Cloisters on Sunday before he knew
you. Two of us and then someone came. He has more nearly
carried out his plans than I have—tell him that—A.W.V.—from me
& he will know what I mean. I was wrong in part, I see now
—but not altogether. There was another time in a room, with a
small window, not very light, & blue curtains—that was a mid
night talk. Could you find the play ? " [See No. 7.]
b. November 25th, 1901. "I wrote in the Alps about a talk
in the College Court on a Sunday with your husband—not for her
to recognize but for him. Then other things were mixed in,—the
play and the rest But now ask him to recollect in the Long—
we talked about our work. His has been largely carried out, mine
not. He must remember. It is so plain to me. Now sign initials.
F.M.B."
(4) Basket with fruit.
a. July I7th, 1901. "A basket with fruit in it, grapes per
haps. It has a handle [sketch of basket] BO—light osier work.
Someone lifted the leaves to look at the purple fruit, by the sea
side I think, Margate or Ramsgate. I was there—I saw it—two
windows not a large room—and a sofa near the light who sent
the grapes ? were they grapes t No more tonight I can't but will
sign." [Attempts at " Sidgwick."]
416 Appendix. [PART
6. August 7th, 1901. "The basket had open work
pattern—no lid. Cant she remember ? The basket was more im
portant than the fruit—it was used for something else afterwards."
c. September \th, 1901. "The basket had grapes—she ought to
know."
d. December 10th, 1901. " It was at Margate look at ihe date of the
letter to you abroad. I was there. I took the grapes. You forget."
(5) Kiver "Dovinans."
a. March 31st, 1901. "Dovinantis sub imagine ripae."
I. April 8th, 1901. "Dovinantis ripae flumen monstr avi alicui
exepeta,"
c. May 1st, 1901. "Dovinantis in ripa."
d. May 8th, 1901. "Doverfield that's what it is. A man walking
—is it Dovercourt? Dover hoc volui iamdudum scribere."
May 23rd, 1901. "Dominans in ripa stetit hagiologus."
March 1%th, 1902. " Dover has been given you long ago. Dover
court I think."
g. April 2nd, 1903. "In ripis Douern."
(6) Manuscript Play.
a. June 30th, 1901. "a lost play, planned, sketched out, not
complete, hardly begun with childish papers. She will know—about
a conquest, was it in the east, others knew, almost at school
no at Cambridge.—on square white paper—in a crabbed hand.
• my sister would know certainly."
J. July ±th, 1901. "Ella or Elea is part of a name. Tamatha
Thamartra—something like that—you do not know. The sheets
were square—the writing very close—no margin on the right—
there must be 20 or 30 of them the ink is quite faded. It was
talked about,—children somehow belong But she will know. It
was more thought of than written. Martin or Martinmas—is it
Michaelmas ? Do not search."
c. July 8th, 1901. "Could you find the play? Is it lost? It
was a great scheme. Tamburlane—that's not the word I want—
Tamil, or Thummam—a Hebrew looking word & a woman's name.
The form was odd that was new—long lines." [See also above, No.
3 for context.]
(7) Garden.
a. April \4th, 1901. "Litteris quattuordecim verbum significa-
tione \I/V\I.KTI de horto roscidulo quo incolit ipse. si modo potes ! "
LIU.] Appendix. . 417
b. June 3rd, 1901. "Roscidulo iacet in horto semper etsi tu non
sapis—ne rogaveris—ne dixeris. . . . sempervirens hortulus
thesauros condidit—quaerere semper."
c. August 23rd, 1901. "a garden in the sun and a wind
measurer not a sundial. He stands beside."
d. September 7th, 1901. "In the long green avenue—go down
and you will find it—a round white stone on the ground [oval
drawn] nothing inscribed."
e. Oct. 6, 1901. "walking down a garden path—in a level sun
light—to a white house, yews. the garden. years ago."
/. December 5th, 1901. "Holy or holly not a stick—a tree, I
think—arbustum in horto meo ubi semper pedes ponebam ambulans
it is easier in Latin. ibi cur non sine aliis sola venis 1 iam diu et
saepissime rogavi te ut talia facias—non interponere moras—fac, in
praesenti— The white stone belongs to this series."
g. January 17, 1902. "Along the way,—down through the trees
is the white stone. Why no inscription 1 "
h. August 22, 1903. "In the garden go alone & write then for
the certainty."
i. September 17, 1903. "The desolate garden has helped you to
the thought & the knowledge will come, but not yet."
(8) Inscription.
a. March 14, 1901. " hieroglyphema sane marmario glyptato non
sine caelato quid dicam stellato cultellario." [signed x x x ]
b. April 8, 1901. "scripsi illud & fmrala peirovo-a hieroglyphemata
/uoi ponens Stellato cultellario vel faxis inscriptione porcellina in
marmoreo topho glyptata sacri canentis fesulae more pavonis."
[followed later by x. x x] •
c. August 28, 1901. [preceded by drawing of sun-dial and x x x ;
see above, p. 389] " Now write the word—it runs round a dial or
font—look from above [illegible single letters] longer than that—
cut on grey stone glyptatus in marmoreo lapide cultellario."
(9) Phrase for Dr. Hodgson.
Quotations completely given in text, p. 282.
(10) Veridical case.
October 12, 1901. "Give it to her—yarn a tangled skein.
Veridical is the case—see what you have said."
2D
418 Appendix. [PART
(11) Fire.
May 27, 1901. "Cressid (or Aessid) is the word, in Aeneade
—non possum scribere maximam diligentiam adhibens—semper abundat
error. Nee opinanti facilius—tempus adnotare. Flagravit in ruinas
domus dehiscens. Dominus absens tabulae periere (interrupted then
resumed) caminus nigram harenam extulit. It stinks in the nostril
odor infamis crepitant flammae deflagratio magna bene
notanda—incolae omnes turbati adsunt. ventus impedit saluti—
tandem advenit fuscator magno equtum sonitu—salutat turba
a lambent micant—cessit in vaporem. Tum fit deploratio magna
non sine gemitu lacrimisque. Talia vidi recenti tempore. talia
si describas sine remissione patefiat veritas."
(12) Waters of Omar.
December 7, 1903. "The letter is at your house that explains
— goodguidanc e— and the waters of Omar."
(13) Neo-Platonists.
a. March 15, 1901. " optima dierum."
Aj/ril 3, 1901. "optima dierum et insuper diem mitte
unam."
6. May 3, 1901. "crastino die."
May 31, 1901. "defer in crastinum diem."
October 17, 1901. "plurima cras vel crastino die."
d. October 12, 1904. "Ter et quater renovare viam."
e. June 30, 1901. " SijXijT^piov SeXrov aSeX<^>5s Sf\<friic[] o/j-'I'H
X/Jijo-fTai ingenium adhibe. pone mentem tuam, inter-
pretationem caecam veritatis Dei."
/. April 27, 1901. " Fac Dic. faceto dicto. nomen nescis—
sed non semper sic erit."
g. April 20, 1901. "viriliter aspecta Tpoiras ijeAioio."
June 23, 1901. "solsituo die iam exacto."
h. April 22, 1901. "Cardo napKivov si non istaec tentare
alia ne desperaveris."
i. January 20, 1903. See App., p. 377.
March 7, 1903. See App., p. 377.
j. March 20, 1903. " Never when the wind blows from out
of the East , but on the Western breeze it comes
with sound of bells and music heard afar. Ask about
this."
mi.] Appendix. 419
(14) Hills in Rome.
a. April 24, 1901. "imponere multum minanti saporem pinguis
terrae revolventis in K<xr/up Caelicolosus vel alium non dissimile.
cur verba inhiat manus ! ypa<£e /id\.a iv SeXrois d\ij6eia Sf\ro—
ypdfaiv perfacile. deest interpretatio optima sprerare semper, infit
carmen laudis magnae. You have not seen Hodgson's letter, wait
for that. Birmingham to Cambridge. Do nothing—wait."
b. July 30, 1901. "caelius mons iam in scriptura ante hunc diem
apparuit—notare—you have it not quite right. Try again."
c. April 20, 1901. " dp«iroyeiTovl payy Koo-pov Tpi,86v\ov. alopex
non sine vulture in monte Citorio, pes manco."
d. June 3, 1901. "Ecquid pretii in avibus ? nullum sine vulture
in Apulo. Mons Citorius sacer est, multum tibi adiuvimentum."
e. June 27, 1901. "mons montium caecus. in apice sedet super
sedilia circumspectans ne monueris."
/. June 14, 1903. " L. knows the secret of the mound, ask
her."
g. July 4, 1901. "Dogana."
(15) Columella.
July 3, 1904. "In September remember the 19th Columella.
It is then the fulfilment will be, the event has already been fore
told. Then Astraea Redux & the rest of it—Hodgson's constellation
will be plain to him when he sees the rest—as he will. That star
is visible in winter nights Auriga Capellae : it was one winter night
that the star and the resolve flashed out together, & the shape
of his life was thus determined, though not carried out for four
more years."
[Note. 'Hodgson's constellation' and ' Auriga Capellae' with the sub
sequent statement about 'four more years ' were intelligible to Dr. Hodgson
though meaningless to me. But in the absence of a detailed statement from
D)\ Hodgson no account of the incident is included in this paper.]
(16) Three letters.
a. September 22, 1903. " Henry Sidgwick has a message to
give before Christmas, through you if possible .... But
you must give another message correctly first and then ask her to
open my envelope."
b. October 4, 1903. (Description of a pocket-book containing a paper and
photograph, date June, 1872.)
c. October 7, 1903. "Henry Sidgwick's message is next to
come, it is about 3 letters kept together not of the same date
420 Appendix. [PART
—two are in the original envelopes—but the third is loose. I can't
see whose the letters are, but he valued them. Just these three
were always together.
more about that later—it will be quite clear to you.
Tell Piddington to ask Mrs. Thompson about Sidgwick's three
envelopes."
d. October 8, 1903. "Sidgwick has not got the message right yet.
the letters are not valuable but have always been kept to
gether— read some words in one of them. June 1872. is the date
—June 9th I think—and the writing is small and not hard to read.
yesterday's talk is a phrase the letter is from
a man This is the one with no envelope."
e. October 10, 1903. "You are not right yet about Sidgwick's
message, do not hurry—ask Mrs. Sidgwick if she can tell you a
question to put at the first chance—you will be in direct communi
cation with one of us soon & should be able to ask a question
about Sidgwick to which she knows the answer and you do not.
Let this be your test. That is all to-day. Try on Monday.
June 9th —/72 Cambridge.
I had a talk with him about his work to-day—he is mature for
his years, and will, I feel sure, leave his mark on us here, in
a new line. He is one. of the most promising of the younger men,
but he will be the better when the influence of the place has
softened the roughness left by the lack of sympathy for school
outlook and life."
/. October 12, 1903. "About the letters—write—They are in a
cabinet with other papers—in my room. One letter tells a piece of
news and was kept for that, that is in an envelope and the other
has something inside it, something loose that might flutter out.
Dont ask Mrs. Sidgwick yet See Mrs. Thompson first if you
can. it is much easier when someone else helps. you have not
got it right yet. let him say it plainly
—I 1 was arranged that he should refer to these 3
letter s."
[Note. The spacing represents a large handwriting in the original.]
g. December 25, 1903. "But you have not Sidgwick's message clear.
Try that. Mrs. Sidgwick would know about the three letters in
the cabinet one with no envelope."
h. December 26, 1904. "Mrs. Sidgwick knows the letters in the
cabinet, ask her."
LIII.] Appendix. 421
i. January 1, 1904. "The three letters will give the answer
wanted. But the diary would complete."
j. January 29, 1904. "The letters are kept by some one—those
we told of—you have not asked the right person—find the letters."
(17) Small book.
a. April 27, 1904. "The little book should help—on the table
by the door in her room—in a soft flexile binding with gilt
lettering. Look inside short sentences like your own Thomas
a Kempis. The book has a marker or opens naturally at a
place—read the words. So he goes on his way and his place
knows him no longer. But the work is done, the lesson learnt, the
world is different for the life lived in it, and leave the future
till the time of knowledge comes. The ' mark has been made
here, that at least is certain, and should be enough—Hope, Faith,
Charity—who can say ? But ask and you shall know—Ask Ask—
The message is not mine but I have tried to say it to you."
b. May 11, 1904. "It was a flat green book, lying edgewise on
the table & the letters on it in gold letters. The binding is
flexible & projects beyond the leaves of the book. The printing
inside leaves wide margins. The sentences are short and broken.
Take it and open where the mark is then read the second para
graph. That will the words she wants in answ [drawings of cross
heart anchor] and the greatest of these three. Write the other
words. You found exactly the same idea in your own book when
you took the Sortes two nights ago.
This is what he wanted to say.
There were in all three. I have spoken of the last. Another is
in verse from Coriolanus an apt sentence. Valedixit ille—in diem
profuturus.
hactenus—satis."
(18) Faith, Hope, and Charity.
a. October 19, 1903. "And the greatest of these is
Charity but not the hardest to win— That is a hard saying,—
charity may be won by all unhelped, but faith comes to many only
after long wrestling & Hope is always a gift of the gods.
Beati qui possident, neque enim acquirere eam possumus
neque communicari—accepimus divinitus, sine diligentia nostra.
Beati possidentes.
write this week but not for evidence—that later for you through
others. Wait—it has helped—you have partly understood."
422 Appendix. [PART
b. October 21, 1903. "Praebet plus scientiae tibi quam ceteris
attamen ipsa negas.
Say this to her —old faith feared ill,
new hope was wise. faith fled, hope stayed
in brighter skies. Something has led you astray
there, you began right. Do not rime.
What is the daughter of wonder? not Iris but another. Thau-
mantis thugater PJTJJ/) «mv dAij^eias. read the context."
C. October 23, 1903. " aSe\fos &mv OO-IOT^TOS. dyia \pixrio..
trium maxima illarum quae mortalium fata—faith fled, Hope
stayed when did that happen?—no this is not right.
Stop it is too difficult—let her write.
* These three are great, but greater than they is Wonder's
daughter. The stern Lawgiver is not so fair^^a^e turned), Seek
and ye shall, Wisdom comes not unsought, and one comes to call
who is not—there for the wishing.
The child of wonder is a fairer fi gure and a mightier
than the rainbow of Hope,—no messenger but the divine.—
Better than Faith Hope & Charity is Wonder's Child "
* [The writing, which had been very difficult, became quite easy at this
point.]
d. November 17, 1903.
"Complete the message now: the little book. Narn faith
no it is not right. Nora and faith but Hope is better—
best of all Wonder, and the Knowledge that it brings.
Not in faith hut in hope.
Faith hope & charity are three sisters, but wonder,—not curiosity
but amazement is the mother of us all. Her let us worship."
e. January 17, 1904.
" S is the letter. S in the envelope ^v^ and on a seal. 2.
In Mrs. Sidgwick's letter a 2—and three words on the paper—
not without hope.
The question is answered.
This must succeed—the other is harder. But ask Mrs. H. to
look at what we said last month. That should help you. Do not
try to experiment till you can see her, after that it will be easy.
Sit with her in the summer.
mi.] Appendix. 423
The text [or test] and the answer are one and are given—Hope—
youngest daughter of to-day, and oldest mother of the race,
To see the Godhead face to face, no Beholds the Godhead's very
face. Shine at the on the Wanderer on the Way—That is not quite
right but it is about Hope's vision which is the true one & leads
on the Passionate Pilgrim."
/. April 27, 1904 (see above, No. 17, a, p. 421).
g. May 11, 1904 (see above, No. 17, b, p. 421).
h. May 26, 1904. [after allusion to the ' King and the Book.']
. . . And so farewell, and let him only judge who knows—we
know not nor shall know but hope— Yet some through hope to faith
their way in triumph win—but more by love—and love faith hope
these three make God in man."
i. August 14, 1904.
"Charity suffereth long but Faith endureth great things and the
rainbow wings of Hope are dewy with 0 give the words as I give
them to you. Dewy winged rainbow winged daughter
of Wonder Hope. Hope is the messenger from gods to men,
but Love the messenger also of men to gods—Faith of men only
Love of both—And in one envelope the reference to Love in the
other to Hope.
And you will not look—Faith is not yours.
Though I speak with the tongue of an angel, you have not heard
or hearing have not done. Surely this is plain."
[Note. In the above, spaced words represent larger writing in the
original.]
(19) Locked box.
a. February 12, 1903. "Hodgson will help. . . . The key of the
box is in a little drawer upstairs—not on a ring—it lies in a little
drawer, a flat key. I told you of the importance of the key before.
The key is in a locked drawer, & the key of the drawer is on a bunch
with other keys, warm, and so carried constantly by some one. There
are several drawers, in reddish word, with little wooden knobs on
them. In the second from the top is the locked up key—lying alone.
The metal box is heavy not very small—not a cash box to carry.
The letter is tied with thread and there is a word stamped on
the seal,—not a figure—a word of 4 letters."
b. February 13, 1903. "Clavis regalis iam ante tibi apparuit
ante oculos suspensus. quo defodietur—insere insere clavigero
suo."
424 Appendix. [PAKT
c. February 22, 1903. "Direct leaf and Pitherington to see open
the chest and this is the order of the rite—Seal green and irregular
has a word across it in an oval little print letters in English. Truth,
Light—no not those—Love you mistake—that is not outside—you
do not hear."
d. March 17, 1903. See App., p. 352.
e. March 20, 1903. See App., p. 353.
f. March 26, 1903. See App., p. 353.
g. April 17, 1903. "[drauring of oval seal] sigillum. The envelope
is square square and white—and the paper has a ridge or line
upon it—-turn it round for the address—there is a date written in
ink at the bottom left hand corner. The paper is thin—foreign
note-paper.
Go to the box for it—it lies there with others & is not on the
top. The paper inside is folded once The box has a handle on
the middle of the top,—a sunken handle. There is some double
looking—two keys are wanted—the small one & one on a bunch.
Orotava or something like that is the pass-word Life is more
like the word on the seal.
LIFE there is a little frame round of double lines. Is not this
enough ? The seal—the box—the 2 keys in different places—
the dark house & high windows the box & something green."
h. August 18, 1903. "The box that I told of stands on a
chair, squared with metal clamps—yellowish wood. It is near a
window. Hodgson expects a message about it before he will open
it—you have sent part of the word to him but not all. The word
you should send is the name of a ship—Orinaria Orellaria, like
that. It ends in—ia.
The message inside is from the Symposium the passage you
know. It is not in Greek, but in English three words only. I
can't get at the words—-there may be more than three, but the
sense is as I say.
You must go on—it will get clearer.
Xa'/°e KOi <TV.
There has lately been something broken near where the letter
lies in the box—broken glass is near—you can see it as you look
at the box—nothing of value.
Oriana no Oronia Auronia no Orona (or Orori a)."
i. July 13, 1904. " I have long told you of the contents of the
envelope. Myers' sealed envelope left with Lodge, you have not
LIU.] Appendix. 425
understood. It has in it the words from the Symposium—about
Love bridging the chasm. They are written on a piece of single
paper, folded & put in an envelope. That is inside another envelope
wh. has my initial at the bottom, left hand & there is a date on
the envelope too, the outside envelope not in my writing. The
whole thing has been put with other papers in a box a small box
clamped with metal."
[reference to another envelope left by Dr. Sidgwick with Mrs. Sidgwick.-]
j. July 15, 1904. " It wld be important that Hodgson shld see
the box opened—with the double envelope. His own may wait."
(20) Sealed envelope.
a. September 22, 1903. "In his envelope is a drawing, a curved
line, on one side of the paper, and a word or two on the other
side . . . 2iy/«i stands for Sidgwick elsewhere, why not there
too ? But you must give another message correctly first and then
ask her to open my envelope."
b. July 3, 1904. "What is now wanted is a fulfilled prophecy
to induce you to open the envelope which contains the allusiofl to
Plato and the place of Love in the scheme. Try this." [See
above, p. 419.]
c. July 13, 1904. See above, No. 19, i, p. 424.
d. July 18, 1904. "let the trial be made as they desire—this
is clear—that the passage from the Symp. wh. you have found as
was told you in the book is in an envelope, sealed by me. I shld
like Hodgson to know this but it is not in his envelope. I wrote
the words some time before the book was ready—pps. the test
is not very good, but it shd. help."
e. August 14, 1904. "And in one envelope the reference to
Love in the other to Hope.
And you will not look—Faith is not yours." [See above, No. 18, i.]
f. Nov. 25, 1904. "Why will you not look for it. Tell them
that. Long have they waited we do not know why—but can
do no more." [See above, p. 398.]
(21) Bishop's ring and cross.
a. June 21, 1902. Now this is other, illi tuo nuntium meum.
The lions head looked out from the right but not to slay—to watch
—to see in hope, to look on the accomplishment. Not Luria but
Lyssa gives the keynote he must complete. It is better than
the Editing—more full of life—more a thing for men. Can you not
426 Appendix. [PART
see the lion's face? It seems as if carved but it is a symbol.
etc EtC £_ ~]~g no—not quite right. £ j^J* .
Write more often—next week. Solitudo expedit. tibi aliisque.
Sit alone and listen—it will come."
b. June 24, 1902. 9.45 a.m. "quo modo haesitavisti in nomine
meo nuper. Antesignani praevalent—ausculta, dum tibi lucem
t
praesto.
amethystine the stone like this ( ) and carved
>
the
Ask
your husband—he will know, and a jewel at
the centre of each group of three,fc.but none at the intersection of
the arms.
To night again
c. June 24, 1902. 9.40 p.m. "See tonight if you cannot hear
it. These days are easier. Now for the ring—draw it | )/
and something inscribed upon it. 3 letters that look like Hebrew
}
t/ in the length of the ring, Bound the carved stone is a
gold rim, ogive shaped, the letters run lengthwise, one over the
LIU.] Appendix. 427
other. He had it made—it was not like that before. Someone
surely knows this, so that you will see that it is true. This is
evidential, I think, at last—but it has been hard to get. wait, the
circlet of the ring bifurcates to hold the stone -
nescio an videris. sed pro parte virili feci quid potuerim. nunc tua
pars. Comprehendere, quaerere,—quod est diffi cilissimum, credere.
difficile illud, sed necesse.
Reason demands belief,—and reason will give it. Faith is another
thing—that comes."
[Note. The script of June 21, and June 24, 1902, was shown to
Miss Harrison on June 26, 1902, as attested by her statement on the
original documents. The answer to my letter of enquiry about Dr. B's
ring was nvt received by me till August 3, after my return to England.]
d. July 1, 1902. "... The chain has nothing to do with the
cross. the cross stands, it is not worn. . . . E.T.C."
e. July 7, 1902. ". . . The ring is quite right, though the
5
letters may not be correct. Try again. . no I cant do it.
But some one has the ring and can look. I— ] This is
on the tomb, but the other crross is lighter in design—and has
something glistening about it besides the gems, in the trefoils.
Trifoliata gemmata
stellata. I have tried to give those three points before this, but you
would not understand." [attested:] (July 7, 1902, J.E.H)
(22) Signature.
Quotations completely given in text, p. 305, 6.
(23) Philadelphus coronarius.
(For notes on extracts marked * see below, p. 428.)
5, August 18, 1903. "Orinaria, Orellaria, like that. It ends in
—ia ... Oriana, no Oronia Auronia no Orona [or
Ororia]." See above, No. 19, h, p. 424.
6.* September 9, 1903. "Coronaria, Campanile—Coronella no but
why the star 1 Auriga Capellae has the letters of it but is too
long—and it should be one word not two.
428 Appendix. [PART
Auricapella auricolorata Oriflamma auricomata goldhaired, Camilla's
yellow hair reminds.
flava comam—
nexit in hastam
Oritella
Coronata
Ariadne's crown in the sky.
C comes Orionis Corotana (or Corotaria) [drawing of crown] and the
countless hosts of Heaven."
7. Sept. 17, 1903. "you have the key word now. ... It is
out of your hands now—others will decide. Hodgson will act, but
will not tell you till it is done."
8.* October 5, 1903. "Aurora fecit multo cum sono conchyli
superimpendente Zephyri flatu. resonat mare, plangitur ora. desinit
in plangorem Ariadnes vox.
Ariadne stella coronaria hoc est omen et nomen—mitte.
Seven stars in the crown and Berenice's hair too flava comam—
Mary Magdalene and the nard—but you will not understand.
cingit corona flammata caput quod ei fuit carissimum—ibi florescunt
lilia olympiaca non Romana. palescit inhians.
no—you confuse—Ariadne's cry—find that out vox clamantis
et amantis in rupe deserta—venit consolator inopinatus, caelicolosus
non mortalis, in caelo posuit stellam mortalibus in maerore omen.
Interpretatio facilis.
Ariadne's nomen significationem demonstrat
Accipe accipe."
* Notes on above script.
Sept. 9, 1903. "Camilla's yellow hair reminds" is perhaps a mere
confusion. Virgil's Camilla has not yellow hair, but Virgil's Camilla
is obviously suggested by the words nexit in hastam (Aen. XL 554-5).
Possibly the yellow hair, flava comam, is an anticipation of Berenice's
deified locks of yellow hair in the script of Oct. 5th. The phrase
comes Orionis, " companion of Orion," suggests a constellation, and
so do the following words, " the countless hosts of heaven."
Oct. 5, 1903. The early phrases refer beyond a doubt to Catullus'
poem on Ariadne and Dionysus, a famous passage, which is
recalled by the allusions to dawn and the sea. The lament of Ariadne
and the unexpected arrival of the god, as well as the inclusion of
Ariadne's crown among the stars, are referred to later in the script.
The subject of the next following poem of Catullus (Cat. LXVI.) is
LIII.] Appendix. 429
the transference to the constellations of Berenice's hair, and in
this poem Catullus refers, naturally enough, to both the recent
constellations, Ariadne's crown and Berenice's hair.
Ibi vario ne solum in lumine caeli
ex Ariadneis aurea temporibus
ftxa corona foret, sed nos guoque fulgeremus
devotae flavi verticis exuviae,
says the lock speaking of itself in Cat. LXVI. 59.
The mention of hair is apparently responsible for the introduction
of Mary Magdalene and the nard, but this last allusion is at once
rejected as inappropriate by the script. The flaming crown upon a
well-loved head repeats the leading idea. I have discovered nothing
to account for the Olympian lilies, a phrase which, as far as I know,
is original.
(24) Symposium.
Quotations completely given in text, pp. 310-318.
EXTRACT FROM SCRIPT TO ILLUSTRATE PROPHECY UNFULFILLED.
SEE CHAP. XIII., P. 319.
Dec. 29, 1903. "Patientia—patet quibus patientia. o vos qui
timetis audite nunc vocem clamantis et proclamantis in desertis
locis nunquam antea visa mox videbitis, nunquam audita auribus
recipietis—in longum aevum permanebit veritas.
Write now : he comes, upon the sea—in a ship—the letter will
hardly reach in time.
It is not to you he comes but note this day & watch.
This is a prophecy. I will tell you more presently. Note now
the unexpected journey on the sea."
LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN CORROBORATION OK STATEMENTS CONCERNING
ANTICIPATIONS OR PROPHECIES. SEE CHAP. XIII.
The numbers in brackets refer to the numbering in the text.
(4) Postmarks on Script of Oct. 21st and Oct. 23rd, 1903, sent
to Sir O.J.L. before Oct. 25.
Dr. Grenfell's paper at Cambridge read on Nov. 10th, re
ported in Cambridge Review of Nov. 12th, 1903.
Dr. G.'s London paper reported in Times, Nov. 14th, 1903.
Oxyrhynchus Papyrus publ. June, 1904.
<• 0 Appendix. [PART
(6) Original script Sept. 4th and 7th, 1901.
Copies on Sept. 5th and 8th, 1901.
Note in script book Oct. 14th, 1901.
Date of visit to Winchester, Sept. 26th-Oct. 2nd, 1901,
noted in diary.
(7) Original script March 3rd, 1903, and post mark.
Note in script book March 7th, 1903.
Notes in diary March 5th, 7th and 8th, 1903.
Letter from H. F. S. on March 5, referring to Didascalia.
(8) Script of June 27th, 1902.
Miss Harrison's note of July 4th, 1902.
Letter to Mr. Piddington July 4th, 1902, endorsed by him
as received on July 7th.
Letters from Mr. Piddington August 14th and 23rd, 1902.
Letters of July 23rd, July 26th, August 12th, 1902, enclosing
cutting from the Courrier de Cannes of July 1st, 1902,
letters from the Cur6 at Coursegoules July 24th, 1902,
and from the Superior of the Oratory at Juan les Pins
August 10th, 1902.
Copy of letter to Editor of Giornale d'Italia.
(12) Original script May 11th, 1901.
Copy in script book May 12th, 1901.
Note in script book May 16th, 1901.
Note in diary May 17th, 1901.
Account in Daily Mail May 13, 1901.
Account in Westminster Gazette May 16th, 1901.
(14) Original script December 11th, 1901, and December 17th, 1901.
Copies of script Dec. 12th and Dec. 20th, 1901.
Notes in script book Dec. 20th, 1901, Jan. 1st, 1902, March
3rd, 1902, March 5th, 1902.
Letter from Mrs. Sidgwick, Newnham College, Cambridge,
December 15, with postmark Cambridge, Dec. 16, 1901
(acknowledging receipt of a letter from M. de G. V. with
enquiries about ' Marmontel ').
Letter from Mr. Piddington March 23rd, 1902, describing Lon
don Library copies of Marmontel's Memoirs.
Letters from Mr. E. H. Marsh January 16th, 1902, February
24th, 1902 (postcard), March 4th, 1902 (describing the
chapter read by him in Paris on Feb. 21), March 10th,
1903 (enclosing corroborative statement of incident as
Lin.] Appendix. 431
narrated in this paper), March 14th, 1903 (enclosing letter
as below).
Letter from the Hon. Neville Lytton March 14th, 1903 (confirm
ing dates of E.H.M.'s visit to Paris and E.H.M.'s reading
of a London Library book).
(15) Original script of April 2, 1903, April 10, 1903, Feb. 24, 1905,
March 17, 1906, each sent by post to Sir Oliver Lodge
shortly after production.
Copies of above script on April 3, 1903, April 11, 1903,
Feb. 25, 1905, March 18, 1906.
Note in script-book, April 5, 1906.
Entries in diary under Dec. 11, 1905, and April 4, 1906.
Letters from Miss M. A, Curtois, 7 Smith Square, Westminster,
on March 23rd, 1906 (asking me to visit her), and on
April 8, 1906 (enclosing account of cross as described,
and photograph reproduced in text).
Note on " Wheel of the Master."
The "wheel of the master" on March 7th, 1903, was by no
means the first appearance in the script of a wheel. The mystic
wheel of Pythagorean or Orphic significance appears usually to be
four-spoked (see Lower Italy Vases represented on pp. 602-603 of
Prolegomena to Greek Religion by Miss Harrison), and the wheel of
Ixion in the lower world is expressly so described by Pindar. On
seven occasions before the appearance of the mysterious " wheel of
the master," the script had alluded to wheels, often in connexion
with the number four. Thus on March 27th, 1901, we have
"petorrita pro carroni. Saepe cwrrus deorum." Petorrita is an old
Latin word for a four-wheeled waggon, petor being equivalent to
quattuor (four), and rita representing rota (wheel). Carroni is a false
form, carrus being a two-wheeled car. But in spite of the error the
allusion is clear to "a four-wheeled waggon instead of a car ; often
the chariot of the gods."
Again on April 24th, 1901, there are drawings followed by the
words "always in fours symetrically posited." The first drawing
represents four circles joined together, the second a square and
four dots.
On June 27th, 1901, the script wrote : Omina accipe—velociter currit
alatus pes, vehementior rota ocissime autem nuntius dei alipes super maria
volitans. " Receive the omens, swiftly runs the winged foot, more
432 Appendix. [PART LIII.
violently the wheel, and fastest the wing-footed messenger of God
flitting over the seas."
On September 4th, 1901, there were drawings in the script repre
senting four circles followed by an arrangement of lines and circles
in fours which might symbolise a four-wheeled waggon and shafts.
The phrase sic semper sic ubique followed this drawing and the same
phrase had immediately preceded the description on March 27th,
1901, of the four-wheeled waggon.
On March 2nd, 1902, there was a further attempt to represent
by rough drawings something grouped in fours. The drawings were
preceded by the words : "1234 and then again—four and four
and pause—and then repeat." Then after the first drawing [for
facsimiles see App., p. 346] came : " do you see it now ? " and
after more drawings, " I have tried to tell you this before." The
later drawings apparently represent a revolving group of four con
nected objects and are followed by the words : acguiret vires eundo,
" it will gain strength by going." This suggests, though it does not
mention, a wheel.
On April 14th, 1902, a rough drawing was followed by the words
" quadriform too, as of old I have said." Then after another rough
drawing the words " not right."
Another allusion on May 16th, 1902, to ambrosial night wander
ing on her car has been commented on above (see p. 43) ; it may,
however, have no connexion with the series of attempts to suggest
a wheel.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XX
(PART LIII)
1906.
A.
A, Miss, Experiments in Simultaneous Writing with - - 65, 362
Anecdotes, unidentified, given in the Script - 111, 112, 143, 144, 376
Anticipations. See Future Events.
Aphorisms, Proverbs, etc., occurring in the Script - - 47-49, 356, 357
Appendix, Extracts from the Script illustrating ihe Text - - 340-432
Archdale, Mrs., Cross-correspondences with - - 206, 207, 403, 404
Archdale, Stewart, references to ... 206, 207, 229, 403, 404
Assonances occurring in the Script 56, 360, 361
Automatic Writings, On a Series of, by Mrs. A. W. Verrall - - 1-432
„ „ Part I. (General).
„ „ „ Introductory 1
„ „ „ Form and Style of Script 18
.„ „ „ Other General Characteristics - - 47
„ „ „ Varieties of Dramatic Form 67
„ „ „ Comments in Script on the Phenomena - 84
„ „ „ Unverifiable Statements or Allusions - 105
„ „ Part II. (Verifiable Matter).
,, „ „ Reminiscences and connexion with Dreams 133
„ „ „ Experiments in Telepathy ... ]56
„ „ „ References to Living Acquaintances - 177
„ „ „ Cross-correspondences - 205
„ „ „ „ (Mrs. Forbes) - 219
ii Index to Vol. XX.
Automatic Writings, Part II. (Verifiable Matter).
,, „ „ References to Past Events - - - 27$
„ „ „ „ to Future Events - - 319
„ „ Appendix of Extracts from Script illustrating
the Text 340
„ „ Table of Contents 2-5
" Automatisms," possible instances of 47,54
B.
B., MRS., Experiments in Simultaneous Writing with - - 65, 362
Brtlfour, F. M. See Communicators.
Balfour, Gerald, Spontaneous references to, in Script - - - - 193
Baltimore, Mrs., Experiments with Mrs. Forbes
220, 231-233, 247, 250, 255, 260, 405
Basket of Fruit, references to 278, 415, 416
Bayfield, M. A., and Automatic Experiments - 29, 259-
Benson, Archbishop, Description in Script of Cross and Ring 301-31 >5, 425
Book, Small, references to 296, 421
Box, Locked, references to 299, 423, 424
Browning Quotations - - - - 52, 147, 189, 297, 298, 359, 402, 419
Bradgate, Mrs., Experiments with Mrs. Verrall in Simultaneous Writing 167
CABLIAN HILL, reference to 293-294, 419^
Cappadocian Pollux, references to the - - - 142, 143, 342, 344
Caristian Anecdote, the , 111, 143, 144, 376
Cartwright, Mrs. (Control). See Communicators.
Characteristics, Other General, of the Script 47-66
See also Dramatic Form and Form and Style.
Childe, Rol<nd, references to 52,189,190,359,402
Christian Ritual or Symbolism, Allusions to - 45, 119-124, 249, 379-381
Chronological List of Events inducing confidence in Script 91, 92, 369, 370
Classical Allusions or Quotations, Chief References
33, 41, 42-46, 50-54, 61, 108, 109, 113-118, 125-132, 137, 144, 145, 153,
163, 222, 241-248, 286-293, 297, 357-361, 377-379, 381-3S5, 414, 418,
419, 421-423, 431-432.
See also Plato, "Symposium" and "Theeetetus."
Classical Tripos Tip, Attempt to reproduce ... - 145-147
Classification of Topics in the Script 135-137
Columella, references to 294, 4191
Comments by "the Scribe" on the Phenomena - - 84-104,368,371-373
Communicators, Chief references to :
„ Balfour, F. M. - 26, 27, 152, 185, 193, 225, 278, 402
„ Cartwright, Mrs. (Control) - - 201, 211, 367, 368
Index to Vol. XX. iii
Communicators, Chief references to :
„ Forbes, Talbot (through Mrs. Forbes and Mrs. Verrall)
220-226, 229, 230, 231, 233, 234, 236-239, 244, 256,
260, 263, 269, 270, 275, 307, 404-414.
„ Gurney, Edmund (through Mrs. Forbes and Mrs. Verrall)
102, 220, 223, 226, 229, 231, 244, 254, 257, 263, 266,
269, 270, 275, 305-307, 395, 401, 408, 415, 427.
„ "H." (through Mrs. Forbes and Mrs. Verrall)
209, 220, 228, 234-236, 239-248, 254, 263, 265, 275,
280, 281, 307, 405, 406.
„ " Imperator " and " Rector " (Controls)
79, 80, 82, 125, 203, 214, 215, 218
Myers, F. W. H. 26
„ Sidgwick, Dr. 26, 277-279, 295-298, 300, 301, 331, 332
Condensed Expressions used iii the Script 55
Consciousness, Case where the Source of the Message appears to be
Supraliminal 139-140
„ Conditions of, during Writing - 12-15, 139
Constable, F. C., Experiments with - - - 17, 96, 168-173, 394-400
„ „ Spontaneous references to, in Script ... 181
Conversations, Apparent interchange of, between Subliminal Personalities
68-73, 334, 366-368
Cross-Correspondences, with other Sensitives
16, 17, 25, 46, 51, 58, 62, 78, 102, 103, 151, 168,
173-175, 205-218, 400, 403-404.
„ with Mrs. Forbes
16, 51, 87, 90, 95, 97, 98, 121-123, 131, 132, 168,
219-275, 306, 307, 315-317, 351, 356, 369, 371,
394, 395, 404-414.
Crystal Vision, Early experiments in 7
Curtois Cross, The, references to 335-339, 431
,, ,, Illustration of------- 336
D.
" DAILY MAIL," Case connected with a Fulfilled Prediction 329, 330, 430
Daphne, references to 58, 59
" Dawn, the One-Horse." See Dr. Verrall's Telepathic Experiment.
Development of the Automatic Script - ... 7-17, 340-355
Dew Smith, Mrs., Experiments with - - - 16, 168, 173-175, 372, 400
„ „ Spontaneous references to, in Script
183, 184, 204, 255, 372
Dormitory Notice, references to- - - - - - - 277, 415
Dovinans. See River Dovinans.
Dramatic Form, Varieties of 67-83, 275
„ „ Conversations 68-73, 334, 366-368
„ „ Signatures, Recognisable 73-83
iv Index to Vol. XX.
Drawings, Rough, appearing in the Script
18, 19, 75, 81, 118, 263, 264, 301-305, 321, 323, 336, 346, 347, 349,
350, 352, 353, 426.
Dreams and Impression in Sleep, connexion between, and the Script
103, 118, 133-155, 302, 355, 374, 385-387
„ Vivid Sense of " Reality " in certain - 118, 148, 149, 385, 386, 387
E.
ELOISE SIGNATURE 75
Emotional Excitement preceding the Scripi - - - 14, 15, 284, 285
Enigmatic or Oracular Sayings 125, 381
Evidential Value of the Information, Consideration of 133, 184, 185, 193-204
Experiments on Conditions of Writing 16
F.
" FAITH, HOPE, AND CHARITY." - 297
See also Plato's " Thesetetus."
Fire Incident, references to 14, 44, 45, 284, 285, 418
Floreniine Cabinet, references to 195, 196, 420
Forbes, Mrs., Cross-correspondences with
16, 51, 87, 90, 95, 97, 98, 121-123, 131, 132, 168, 219-275,
306, 307, 315-317, 351, 356, 369, 371, 394, 395, 404-414.
„ Corroborative Documents 409-414
Forbes, Talbot. See Communicators.
Form and Style of Script 18-46, 356.
See also other General Characteristics 47-66
Fuchsia " Experiment. See Constable, F. C.
Future Events, Miscellaneous references to - - 294, 319-339, 403
„ List of Documents Corroborating Anticipations or
Prophecies 429, 430
G.
GARDEN, references to 280, 416
General Characteristics of the Script. See Characteristics.
Gothard, Mortimer, Signature ------- 75, 375
Grenfell, Dr., Lecture on the Loyia 53, 54, 321, 429
Gurney, Edmund. See Communicators.
„ „ Reproduction of Signature of - 231, 305-307, 427
Gurwood Crest, The, reproduction of 20, 263, 408
H.
" H." See Communicators.
Handwriting, Characteristics of ihe 20-27
„ Recognisable 25, 36, 82
„ See also Signatures.
Index to Vol. XX. v
Harrison, Miss Jane, references made to in the Script - - - 180
"Haunting Bird" Prediction concerning .... 328-330,430
Hills in Rome, references to 293-294, 419
History and General Description of the Script - - - - 6, 7-132
Hodgson, Dr., Experiments with Mrs. Piper 46, 58, 78, 82, 109, 125,
169, 170, 212-218, 404
„ Spontaneous references to, made in Script
78, 82, 91, 99-102, 178, 198, 200-203, 204, 282, 283,
299, 300, 307-310, 318, 351, 395, 417, 419, 423, 427, 429
„ "Syringa" Incident - 101,307-310,427-429
Hyslop, Professor James, on the Trance Phenomena of Mrs Piper 47, 54, 215
I.
" IMPERATOR" (CONTROL). See Communicators.
Impressions connected with ihe Script - - 142,171-173,229,269,284
,, passing to the wrong person - - - - 213, 215, 258
Inaccuracies in the Script foreign to the Normal Writing - - 27, 28, 32
Isles of the Blest, chief references to - 35, 44, 112-118, 287, 291-293, 377-379
J.
JOHNSON, Miss ALICE, Assistance in the Experiments given by
1, 79, 135, 168, 197, 221, 411
„ „ Spontaneous references to, in Script - 198, 199
Jones, Sir Lawrence, Sponianeous reference to, in Script - - 198, 199
K.
KEATS Quotation 51,358,397
Keith, Alec, Unidentified Message from 75, 374, 375
L.
LANGUAGES. See Latin and Greek—
„ Modern Foreign, rare use of 30-32
Latin and Greek, Use of in the Script - - 6, 8-10, 12, 21-24, 30-46
„ ,, Allusions to Fables -------41
„ „ Antecedent Knowledge of 33
„ „ Crabbed Style 40
„ „ Original Non-Classical Phrases - - - - 24, 44
„ „ Philological Pecvliarities 36-41
„ „ Poetical Phraseology 42-44
„ „ Proportion and Intention of 33
„ „ for Extracts, see Appendix.
Leaf, Dr. and Mrs., Spontaneous reference to, in Script - - - 204
Living Acquaintances, Spontaneous references to 177-204
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Filing and care of the Original Automatic Writings
1, 11, 12, 134, 135, 216, 219, 411-413
vi Index to Vol. XX.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Spontaneous references to, in Script—
60, 89, 178, 198-201, 207-209, 361
See also Mr. Myers' Sealed Envelope Experiment.
" Logia, The," references to - 52, 53, 54, 95, 96, 297, 321, 360, 422
Lost Hat, references to 277, 415
M.
MANUSCRIPT Play, references to 279, 280, 416
" Marraontel," Prediction, 181,331-334,430,431
Marsh, E. H., "Marmontel" Prediction, the - - 181, 331-324, 430, 431
„ Spontaneous reference to, made in Script - 181
Marshall, W. C., Telepathic Experiment in connexion with the Script
175, 176, 401
Maupertuis and Sarrasin, reference to ----- 25, 375
Memory, Experiments as to subsequent, of the Script- - - 9, 12, 13
See also Consciousness.
Milton Quotation 163, 359
Mosee, W. Stainton, Controls of, (" Imperator " and " Rector.")
See Communicators.
Motor Impulses to write, Strong 8-14, 51, 78, 87, 88, 150, 154, 187,
214, 221, 225, 226, 228, 231, 284, 302, 332
Munro, Dr. H. A. J., possible reference to 107, 108
Murray, Gilbert, Telepathic Experiment by, in connexion with the
Script - - 167
Myers, Dr. A. T. Spontaneous references to, made in Script
161, 391, 393, 394
„ „ See also Dr. Verrall's Experiment.
Myers, F. W. H." Imitations of the Handwriting of, by the Script - 26
„ „ Sealed Envelope left by, for Experimental purposes
78, 79, 172, 268, 271, 272, 299-301, 327, 399, 424, 425
Mystic Allusions 127-131, 383
N.
NAMES, List of unidentified 105,106,374-376
Neo-Platonist Theories, Chief references to 33, 116, 125, 128, 132,
286-293, 323, 324, 418, 419, 431, 432
„ „ " Wheel of the Master," the - - - 128, 431
Neville, Ralph, Communication, 24, 75, 111, 375, 376
Normal and Subliminal Knowledge, differences between.
See .Subliminal Self.
O.
OBJECTS, Description of Unidentified ------ 110, 111
Omar, Waters of 285, 286, 418
Original Non-Classical Phrases 24, 44-46
" Our Lilies" (Talbot Forbes) references to - - . 233-235, 256, 257, 258
Index to Vol. XX. vii
P.
<( PASSIONATE PILGRIM," The, references to - 66, 298, 423
Past Events, Miscellaneous references to - - - - 276-318, 415
Personality. See Dramatic Form assumed by the Script - - 67-83, 275
Personal Matters, Small amount of references to .... 104
Phrases, Meaningless Introductory 28, 29
„ Terminal 29
Piddington, J. G., Assistance in Experiments given by
1, 26, 82, 134, 135, 206-210, 234, 235, 240, 246, 410
„ „ Handwriting, Imitation of, in Script - - 26,81
„ „ Spontaneous references to, in Script
26, 82, 178, 198, 201, 202
„ „ The Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson - - 219
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of
46, 47, 54, 58, 78, 82, 109, 125, 169, 170, 212-218, 367, 404
„ Cross-correspoi.dencea - - - 58, 78, 169-170, 212-218
Plato, References to the " Phaedrus " 145-147,360
„ "Philebvs" 144,385
„ Chief references to the " Symposium Incident"
241-248, 250, 268, 271, 272, 275, 299-301, 310-
318, 327, 414, 424, 425, 429.
„ „ the "Thesetetus" 52,53,54,95,96,297,321,422
Pompilia's Grave, reference to - - - - - - - 147, 148
Prayers given by Script 124, 381
Predictions, Unfulfilled - 319
„ See also Future Events.
Pseudo-Memory, Possible instance of 153
Pseudonyms, Use of, in the Report - - 7, 16
Puns and Plays on Names 59-62, 288, 361
Q.
QUASI-MATHEMATICAL DISQUISITIONS 131, 385
Quasi-Philosophical, Mystic or Didactic Utterances - - 124-132, 381-385
Quotations, Recognisable 49-54, 357-360
R.
RECORD and Preservation of Documents, etc.
11, 134, 135, 273, 274, 354, 355, 409-414, 429
" Rector " (Control). See Communicaiors.
Reminiscences and Connexion with Dreams
103, 118, 133-155, 302, 355, 364, 385-387
„ „ Dreams, Connexion wiih - - - 148-155, 385-387
„ „ „ List of Passages showing - - 386, 387
„ „ Revived Memories, possible instances of
110, 116 117, 123, 125, 128, 131
viii Index to Vol. XX.
Richet, Professor Ch., Spontaneous reference to, in Script - - 198, 199
River Dovinans, references to 278, 336, 416
S.
SCOTCH BALLAD QUOTATION 52, 358
" Scott, Mrs." 219
See also Forbes, Mrs.
" Scribe, The," Criticisms by, on the Phenomena - - - 84-104
Script, The. See Record and Preservation of.
Sealed Envelopes, Experiments in Reading Contents of
„ Mr. Constable's - - - 17, 96, 168-173, 394-400
„ Mr. F. W. H. Myers' (posthumous)
78, 79, 92, 268, 271, 272, 299-301, 327, 424, 425
Sensations while Writing 8, 9, 12-16
Shakespeare Quotations 52, 189, 190, 358-360, 402
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry and her Brothers, Spontaneous references to,
in Script 193-198
Sidgwick, Professor Henry, Imitation of the Handwriting of, in the
Script --26
„ „ Spontaneous references made to, in Script
194-198
„ „ See also Communicators.
Signatures to Communications 26, 74-83, 344-353
„ Identified, of the Dead - - - 26, 82, 224, 231, 305-307
„ „ of the Living 26, 81, 82
„ Unidentified 75-81, 203, 217, 218
„ Unintelligible 81
Sleep or Drowsiness induced by Writing 14-16, 351
„ See also Dreams.
Smith. See Mrs. Dew Smith. p
Subliminal Knowledge and Powers, differences between, and Supraliminal
19, 27-32, 45, 46, 54, 58, 59, 62, 117, 154,
155, 178, 244, 246, 286, 292, 293, 300
Supernormal Acquisition of Knowledge, Sections bearing on.
See References to Living Acquaintances, Past Events, Telepathy,
and Cross-Correspondences.
Sundial Inscriptions 280, 281, 417
Supraliminal Knowledge, Allusions, etc., directly referable to - 137-142
Swift Quotation - 360
" Symposium" References to 78, 79, 241-248, 250, 268, 271, 272, 275,
299-301, 310-318, 327, 369, 414, 424, 425, 429
„ Passages from, in Sealed Envelope, - 79, 268, 271, 272,
299-301, 318, 327, 414, 424, 425, 429
„ Quotation from, in " Human Personality " 241-248,250,
275, 299, 315-318, 369, 414, 429
Index to Vol. XX. ix
" Symposium " References to, in Mrs. Forbes' Script
241-248, 315, 369, 414, 429
Syringa Incident 101,307-310,427-429
T.
TABLE OF CONTENTS 2-5
Telepathy, Experiments in conveying Information telepathically to
the Script - - - - 25, 156-176, 247-9, 255, 313, 314, 387-401
„ Gradual Emergence of the Suggestion - - - 156-165
See also Dr. Verrall's Telepathic Experiment.
Tennyson Quotations, - <>1, 358-360
Three letters, reference to 295, 296, 419-421
Thomas, N. W., reference to 200, 201
Thompson, Mrs., references to, in Script - - 201, 202, 207, 225, 405, 420
„ Cross-correspondences ----- 151, 207-212
Trinity College Cloisters, references to - 277, 278, 415
U.
UNIDENTIFIABLE DESCRIPTIONS 106-112
Names 105, 106, 374-376
Unusual Constructions --------- 39
Unverifiable Statements and Allusions 105-132
V.
"VENi CREATOR" incident, 324-326,430
Veridical Case, reference to ------- 283, 417
Verifiable Matter contained in the Script 131-339
Verrall, Dr. A. W., Spontaneous references to, by Script 177, 184-192, 204
„ „ Complete List of 401-403
„ „ Telepathic Experiment (the "One-horse Dawn"),
Chief references to
22, 36, 86, 87, 97, 156-167, 185, 189, 247-249,
255, 277, 313, 314, 387-394
Verrall, Hugh, Reference to, 190, 191, 403
Verrall, Miss H. de G., Automatic Experiments 29
„ „ „ in connexion with the Script
213-217, 230-233, 257, 258, 261,
263, 264, 267, 362, 364
„ „ Spontaneous references to, in Script
192, 193, 204, 253, 407
Verrall, Mrs. A. W., On a Series of Automatic Writings - - - 1-432
Verse, attempts at English 65, 66, 297, 362-365
„ Greek and Latin 63-65,365
„ „ Specimens of Verse composed between sleeping
and waking ...-.- 361, 362
x Index to Vol. XX.
W.
WELLINGTON COLLEGE, references to - - 161, 186-189, 231, 277, 40-2, 415
" We-itminster Gazette," Case connected with a Fulfilled Prediction
329, 330, 430
" Wheel of the Master," Notes on 128,431,432
Words Non-existent and Uninielligible ----- 3g, 37
„ „ but Intelligible 36, 37
Wordsworth Quotation ----.-_.. 360
