{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pietro_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Pietro B NDE 2661","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pietro B NDE 2661  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pietro B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						893  Pietro B NDE  2661  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I felt like having been thrown into space with a perfect vision of moving away from the earth and entering into a very bright light. At the same time, I had a clear vision of my life on earth like being in a two dimensional screen; it is very difficult to express this in words. I was conscious of everything and thought about what I was feeling. There was so much happiness and endless peace, which increased while I was about to enter the light. I knew that I was part of the light. I didn't know why I did so but I knew it and I also knew that we're all part of it; at the climax of my experience there was something that transcended everything, and I knew that entering that light would mean I wouldn't be able to return. I don't know why this was the case but I knew it for sure and that's something I can hardly explain but I'm not looking for an explanation, I accept what I have experienced as such. I considered my self-centeredness and had very strong feelings not to return, I thought of my loved ones and of worldly things and I couldn't care less about them and such thoughts struck me deeply. Suddenly, I don't know why and how, I was pulled back into my body and my problem was why such a return into the body could be justified (as if it was necessary to justify a thing like that!!!!). I've had and continue having flashes of that experience; it's like putting the puzzles into the right place.

From that moment onward, I know that definitely something is changing within myself. I know that very well but I don't know what will happen in the future. Now I carry on with my everyday life and with my relations as if I had a protective layer to shield me from ordinary things, which don't touch me as they did before. Now I also perceive people differently, I see into them and the sound of their voices is like a sound for me, which may be false when they are talking about things they don't feel. That's very strange.

My life is changing now and I don't know where it will lead me to. I want to know the reason why I had to return but I'm getting weary of asking myself that question. Maybe I'll find out about it, maybe I won't, it doesn't matter. What is very important to me is to end my studies and create a place for psychic studies, maybe with the help of the shamans of superior Peru, to whom I owe a lot, understanding the value of life and the value of living in harmony with nature, of which we are a part. They teach us that everything is full of life and it's that teaching that I consider to be the biggest gift I've been given. I don't know anything about the rest and move on my path.

Finally, I would like to write a book, I've been meditating on that for seven years but it seems to me that every time I embark on it something bigger and more profound has to be added.

Thanks for listening to me and I wish you much luck for your initiative. I think that each of us feels the need of sharing that type of experience with people that don't consider us to be crazy. Thank you.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 2005  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Surgery-related       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   During the third surgery in twenty days.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Difficult to express.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     Time and space are of no importance anymore.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was like a road of very white light, very pure when entering it; limitless happiness; at the end there was an 'inner circle' of very bright light where there was a point of no return, all peace and true happiness. I know that but I don't know why I knew it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A feeling of peace, harmony and joy; it was indescribable.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     It was like a screen in which I was able to see what had happened but the main interest was on the path of the light and the beautiful experiences.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I don't know it yet.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   studio il misticismo andino e lo shamanismo, in particolare l'andino ed amazzonico. e studio astronomia e storia delle religioni  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   proseguo nella ricerca  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Not basically but there was a consciousness of being part of the 'light'.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I see people more from a distance than before.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was difficult to explain the feelings of peace, harmony, joy and completeness.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Increased sensibility and psychic visions and other things.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The knowledge that life in the body here on earth is only for a short period of time.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    The first person I talked to was my wife who believed me and was happy and close to me. The second person was a friend of mine who had been in coma for twenty days and has had the same experience; within my family they tend to look at my experiences with skepticism, so do my friends in Italy. In Peru it's different because they are more open to matters of spirituality.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I saw programs on TV and I read about it.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Simply for the fact that I remember vividly what had happened; but I must say that I was not able to relive those feelings not even when meditating, but I do not despair.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I'm sure that I've experienced the passage from life to death.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, thank you.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pietro_b_nde.html