{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pinchon_nde.html","mytitle":"Pinchon NDE 676","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pinchon NDE 676  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pinchon NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						316  Pinchon NDE  676  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Impression came to me very quickly in a space with colorful prisms that paraded around me.  When I arrived in this space of soft and brilliant light, there was an amazing ambiance of love.  I felt like I was in communication with a charismatic entity.  I was surprised because the being communicated in an unknown language that I understood.  I had a life review where I saw the good and the bad events of my life.  I was judged on this balance: The judgment was favorable.


I had a feeling of extreme lucidity, omniscience and super conscience and I had the impression I could speak all languages.  I 'saw' my two children (currently living) being held by the hand, they were rays of light, dressed in white.


I was flooded with information.  I knew I needed to come back to my children.  Some messages printed themselves in my mind and one only remained in my memory:  'it is necessary to fully use one’s capacities on Earth, not to waste his/her/its talents, but to share them with other’s.'


I made huge efforts to come back to life.  When I came back to the world, I was agitated with what I was around me.  I could not speak, nor open my eyes, yet I felt all emotions and the thoughts of all around me.  The first scene I saw was one of a tree against a gray sky with Paris off in the distance.  I regretted my return.  A depression followed, in spite of happiness at recovering.  My family didn't want to listen to my deliriums.


Reader Contribution:


I have been reading your wonderful site for a long time. It is very inspirational!


I have a comment to make about Pinchon's NDE. Since it is translated from the French, I was not sure if you understood the reference to 'Jean-Michel Jarre.'  Jean Michel Jarre is a new-age type musician. I have not heard many of his albums, but I have one of his earlier ones, 'Oxygene'. Some of the music on it sounds like some of the other music I have heard that was created by near-death experiencers who were trying to communicate what the music they heard was like. 

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    January 1989

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Life threatening event, but not clinical death hémorragie interneHemorrhage during a hysterectomy.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  No information, no memory of it.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Omniscience, hyper-conscience and very extreme lucidity compared to the 'wakening' time.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   The chronology and the sense of time seemed fuzzy to me.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Music marks, Jean-Michel Jarre.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     Not a tunnel, but a space with scrollings of color prisms.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My two children who are living, but a lot younger than they were actually.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Very luminous space without being glaring and in which one feels penetrated by love.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Immense love, extreme lucidity and omniscience, judgment and understanding, 'paternal' advice.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Omniscience:  impression of all knowledge in an innate way and what surprised me that is to the level of the languages (I am not very good in languages) I also had a sense of the universal and my role.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I had to 'to tell' my life, but I don't remember what I said and this in a strange language.  I know I have been judged and have been forgiven.  I had several messages 'to bring back' one only remains with me in memory.  One must maximize his/her/its talents.  I’m sorry I can’t remember the other one.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I decided to come back, but it was very hard.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     This experience that I assign to biologic and neuronal phenomena allowed me to wonder if religious roots were able to build itself/themselves on old testimonies of NDEs when such experiences were new and where the sense of the magnificent was real and at the origin of myths and beliefs.  I believe that she/it allowed me to touch a little better the 'god' who is biologically in me and to think about how to develop this parcel of me.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   Difficult to translate into words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     I note a strong capacity to feel others.  I feel nature sometimes; I developed this feeling in painting.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best: to live it.  It also allowed me accept with serenity my father's death the following year.  The worse:  the efforts to come back and the spiritual censorship.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Disappointing reactions (curiosity or indifference) sometimes mockeries, only the priests or people touched by one death had reactions of certain monitoring.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pinchon_nde.html