{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pietre_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Pietre M NDE 9674","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pietre M NDE 9674  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pietre M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5195 Pietre M NDE 9674  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

  My teenage friend borrowed his mother's car.  He, myself and another friend went joy-riding on a backroad. Franco was driving too fast and rolled the car. I had been sitting in the front passenger seat when he lost control.  Back then, there were seat belt laws.  I watched from about 100 feet above and behind the car.  The vehicle rolled seven times creating a cloud of dust before coming to rest on its wheels. I don't recall feeling any emotion or surprise at the time. There was a strange 'zooming' sound or sensation.  I was on hands and knees, on the floor where the back seat had been. Blood was splashing everywhere. At first, I thought it must be from someone else, but I was alone and realized the blood was mine. I had no pain, and I'm still convinced that I wasn't actually in my body at the time of the accident. 

  I still bear the scars. I'm convinced that if I'd banged my head a little harder I would have died, and wouldn't have felt a thing.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1971  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   Car accident. Received a minor headwound, although a slightly harder bang might easily have killed me.  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Neither pleasant NOR distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The zooming feeling when I returned to my body.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

  How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I felt detached, impassive, but fully aware of what was happening.  
  
At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Watching the accident  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There's no comparison. It was life-changing.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Can't recall  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   Searching, perhaps?  

  Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain.     I did convert to Christianity about 15 years later. My experience may have been a factor. I still consider myself a Christian, but not a church Christian. Nowadays I wonder if God isn't just the souls and knowledge of all living things that have gone before, otherwise what is the point of experience? Whether that consciousness remains discreet forever or is ultimately absorbed into God and loses its individuality would be a guess too far.  
  
What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Non-church-goer. No particular affiliations, but describe myself as a 'bible Christian'  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Nobody told me you could leave your body behind.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I knew that the body is just a machine, and the brain is just the motherboard that allows that machine to function, but my soul is entirely separate from that machine.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     The fact that my body was in the car but I was not. And that my body could have died, but I was not my body.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?              

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I feel my experience helped my dad when he died.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was a long time ago now and hard to recall in detail, but it felt perfectly normal.  

  How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.  I have a number of vivid memories, and this is one of them.  
  
Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        no  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Can't remember.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

  What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Because it was so vivid.  
  
What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     Because it was so vivid.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

  Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No             				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pietre_m_nde.html