{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pluma_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Pluma S NDE 179","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pluma S NDE 179  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pluma S NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1440 Pluma S NDE 179  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My boyfriend at the time got some cocaine, and said I couldn't do any unless I did it like he did, with a needle. At the time, I was smoking it now and then but mostly snorting it. I was afraid of needles and he stuck it in me and over-dosed me. I started getting very high -- within thirty seconds -- got very hot, stripped off my clothes, collapsed on the bed. I stopped breathing and my heart stopped.

I rose up above my body and then sped away. I was in a dark tunnel, flying very fast. I heard screaming and laughing like on a roller coaster and then screaming and crying -- then the feeling of falling and falling. There was painful screaming, like torture. Then -- ZOOM -- I was back above my body, looking down, watching the guy perform CPR on me. Then I snapped back into my body and I was soooo frightened and soooo sick. It was real.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  approx. april of '89

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    overdose of cocaine, mainlined, against my wishes...  my EX boyfriend did it to me.  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Overdose - against my will.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Complete.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I was gone for a while but he said I was only gone for four to five minutes at the most.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Screaming, laughing and crying.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See main narrative.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I felt like there were others that I knew there.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonder and fear.

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     Karma.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I saw everything I did that was BAD. Another time when I was younger and almost died from appendicitis, I saw good things. The overdose only showed me that I was damned. What I learned was Karma - it reinforced the Golden Rule. I changed my life so I would not see that hell again.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I have always had premonitions, all my life. Mostly in dreams. The screwed up thing is they come true.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Uncertain     I reached the end of the tunnel and felt like I was falling -- like what happens in dreams sometimes but this was real. I got pulled back just seconds after.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   methodist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     There is a HELL.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I spoke on Art Bell's radio show, I think July 6th or 7th of 1999. He was surprised to hear me talk about 'Hell'.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have always had premonitions -- don't know if they are stronger or weaker.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was that BASTARD that did that to me was able to do CPR and bring me back for a second chance. The worst part was the nightmares that followed. But even that was good in the long run -- it made me change my life.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Shared with Art Bell, he seemed surprised. Other drug addicts at the time -- they laughed at me and said I had a bad trip. A few members of my family, they really didn't say much of anything.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Life after death is real -- be a good person and you have nothing to fear.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pluma_s_nde.html