{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1phillip_o_nde_4058.html","mytitle":"Phillip O NDE 4058","mylang":"de"}
          	        Phillip O NDE 4058  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Phillip O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1949 Phillip O NDE 4058  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had two neck surgeries I was taking a lot of aspirin my stomach was hurting. I went to the bathroom my stool was black. I told my wife to call an ambulance when I got to the emergency room they checked to see if I had been bleeding. They said they thought I had been bleeding for about a week so they put me in the hospital; this was around 4:00 am. They said the doctor would be in around 8:00 or 9:00 am. Around 9:00, I sent my wife home to get me some underwear because blood had gotten on them.  It was no longer black but red. A doctor came in to talk with me. He told me that he thought I might be bleeding from my stomach, they had contacted a gastroenterologist he was to see me. Shortly after he left blood starting pouring out of me I called for the nurse. She asked me if she could help me but I passed out before I could answer. 

When I regained consciousness, blood was still pouring out of me. I hit the nurse's button again. When they answered, I barely got the words 'I need help' out of my mouth. I passed out again. The nurses came in and then I came back around a little she said I had been scheduled for surgery. They started pushing the bed down the hall. I was having a hard time breathing. I told the nurse I was going to die. She kept telling me I wasn't. Fear had totally started to get hold of me when they got me to the intensive care unit my IV had come out. They told the nurse to get in touch with my wife, all my veins had collapsed and they could not get my IV back in, I felt myself slipping away. They were going to go into my neck to put the IV in. As they were giving me a shot to deaden the place to put the IV in I rose up out of my body.

Looking back at the doctors these words came out of my spirit, 'In the name of Jesus I take authority over Satan spirit of death I bind you, you will not take me like this.' I found myself outside my room at the nurse's station. I heard a mighty rushing wind to my right. I saw an angel flying toward me. As he flew by, there were other angels covered with light following him. The first angel I saw I could see him from head to toe he was very large, he had big fat cheeks, he had muscles on top of muscles, he was clothed in white, and he had huge large white wings. He flew by several times with the angels that were covered with light. All I could see of them were their wings barely sticking out of the light. The fear had left me, I felt pure energy going through me and peace and love. The angel that led the others stopped as I gazed upon him. I was in awe. His eyes were not like ours but had a slit from top to bottom with different colors. He told me to hop on. I told him I wasn't ready to go - I didn't know if arguing was to do any good. I told him I had always wanted to fly with angels could I just fly with him. He said, 'Sure.' So I asked him, 'How do I get up there where you are at?' As soon as I said that, I felt the power of God lift my feet up toward the angel until I was looking at the bottom of his feet and then we took off. This was becoming fun as we were flying for a while.

I heard an awful sound behind us and turned to look. It was a demon spirit; he was ugly, the head of a bat and the body of a snake. The angel in front of me dropped back and kicked the demon in the head. He rolled in a ball and he blew up like a firecracker blowing up, then he disappeared. Then it happened again. I heard the same noise the demon looked the same as the other one. This happened several times. Then the angel stopped outside of my room. I floated back down to the floor and the next thing I knew I was coming around back in my body. I was so cold, they were giving me blood and it was cold. I was looking for the angels that I had seen but they were gone. I was filled with the energy that I had felt with the angels. I started telling my wife about all that had happened. She could not believe. I was so full of joy after almost having died; it was the best and worst day of my life. Truly, life hereafter is something I am looking forward to. I believe in a way I touched the face of God.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  07 15 07

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    taking aspirin ruptured artery in stomach  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Artery ruptured in stomach.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I came out of my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I came out of my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     You could travel very fast.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     This was no vision; it was more real than what we see with our natural eyes.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    It was clearer for it was the ability to talk through thought.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I talked with an angel I did not see anyone I knew.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Angels covered with light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     IT WAS THE WORLD OF THE SPIRIT THE ABODE OF GOD

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pure joy and love and happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I am closer to God.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     We walk by faith and not by sight.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     We walk by faith and not by sight.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I have told everyone I got a chance to tell.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I think about all the time.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1phillip_o_nde_4058.html