{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1phillip_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Phillip S NDE 961","mylang":"de"}
          	        Phillip S NDE 961  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Phillip S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						414  Phillip S NDE  961  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was lying in bed, as I do right before I go to sleep. I reached over and turned off my light. The next thing I knew, there was a sharp pain in my chest, and then a blanket of darkness fell over me. Suddenly, there was a popping feeling from my body, and the next thing I knew I was floating above my bed. I was floating above my body. I could see myself as another person would.  It was not like a mirror, it was as if I was looking through someone else's eyes. I discovered that I could move, and at an expediential speed too. I examined my body, from top to bottom, front to back. I had a feeling of weightlessness, no more feeling. My body was just lying there, its eyes closed, its hand clutching its chest where the incident had occurred.


All of the sudden, I noticed two figures, figures like me. I sensed that I knew them, but not in this life. In fact, not in any life. They greeted me, and asked me how I had taken all of this. I felt peaceful, no feelings of anguish or any sort of pain. We did not speak. There was no need. It was like telepathy, but even more evolved than that. I had remembered by this time that they were angels - my guardians. They were also my best friends before life, when I was not a physical being, but when I was like them, before all of this. One soon left, and the other told me to follow the path that I had chosen for myself. He told me that I could stay, and that often times many do, to comfort the loved ones, or I could leave then, and God could comfort them in my stead. He then left quickly.


The next thing I knew, I was being sucked into a wake of some sort. A tunnel of blackness, or darkness. But it was not frightening. It was peaceful, and very warm. I could feel only good in that. I do not know how long that had lasted, or even if there was such a concept as time at that moment. I was then released from the tunnel into pure light. I saw a figure approach. Not really, a figure as it was just a being made of light, with no form. It is difficult to explain. I knew at the moment I saw him, that it was Jesus, the Christ. He took me into his arms, and told me that I was not supposed to have entered this existence yet. He asked me if I had any questions about the world, and I did. Thousands of them. I asked, and he answered them just as quickly as I had asked them. I was gaining huge knowledge about the world, and everything in it. About the existence of man, and its purpose. He then told me that he was to take me to the Father. He did so.


As I exited the room of light, I entered a world, a new universe, filled with an uncountable number of colors. I noticed now I was pure light. I noticed others too. Other deceased. All were made of light. I was taken to another place. It was as if it were billions of miles away, but we were there instantly. We entered a huge chamber, another chamber of light. There was a throne, sort of. God was sitting upon it and Jesus at his right hand. The virgin mother was present as well, and also John the Baptist. God rose from his chair, and then greeted me. All the while, since I had first seen Jesus, there was an irrepressible feeling of love. Love for one another, and love for the world and all of its people. A feeling of overwhelming peace. There were no bad feelings in this entire experience.


God asked me, 'How did you serve your fellow man?' I told him that I did not know. Just then, my soul filled with my entire past, and almost instantly, it was over. My whole life was looked at and through, and my whole life was judged in an instant. God then told me that I had been judged justly and that I was welcomed into his kingdom of heaven, but that it was not my time to leave the human existence. He stated also since I was here already, he would not force me to leave. He told me that if I should leave, after experiencing such a thing, I would only go back to a world where the pain would now magnify. I was ornery at first to make this decision, but God told me exactly what my purpose should be. He told me my purpose, but then told me that most of the knowledge, including the knowledge of my purpose would be taken from me if I chose to go back. I do not remember the knowledge that was given to me, nor the purpose that God had in mind anymore. But I do still trust him.


Apparently, I made the choice to come back. The world now is more painful than I remember it. But I have complete knowledge of where I am going now, and no fear. There is no need for me to have faith in the Lord now, as I have in my mind factual information. Anyway, I remember that all the way up to the point of choosing, and then I felt a rush, and some sort of breeze, as if I were traveling at super speeds, and then a popping sensation. I then woke up on a hospital bed, where there was a sheet over me. I opened my eyes, and there was more darkness, but not pure darkness. Just night darkness. I felt heavy. I felt cold and clammy. Sweaty. I had a nasty taste in my mouth, and my chest hurt. I tried to lift my arm, but it hurt too much. I lay there, regaining my strength. Then I push the sheet off, and walked out of the room. I went out a door, and recognized the hospital as the one I normally attend for my regular appointments and such.


I went to the waiting room where my parents were. My mother was crying and my father looked dazed. I said something and they whipped their heads around. A doctor and nurse came running down the hall, and then more from another hall. My mom screamed and then fainted, and my father bolted up, as if terrified. The doctor just started asking questions, and I answered them as quickly as I could. I was dead for nearly four hours. It felt as if I was in heaven for days and days. They made me go back to my room, and my father followed. My mother was put up on her own bed. She woke up shortly after, and came running in, hugging and kissing me. They asked questions too. They told me that they saw me dead. My father had come in the night, shortly after I had expired. He heard a yell from me that I did not remember. He checked my pulse and everything else too and could find nothing. The doctors were one hundred percent sure that I was dead. I had no activity in any part of my body. It is both a mystery why I had died in the way that I did, and then arose. I am living my life now as I had before, but with a new knowledge. A knowledge that strengthens not only me, but all whom I talk to.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    January 2nd, 2004

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No     Heart just stopped beating, breathing stopped, brain activity at 0.00%  Clinical death

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Sort of like a body out of body, but weightless, and floating.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      It was as if I was alive and wide awake, but in a different sense of being.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   It was as if time did not exist.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    No sound in any way. All communication was done in a way I cannot explain.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     It was a tunnel of darkness I was traveling through at high speeds. It felt like I was going a million miles an hour, but also not moving at all. The tunnel made me feel warm, and peaceful.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I met beings who I expected to meet, where I expected to go, and I met beings who I did not expect to meet in unexpected places. To see what was communicated, and how, look above.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Everything was light basically, light and brilliant color.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A universe made of pure light and color.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I had knowledge, expediential knowledge, of everything. But it has gone from me now.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     My life was judged by the only Just being in the universe. The only true judge of souls. I learned that what I believe in is real.

The experience included:      Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I am ninety-eight percent sure of how and when this world will end, and how all will die. But again, I cannot explain details.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I remember making the decision, but not the reason why anymore.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Liberal   Catholic/Christian

What is your religion now?      Liberal   Same

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My faith was proven by fact.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best was leaving my body and joining God. The worst was returning.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1phillip_s_nde.html