{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pierre_q_nde.html","mytitle":"Pierre Q FDE 2130","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pierre Q FDE 2130  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pierre Q FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  						568  Pierre Q FDE  2130  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I was in my climbing class, and we had to climb in order to train for the final test, seven days later. I wanted to climb on a wall I had never tried before; I got courageous and said to myself 'Let's do it'!

So I started, and then I had to cling my rope to the first hook on the wall; I was not really at my ease and I tried many times before succeeding. As I stayed nearly two minutes on the same stones, when I decided to go on climbing, my fingers were all weird and it was horribly difficult to grab a stone on the wall. And being like that three meters far from the floor is not really reassuring.

So I continued climbing, struggling against my paralyzed body and my growing fear. I clung my second hook on the wall, then the third. At that time, I became really exhausted and I was wondering if I could even finish climbing that frightening wall.

Then I was haunted by fear and I felt that my body was at the end of its capacities. I climbed a bit more, and at this moment, it became too difficult. I straightened my leg and realized I could not grab anything else. My hand wanted to grip a stone, but it could not. It was the end. Time was passing slowly, while I was falling, or rather my body was.  My soul was leaving, fleeing my body. The white color on my face now got into my eyes. I became at the same time completely terrified and petrified with fear, but also happy, calm, and enjoying the coming death that was taking my spirit out of me.

This was the supreme state of this experience, perfect happiness and complete silence all around me.

But that lasted almost one second, no more. The attached hooks made me come back to reality by reminding me I was clung. It woke me up, all of sudden. Time was now passing at a normal speed, and I was confused with what had happened just a second before.

I got off the wall and preferred letting go for this time. Sometimes now I think I may have liked that the rope was not clung, so that I could go further into this extreme state of mind, this intense happiness.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 2005  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         Rather small accident... nothing dangerous actually, but frightening.  Other Climbing  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just before I fell off.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Time was very slow.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All was light, there was no dark.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I did not hear any noise, but I'm sure there was some.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     I was able to feel the Other World, the world of souls and spirits.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Just on the rest of the day, I was completely happy and joyful with people, but I could not explain why.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Time passed slowly. My soul was leaving my body; I was really fine to feel my body falling, but at the same time, fear made me come to it.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it, but I was alone to feel such weird things about death.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   When I was ten, I was stood on the floor, I could not move an inch, and my tension decreased very quickly. I saw all turning around me and I fell unconscious. I felt the same state of mind, happy and calm, satisfied by what was happening.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Such a state of mind meant something, it was there for something, and I'm sure it was real.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pierre_q_nde.html