{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V22 1908","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v22_1908.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V22 1908","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXII
(CONTAINING PART LVII)
1908
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings iti papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
GLASGOW
ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
1908
{The Rights of Translation and Reproduction are reserved)
CONTEXTS
PAET LVII.
October, 1908.
1. Presidential Address. By jMrs. Henry Sidgwick, - - - 1
II. A Series of Concordant Automatisms. By J. G. Piddington.
Introduction,
^9
List of Sittings with Mrs. Pipei', - - - - . , - 27
Explanation of Abbreviations and Teims, - - - -
29
Cases of Cross-Correspondence,
I. St. Paul, 31
II. Erancis and Ignatius, 35
III. Triangle within a Circle, - -
- 36
IV. Steeple, .>g
V. Library, niy own Name and Mrs. Sidgvvick’s, -
43
\ I. Hope, Star and Browning, -^9
VII. Arrow,
VIII. Giant and Dwarf, -------- 81
IX. Laurel Wreath, ~
94
X. Celestial Halcyon Days, - - - - . . - 103
XL Crossing the Bar. The ai’ro? oi’paros' aKV/jLijiv Incident, - 107
XII. Violets, jy.-)
XIII. Cup, ---------- 179
XT \ . Diana, -
193
XV. Heaven lies about us in our Infancy, and Faith, Hope
and Chai’ity,
XVI. Euripides,
XVII. Spirit and Angel, 2-K)
PAGE
iv ..... C01,l,fentS, ,c.c<r r r.c
•..• ;
, t e * » c » < t « r t < c ( < t
XVIII. (.)’er Mon'ut'aih.^, Seas' .ancl'I^afeesa^irl'IIivei’s,
XIX. Light ill West, . . . . .
XX. Azure and Horizon, - - - -
XXL Thanatos,
XXII. Laus Deo,
XXIII. Music, - - - - - -
The Latin Message,
230
241
281
295
304
307
312
III. An Incident in Mrs. Piper’s Trance ; being an attempt to elicit
from Myersp evidence of acquaintance with a circumstance in the
life of Fredei'ic Myers. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 417
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LVII.
October, 1908.
I.
PRKSIDEXTIAL ADDRESS.
Delivered on Maij l^th, 1908.
BY MRS. HENRY SIDGWICK.
Psychical Research has, both since the Society was founded
and for several years before that, occupied so large a place in
my life and thoughts—the investigations the Society was
founded to promote have seemed to me so important, and
likely to be so far reaching in their effects, that the honour
of being invited to fill the President’s chair has naturally
been very gratifying to me. At the same time when I look
at the list of my predecessors, and note how many of them
have been eminent in Philosophy, Psychology or Physical
Science, I feel it is difficult to succeed them with credit ;
and I have decided that my best chance of interesting you
will be not to attempt in this address to make any original
contribution to the philosophy or science of the subjects with
A
2 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvicl:. [part
which our Society is concerned, but rather to review our
position—taking stock as it were of the progress made during
the 26 years of the Society’s life, and considering what are
the most hopeful lines of advance at present. Such a general
survey has naturally at various times formed a subject of
presidential addresses, but not I think very recently.
I will refer first to worldly prosperity. Of the improve-
ment of our position in this respect we have three indications.
The first is increased membership, whicli is very important
from the pecuniary point of view, but yet more as implying
increased effective interest in our work. We may congratulate
ourselves too on the number of persons eminent in other
branches of scientific research whom we continue to add to our
ranks.
A second indication of the cfreater estimation in which we
O
are held may, I think, be found in the tone of presidential
addresses. I notice tliat in the early years of the Society
these were largely occupied with apologies for its existence,
and defence of its aims and methods against attacks from
unscientifically incredidous scientists on the one hand and
unscientifically credulous spiritualists on the othei\ Since
about 1889 this attitude has changed—not that attacks from
both these points of view do not continue, but they affect us
less. We stand more firmly on our own feet and our aims
and methods are better understood and consequently more
widely sympathised with.
A third indication of material prosperity is the growth of
our endowment fund—a very necessary part of our equipment,
and likely to become more and more necessary as the work
grows. Bequests from late members and gifts from present
members have already raised the fund to an important sum,
though not yet sufficient for present and prospective needs.
And I may remark that some contributions to this fund
—
such as the one lately announced in the Journal from Lord
Eayleigh, President of the Eoyal Society and from the beginning
one of our Vice-Presidents —are valuable not only as adding
to the fund but for the moral support they bring.
Tills is an appropriate place to announce that lately we
have learnt that the Society will receive an important addition
to its funds—amounting probably to some £3000 or £4000,
Presidential Add.ress. 3
Lvn.]
through the bequest of Mr. H. A. Kay, a member who died a
few months ago.
Worldly prosperity, though it furthers our work and is even
indispensable to its full development, is no measure of the
work itself, and we must now turn to review the progress made
in this work, and to consider the prospects before us and the
difficulties that beset our path. And lest in what follows I
should seem to dwell more on difficulties than on success, and
should appear to some unduly cautious, let me say at the outset
that no one can feel more strongly than I do the value and
importance of the work we are engaged on or be more confident
that it is worth all the time and energy we can spend on it.
Kor can any one more sincerely congratulate our Society on the
work it has already done and is doing, or look forward more
hopefully to the progress that lies before us.
In the paper describing the objects of the Society which is
sent to enquirers, the principal departments of work are
described under five heads, which may be briefly stated as
follows :
—(1) Telepathy ; (2) Hypnotism and Clairvoyance ;
(3) Spontaneous veridical apparitions ; (4) The physical pheno-
mena of spiritualism; (5) The historical investigation of the
same subjects. This catalogue is, of course, not exhaustive. It
is difficult, for instance, to say under which head we should
place Professor Barrett’s full and interesting investigation,
experimental and historical, into dowsing—the finding of water
and other things by the so-called divining rod—published in
Volumes XIII. and XV. of our Proceedings. Possibly, as he
suggests provisionally,^ the proper place may be under the head
of Clairvoyance—so far, of course, as the success of the dowser
cannot be attributed to external indications. If it is due to
clairvoyance it affords almost the only evidence we have of
pure clairvoyance or telaesthesia —the perception by means
other than the senses of physical facts unknown to any living
human being and therefore not explicable by any extension of
the faculty of telepathy between living minds. This distinction
between clairvoyance which may possibly be telepathic and
that which cannot is I think of great theoretic importance.
There were in old days alleged cases of pure clairvoyance
—
e.g. of the reading of mottoes enclosed in nuts ;
but we have
^ Proceedings, Vol. XV. p. 314.
•i Mrs. Henry Sidgtviek. [part
in this Society come across exceedingly little clear evidence
of it,^ unless it is exemplified in dowsing. The best recent
case I know which seems 'pririia facie to suggest clairvoyance
is one contributed by Professor William James to the
Proceedings of the American Society (Part II.) and briefly
noticed in our Journal last October. In this case the position
of a dead body for which search had been vainly made was
correctly described, and afterwards identified, by a spontaneously
entranced person, though neither she nor (so far as can be
discovered) any other living person can have known about it
normally.
The paucity of evidence for pure clairvoyance gives special
interest to the question whether successful dowsing ever in-
volves it, or whether on the contrary it is to be explained by
some obscure and hitherto undiscovered physical faculty. In
whatever way this question is answered, however, there is no
doubt that dowsing is a form of motor automatism. In what-
ever way the presence of, say, underground water reveals itself
to the unconscious strata of the mind, the knowledge is
expressed through the involuntary muscular movement which
twists the forked twig used as a divining rod. The great extent
to which automatism, as an external expression of subliminal
mentation, pervades all the departments of our work is one
of the things that we have learnt in the last 26 years.
This fact and its importance will be present to the minds
of all who have read Mr. j\Iyers’s great work on Human
Personality.
Hypnotism, chiefly because it enables the experimenter to
communicate with the subconscious strata of the mind in a
definite way, is one of the most effective means we have of
experimentally investigating automatism and the relation of
tlie subconscious to the conscious mind. This alone makes its
study of the utmost importance to us, quite apart from any
supernormal faculties that hypnotised persons occasionally ex-
hibit. The progress that hypnotism has made since 1882 is
amusingly marked by the fact that when the Society was
founded enquiry into the reality of hypnotic anaesthesia—
a
' I have not forgotten Professor Ricbet’s experiments in “lucidity” published
in Proceedings, Vol. V. pp. 77-116 (1888), but they can hardly, I think, be
regarded as altogether beyond explanation by chance.
LVii.] Presidential Address. 5
thing which no well instructed person now doubts —was set
down among objects of investigation. We cannot of course
claim that it is our Society which has brought about the now
general recognition of the existence of hypnotism, nor more
than a part of the great advance made in our knowledge of it.
We have no doubt contributed to this advance, but the credit
is chiefly due to members of the medical profession who have
used hypnotism in their practice. Their investigations are
closely related to ours for the reason that suggestive therapeutics
and psychical research both have much to do with the sub-
conscious mind ;
and we are fortunate in having many of the
leading exponents of hypnotism both in England and abroad
actively interested in the work of the Society.
It is, I think, inevitable that the study of hypnotism should
be mainly in the hands of medical men, and it is probably also
desirable ;
but it would be disastrous if this were to confine
investigation to the therapeutic aspect of the subject. The
purely psychological knowledge that may be gained through
hypnotism is obviously of the greatest scientific importance
;
and especially is it so to psychical researchers, through the
light thrown on subconscious mentation, on dissociation of
personality, and on hidden powers of the human mind. In
the psychology of the subject our Society can boast of valuable
work, as evidence of which I may refer to Mr. Gurney’s
important papers in early volumes of the Proceedings, and to
Dr. Milne Bramwell’s, and (quite recently) Dr. Mitchell’s ex-
periments on the Appreciation of Time by Somnambules.^ Nor
have we been without confirmation of the manifestation of
supernormal faculties in the hypnotic state, as, for instance, in
the case of Dr. Alfred Backman’s subjects in Sweden or Dr.
Wiltse’s in the United States of America.^
In connection with hypnotism I may remark that it is to the
study of this subject, and the light it has thrown on the power
of suggestion, that we largely owe our present knowledge of the
quite special difficulties that attend experiments in psychical
subjects. In experimental work progress is made by taking
some provisional hypothesis and testing it—or, to put it other-
wise, by asking nature questions to which phenomena obtained
^Proceedings, Vol. XII. p. 179; Vol. XXI. p. 2.
- Proceedings, Vol. VII.
6 Mrs. Henry Sidgiuick. [part
under suitably arranged conditions give the answers. That,
indeed, is what we mean by experiment. The special difficulties
inherent in psychical experiments arise from the fact that dealing
as we do with the human mind under circumstances where
suggestion is powerful, both the question itself which we address
to nature and the expectations as to the answer become to an
unknown extent part of the conditions to be dealt with and are
liable to be disturbing factors very difficult to eliminate. For
instance, it is, I think, now generally admitted that the theories
as to hypnotic processes put forward by Dr. Charcot and the
Salpetriere school were largely vitiated by insufficient attention
to the effect of preconceived ideas as to what was expected to
happen, with which the observers themselves inspired the
patients. Suggestion in its widest sense too is as likely to
operate in inhibiting phenomena as in affecting their form, and
it seems not unlikely that the difference in the kind of psychical
phenomena observed with hypnotic patients by e.g. Dr. Elliotson
in the fifties and Dr. Eramwell now, may be partly due to the
mental attitude of the experimenters acting on the patients.
Especially may this be so if telepathy be a vera causa, since in
that case the utmost effort to conceal thoughts and feelings
might fail to prevent unintended mcoital suggestion. To the
difficulties arising from suggestibility we have to add those due
to the operation of subliminal inferences and memories which
are often hard to detect. The extreme care and caution in
drawing conclusions which all this necessitates may well make
progress slow ;
but every branch of scientific investigation has
its special difficulties, and ours sliould not discourage us, but on
the contrary stimulate us to greater efibrt.
Following the order of the list of departments of the Society’s
work already referred to we come after hypnotism to the collec-
tion and investigation of spontaneous veridical apparitions and
analogous phenomena. It would, I think, be generally admitted,
even by those not yet convinced of telepathy, that the work done
under the auspices of the Society has thrown a new light on
the subject of apparitions. And most of us here present have
probably been convinced of the telepathic origin of many of
them by the evidence ably set forth by Mr. Gurney, Mr. Myers,
and Mr. Podmore in the book Phcmtasms of the Living in 1886.
This evidence has been supported by further cases constantly
LVII.] Presidential Address. 7
received since then, and has been, supplemented in an important
way by the so-called “ Census of Hallucinations ”
—the statistical
investigation and classification of the spontaneous hallucinations
of persons in ordinary health—published in Volume X. of the
Proceedings. But there remains much to be done both in
collecting more well-evidenced cases and in getting the import-
ance of recording experiences immediately to be more generally
understood. More cases are wanted not only in order to
convince the scientific world, but in order that a comparative
study of the experiences may throw light on their nature and
origin. Each carefully observed case may have features of its
own confirming or contradicting some previous hypothesis or
suggesting new considerations. For instance, the interesting
case- read by Professor Barrett at the last meeting (see Journcd,
Vol. XIII. p. 228) differs in some important respects from any
that—so far as I remember—we have received before. What is
to be desired is that the Society should be widely understood
to be the repository to which accounts of well-evidenced veridical
hallucinations should be sent as soon after their occurrence as
possible, and I think members of the Society might help more
than they do tq bring this state of things about. One of the
advantages of a society is that it may bring us into touch with
a wider circle, and therefore with more persons having experi-
ences than would be possible for any one working alone.
But it may be asked—how many cases ought we to expect to
receive, and is it reasonable to expect more than are now sent
to us ? It is not of course possible to answer this question
exactly, but some light is thrown on it by the “ Census of
Hallucinations.” It appears {Proceedings, Vol. X. p. 242) that
among the 17,000 persons who answered the census question
apparitions representing a dead or dying person within 12 hours
of the death were reported to have occurred to percipients over
the age of 10 on eleven different occasions during the previous
ten years. From this we may infer that from a circle of 17,000
persons such occurrences are likely to be heard of at the rate
of about one a year. The census enquiry closed in May 1892—
sixteen years ago. I have looked through the Journal to see
how many cases of the above type, sufficiently well evidenced
to print, have been reported to us during these 16 years. I
find that there are eight, including one in which it is not certain
8 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
that the person whose apparition was seen had not been dead
for more than 12 hoursd Eight in 16 years is about half the
census proportion, and what makes it worse is that only two of
these cases belong to the last ten years—the period from 1898
to 1908.
Of course other interesting spontaneous veridical cases have
been printed in the Journal since 1892. I do not mean that
there are only seven interesting experiences in all. I select a
particular well-defined class because this facilitates numerical
comparison ;
and if we have received fewer than we might
reasonably expect of this class—a specially interesting one—it
is probable that other classes are inadequately represented also.
I must, however, in fairness admit at this point that of the
eleven “ census ” cases just mentioned only seven, or about two-
thirds, were judged sufficiently well evidenced to print—and
that probably to make the statistical comparison accurate some
additions for insufficiently evidenced cases ought to be made to
the eight printed in the Journal since 1892. At the same time
we must remember that there ought now to be a more widely
spread understanding of the importance of making the evidence
good than there was in the comparatively dark ages before
Phantasms of the lAving was published, and that consequently
fewer cases should be lost through carelessness. However, we
cannot expect perfection, and probably some cases have been
so lost.
I do not wish to lay too much stress on the numbers I have
given. With so rare a phenomenon and such short periods we
cannot of course expect a constant proportion. I think, however,
that we may infer that at least as regards apparitions at the time
of death we do not draw from so large a circle as the 17,000
who answered the census question. You will perhaps say that
it is unreasonable on my part to expect that we should, because
when answers to the census question were collected a special
effort was made, and we are not likely to be generally in touch
with anything like so large a circle. I cannot agree with this
—
at least I certainly think we might spread our net more widely
than we do. There are now 1138 members and associates of
'The eight cases will be found as follows :
—
Journal, Vol. VI. p. 280 ; p. 368 ;
Vol. VII. p. 121 ;
Vol. VIII. p. 41 ;
Vol. IX. p. 306 ;
Vol. XII. p. 59 ;
Vol. XIII.
p. 103 ; p. -234.
LVII.] Presidential Address. 9
the Society, and if they were all sufficiently interested to exert
themselves as much as some of them do they could surely
effectively reach a numher of persons approaching the 17,000
who were asked the census question by 410 collectors.
I may take this opportunity of allaying a suspicion which
I think exists in the minds of some members—the suspicion,
namely, that well-evidenced cases are sent to the Society, which,
through the perversity of the Editor of the Journal, or false
economy on the part of the Council, are not printed. This is
far from being the case. Well-evidenced cases are always printed,
except in the very rare instances in which onr informants ask
us not to print. It is true, however, that we have somewhat
raised our standard, especially in the matter of the interval
between experience and record ;
and I think it is true also that
—the kind of evidence required being better understood than
it used to be—fewer badly-evidenced cases are sent to us now
than formerly. Cases which cannot be brought up to a useful
evidential standard ought not, of course, to be printed by the
Society ;
though some of them are worth storing in view of
possible evidential improvement, or because they belong to a
class—such as some haunted house cases, or some doubtfully
veridical experiences of living percipients—which may become
important through possible future experiences or developments.
There would doubtless be differences of opinion as to what
standard a case should reach to make it worth printing, but I
do not think that any competent judge would be likely either
to regard the evidential standard adopted in the Journal as too
high, or to think any imprinted cases clearly above it.
Before I leave this subject let me again express the hope that
members will increase their efforts to get on the track of
interesting cases, and to bring them up to as complete an
evidential standard as possible.
There is one department of the Society’s activities in which
hardly any real progress has been made—I mean the investiga-
tion of the physical phenomena of spiritualism, or I may say
for shortness, telekinesis. So far as I can judge, this subject
stands almost exactly where it did 26 years ago, when the
Society was founded. The first President of the Society said in
his first presidential address that it was “ a scandal that the dis-
pute as to the reality of these phenomena should be still going
10 iMrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
on,” and that it was a primary aim of the Society “ to make a
sustained and systematic attempt to remove the scandal in one
way or the other.” Nevertheless, the scandal remains. On the
one hand the phenomena are still swamped in fraud, and so har
as they are reported to us still occur for the most part in the
presence of professional mediums who are sooner or later
detected in trickery : and, on the other hand, evidence continues
to be offered from time to time which cannot be disregarded
owing either to our confidence in the skill and judgment of the
persons offering it and their experience in this kind of investi-
gation, or in a few cases to the moral trustworthiness of all
concerned.
There are, of course, some results from the various investiga-
tions that have been carried on. On the negative side, besides an
extended experience of trickery and credulity, we have acquired
—
largely through the work of Mr. S. J. Davey and Dr. Hodgson
—
a much more definite experimental knowledge of the possibilities
of mal-observation than we possessed when the Society was
founded. Also our greatly extended knowledge of motor auto-
matism has shown us that the possibility of sub-conscious
muscular action—even very complicated action—has to be
reckoned with more than we knew in 1882. On the positive
side we have, as I have said, the conviction of a few persons
whose judgment cannot be ignored, that they have seen genuine
phenomena even with professional mediums ;
and a few cases
like that of Mr. Stainton Moses (though his case, by the way,
occurred before the Society started), where there is great
improbability of conscious deception, and where unconscious
automatic action has at least not been discovered. I cannot,
however, myself feel confident that in these cases the possi-
bilities of error have been sufficiently excluded, or that a
conclusion either way is at present justified. There is still
—
to use a phrase with which we were all very familiar in
the early days of the Society—a prima facie case for
investigation.
How then can the investigation be furthered ? In the first
place I should like to urge strongly that fraud should be more
seriously discouraged than it is at present. I cannot help
thinking that if telekinesis is a genuine phenomenon we could
not but have known more about it by now than we do, had
LVii.] Presidenticd Address. 11
it not been for the extent to which it is mixed up with fraud.
And the reason there is so much fraud is that it pays so well.
As a rule the fraudulent medium runs no serious risk even of
loss of credit through discovery. Between the credulous and
the curious the medium who has been exposed is as much
in demand after exposure as before. If every medium dis-
covered in systematic trickery could be at once dropped and
ignored, the disgusting trade of fraudulent mediumship would
soon cease to be profitable, and the ground of investigation
—
assuming that there are genuine phenomena to investigate
—
would be considerably cleared. Of course this is a cpiestiou
of policy, and there are leading members of the Society, as well
as many outside it, who do not agree with me. For myself,
however, I feel strongly that as things are no evidence for
telekinesis obtained with professional mediums is likely to
produce any permanent impression on the scientific world.
One of the evils arising from the trickery pervading physical
mediumship, and the bad name consequently attaching to it, is
that private persons who suspect in themselves telekinetic powers
are apt to be deterred from pursuing the subject. It was one
of the hopes of the founders of the Society that private
mediums would be encouraged to come forward and give their
assistance in investigation. In other branches of our enquiry
this has happened, and progress has been largely due to the
intelligent and energetic interest in the phenomena and their
origin and cause taken by persons who have found themselves
possessed of telepathic or other psychical faculties. But in
telekinesis practically no disinterested person has come forward
in this country apparently possessing the power and at the
same time taking a scientific interest in its investigation suffi-
cient to carry them through the tedium of careful experiment.
Given an investigator with telekinetic power the simplest
manifestations of it —such as movements of small objects
without contact—would lend themselves best to satisfactory
investigation in the first instance. Possibly it might be best
to approach them through automatic movements with contact,
which are by no means uncommon, and to try to develop these
into movements without contact, but there are of course dangers
of self-deception in this course. In any case what is wanted
is numerous experiments without contact under carefully planned
12 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
conclitioDS calculated first to exclude all known physical
explanations and all possibility of hallucination, and secondly
to throw light on the mechanical nature of the phenomenon,
where the reaction is, and so forth. I am, of course, saying
nothing new in saying this ;
but it is worth repeating, for
evidence of this kind and a good deal of it is the minimum
which is likely to produce any permanent effect.
Another line of investigation I should like to see pursued
in this connection is on the negative side—it is investigation
into the question of the occurrence of sensory hallucinations
under conditions similar to those of s&nces for physical phenomena.
The importance in scientific investigations of eliminating the
possibility of subjective illusion and hallucination may be illus-
trated from other branches of research than ours. The history
of the X-rays is instructive in this way. The supposed dis-
covery of these rays was referred to by Professor Eichet, in his
address as President of this Society in February, 1905, as an
example of the difficulty in certain cases of arriving either at
a positive or a negative conclusion even about facts alleged
to be demonstrable by experimental evidence which could be
repeated at will. Their history has lessons for us in relation
to our own investigations in more ways than one, and I will
venture brielly to recall some of the circumstances to your
minds.
It was in 1903 that Professor Blondlot, a French physicist
of repute, observed, while investigating Eontgen rays, some
effects which he attributed to a hitherto unobserved kind of
radiation having a vibratory character like light and heat, and
to which he gave the name of N-rays. He even thought a
little later that he could, by suitable arrangements, measure
their wave length approximately.^ They emanated, according
to his observation, from a variety of sources, among others
from certain metals and other substances in a state of strain
;
and presently a physiological colleague, Professor Charpentier,
reported that they also emanated from the muscles (when
contracted) and the active nerve centres of living bodies.
IMany remarkable properties of these rays were reported one
after another almost every week in the early part of 1904,
and hopes were raised that the discovery would prove a source
^Gomptes Eenclus, Vol. CXXXVIII. (1st half of 1904) p. 125.
lvil] Presidential Address. 13
of further knowledge not only of the constitution of matter,
but even of the nature of vital processes.
The IST-rays were not visible, and the way in which their
presence was made apparent to the senses was through the
increase in the brightness of a feeble source of light, such as
a very tiny gas jet or electric spark or a surface painted with
luminous paint, when IST-rays fell on it; or again, by the
increased power of the eye to see faintly illuminated
objects when N-rays fell on the retina. Naturally physicists
all over the world tried to repeat the experiments, but though
a few said the effects to be observed were marked and unmis-
takable, the majority of those who tried could not see the
differences described at all. It is true that photographs
exhibiting differences in the luminosity of a small electric
spark when believed to be exposed to N-rays were offered
by Professor Blondlot as proof of the objectivity of the
phenomenon ;
but others failed to get similar photographs
under satisfactory conditions, and in any case such photographs
would not have gone very far towards proving the existence
of rays with the peculiar properties claimed for N-rays. The
continued non-success of so many skilled experimenters in
repeating the experiments could not but suggest that in the
successful experiments enough care had not been taken to
exclude personal and subjective elements—to make sure that
the observations were in no way influenced by the observers’
expectations.
^
Some of those who had unsuccessfully endeavoured to repeat
the experiments took opportunities of visiting laboratories in
which the observations had been made, and when shown the
^Professor Salvioni of Messina published in July, 1904, some experiments
on himself, which led him gravely to suspect that in his own previous
repetition of Professor Blondlot’s observations auto-suggestion and optical
illusion played an important part. [Atti della reale Academia dei Lyncei,
July 19, 1904, xiii. No. 12 p. 703.) He was unable to carry out his experi-
ments as completely as he would have desired, because he found himself no
longer able to see as clearly as before the variations in apparent luminosity
which were the subject of experiment. This —if it was, as seems probable, a
result of his critical attitude—is perhaps instructive for us in our investigations.
Professor Pierre Weiss of Zurich, who had also believed himself to have verified
some of the recorded observations, wrote to the Revue Scientifique for Dec. 3,
1904, an account of experiments which led him to the conclusion that psycho-
physiological causes had operated in his case.
14 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
processes were confirmed in negative conclusions. One of them
—
an American physicist, Professor E. W. Wood—published an
account of his experiences.^ The following are some of them.
Pirst he failed to see the supposed brightening of a stream of
small electric sparks when the N-rays were concentrated on it
by an aluminium lens. His host thought this must be due to
want of sensitiveness in his eyes as the difference was most
distinct when the X-rays were intercepted by a hand interposed
between their source and the spark. Professor Wood suggested
that an attempt should be made, by observing the illumination,
to announce the exact moment when his hand was introduced
into the path of the rays, the observer not having other means
of knowing whether the hand was there or not. The attempt
failed completely ;
alternating brightness and dimness were
announced while the hand was held motionless in the path of
the supposed rays, and when the hand was moved the
fluctuations observed had no relation to the movements.
He was afterwards shown the deviation of the rays by an
aluminium prism which was alleged not only to bend the rays
thrown on it through a slit, but to spread them out into a
spectrum. The positions of the deflected rays were detected
by a thin strip of luminous paint moved across them which
became more brilliant at certain points. Professor Wood was
again unable to see any change whatever in the brilliancy of
the phosphorescent line as it moved across, and he presently
found that the secret removal of the prism (the I'oom was
dark) did not seem to interfere in any way with the observa-
tions of his host.
A third experiment consisted in showing that circles painted
in luminous paint showed more distinctly in a dark room when
a steel file—steel being a source of X-rays—was brought near
them. Again Professor Wood could not himself see any effect
though it was said to be very marked, and presently he found
that when he held the file so that his body—which should
have been an effective screen—was between it and the phos-
phorescent circles, while he moved his arms towards and away
from them, his host still observed the same changes.
A fourth experiment consisted in holding the fde so that
the X-rays from it fell on the eye, whereupon in a nearly
^ N'ature, Sept. 29, 1904, p. .'i.SO.
LVii.] Presidential Address. lo
dark room a wliite .dock face bccairxje ^)r 9 re distinctly visible
than before. Again Professor Wood saw no difference, but he
found that his host’s observation of it was in no way interfered
with by the secret substitution for the file of a piece of wood
of similar size and shape.
It is not surprising that Professor Wood, like others, left
the laboratory with a firm conviction that the few experi-
menters who had obtained positive results in the observations
of N-rays had been in some way deluded. And while leaving
the question whether N-rays have any objective existence or
not to the physicists,^ we may safely agree that thei'e certainly
was delusion on the occasion of Professor Wood’s visit and
profitably examine what the nature of the delusion was.
Slight variations in sensation, especially on the margin of
svhat we can perceive, may and do occur from physiological
causes. Professor Plondlot and others concerned were of course
well aware of this, and the point of their observations was not
that variations in appai’ent brightness occurred, but that these
variations which they described as marked coincided with an
external physical event so constantly as to render the conclusion
inevitable that there was a causal connection. What Professor
Wood showed was that the variations coincided with the idea of
the event as readily as with the event itself. The difference of
sensation was therefore nor purely pliysiologically caused, nor,
on the other hand, was it due to the external physical cause.
It was, in fact, a hallucination produced by expectation, though
no doubt a hallucination of a simple kind.
I have called your attention to this partly because, as I have
said, I think it possible that visual (and other) hallucinations due
to suggestion or self-suggestion occur at seances for physical
phenomena more than we realise. We start with the knowledge
that many persons can induce hallucinations by gazing into
crystals ;
that such hallucinations are sometimes collective, as for
instance at a sAxnce of which an interesting account is given in
the Journal, Vol. XII. p. 17, when similar figures were seen
by the four sitters in a large mirror opposite to which tliey sat
;
that at other seances of which we have records certain
phenomena were clearly of a hallucinatory character whatever
^ An excellent discussion of the question will be found in the Revue. Scientifique,
second volume for 1904.
1(3 [part
2Irs. Henry Sidgtvick.
their cause that-halluciu,atious of, a dehnite. kiRdlcan be induced
by suggestion in good hypnotic subjects even in the waking
state; and now, from the N-ray experiments, that expectation can
produce hallucinations, at least of an elementary sort, in a
darkened room in the case of persons in a perfectly normal state.
Further investigation and, if possible, experiment is certainly
called for in .this direction. The bearing of the question on the
evidence for telekinesis is obvious.
There is another lesson to be drawn from the story of the
X-rays. It is not only in the subjects cur Society exists to
investigate that the scientific world is cautious, and has need to
be cautious, in accepting conclusions depending on observations
which cannot be repeated by others and checked. It is not mere
prejudice but the legitimate caution that should be exercised in
all branches of science that makes scientific men chary of
accepting as sufficient the evidence so far offered for telekinesis
or even for telepathy. Tlie hesitation will be overcome if and
when the conditions under which these things occur are dis-
covered, so that they can be brought more under control and
observations repeated at will under definable conditions ;
but in
the meanwhile, as I have said, much would be done to remove
scepticism by careful observation under as many conditions as
possible.
I now turn from telekinesis, which is to me the most
depressing branch of our investigations, to speak briefly of the
most encouraging, that which at present promises the most
fruitful harvest, namely, telepathy. The Society started with its
face already set in this direction, and as we all know its efforts
were from the first successful, not only in collecting the
spontaneous experiences apparently due to telepathy to which
1 have already referred, but in obtaining opportunities for
experiment and reports of experiments carefully carried out. It
is true that it cannot yet be said that the scientific world
generally has admitted telepathy as a fact, but it is not
uncommon to hear educated persons offering it as a rational
explanation of unusual experiences without apirarently any sense
of invoking an unrecognised cause and even with the feeling that
^ For some useful information about this matter as well as about the history
of telekinesis generally, I should like to refer my hearers to Mr. Podmore’s
excellent book on Modern Spiritualism.
LVli.] Presidential Address. 17
that they are stemming the tide of superstition in not admitting
anything more occult. Indeed, the acceptance of telepathy is
wide enough to expose us to a serious danger that persons who
might furnish evidence may refrain from doing so because they
think the telepathic question is settled and that there is no
further need of observation or experiment. It is fortunate that
at least some of our members realise the contrary, as the
interesting paper (see Journal, Vol. XIII., p. 243) read by Miss
Miles at our last meeting shows.
There are two important reasons why much more evidence is
required. The first is the one already referred to, that in default
of being able to repeat experiments at will under given
conditions, we can only establish the truth of telepathy—get it
admitted by scientific men as a vera cai(,sa—by showing that it
occurs between so many different and apparently trustworthy
persons under so many different conditions that any possibility of
the results being due to chance, or self-deception, or unnoticed
indications, may be excluded by sheer weight of evidence.
The second reason for wide experimentation and observation
is even more important. It is that we do not yet know the
nature of telepathy. There are two opposing views as to its
probable nature among those who accept it as a fact. Some, like
Professor Flournoy, approaching the subject from the physio-
logical side, believe on a priori grounds that the transmission is
from brain to brain through some physical medium—that it is,
in fact, more or less analogous to wireless telegraphy. Others,
like our late President, approaching the question from the
philosophical side, are inclined to regard telepathy as a purely
psychical phenomenon—a direct interaction of mind with mind.
It is in harmony with this second view, if not absolutely
essential to it, to hold that mind can exist independently of the
body, and is therefore capable of surviving the dissolution of the
latter. Inve.stigation into the real nature of telepathy is thus
intimately connected with the most important and far reaching
problems involved in our enquiry. If the question is capable of
scientific determination, however, much more evidence than we
at present possess will be required, and any evidence we can
obtain of survival after bodily death is likely to throw light on
the nature of telepathy and rice versa.
The accumulation of evidence is and must be a slow process,
B
18 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part lvii.]
not only because very few of us seem able to act as agents or
percipients in a manner which lends itself to observation or
experiment, but also because of the experimental difficulties
inherent in psychical research of which I spoke earlier in this
address. Notwithstanding the immense difficulties of the subject,
howeve'?', evidence is slowly accumulating, and some progress is
being made. Lately we seem to have made a distinct advance
through the automatic writing of Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. “ Holland,”
and others, and the trance writing of Mrs. Piper, some of which
has been put before the Society at several recent meetings, and
which is likely to occupy a large place in the Proceedings for
some time to come.
The evidence needs careful and critical study; 'it is not of a
sensational character, it is not likely to make good copy for the
Daily Mail, and I am not sure how far it will impress the
majority of readers. Those, however, who follow the work of the
Society carefully will, I think, perceive that in these scripts we
have at least material for extending our knowledge of telepathy.
They will probably be disposed further to admit that the form
and matter of the cross-correspondences that occur between the
different scripts (produced at a distance from one another) afford
considerable ground for supposing the intervention behind the
automatists of another mind independent of them. If this be so
the question what mind this is becomes of extreme interest and
importance. Can it be a mind still in the body ? or have we got
into relation with minds which have survived bodily death and
are endeavouring by means of the cross- correspondences to
produce evidence of their operation ? If this last hypothesis be
the true one it would mean that intelligent co-operation between
other than embodied human minds and our own, in experiments
of a new kind intended to prove continued existence, has become
possible, and we should be justified in feeling that we are
entering on a new and very important stage of the Society’s
work.
II.
A SEEIES OF CONCOEDANT AUTOMATISMS.
BY J. G. PIDDINGTOX.
Introduction.
Mrs Piper came to England at the invitation of the Council
and between November 10, 1906 and June 2, 1907 gave
74 sittings in all. The management of the sittings was
entrusted by the Council to a committee composed of the
Et. Hon. Gr. W. Balfour, then President of the Society, Sir
Oliver Lodge, Mr Podmore, Mrs Sidgwick and myself.
The Committee decided that the main object of the experi-
ments to be conducted with Mrs Piper should be to encourage
the development of certain controls which had already been
manifesting in her trance—namely, those giving themselves the
names of Henry Sidgwick, Frederic Myers, and Eichard Hodgson
—and also to endeavour to bring about experimentally the
kind of phenomenon to which the name of cross-correspondence
has been given.
Of the upshot of the first of these two objects I will confine
myself here to saying that the Sidgwick control played but a
minor part ;
the Hodgson control showed much activity as
a go-between or master of the ceremonies, as it were, but
gave little evidence of identity and did not, I think, fully
maintain the lifelike character of its earlier manifestations in
America ;
while the Myers control, which had formerly been
lacking in dramatic vitality, displayed a marked advance, par-
ticularly in the vraisemUance of the personation.
It is chiefly with the second of our main objects, the ex-
periments in cross-correspondence, that this paper deals.
20 J. G. Piddington. [part
The first 13 sittings were held at Liverpool or Edgbaston
under the direction of Sir Oliver Lodge. Then came 58 sittings
in London, I being in charge on 35 occasions, Mrs Sidgwick
on 19, and Miss Johnson on two towards the end of the series;
and Mr E. N. Bennett, M.P. had two sittings to himself as a
sec|uel to a successful first sitting which he had had at Boston
shortly before Mrs Piper’s departure for England. The last
three sittings were given in Edgbaston, whence Mrs Piper went
to Scotland for a few weeks’ holiday before returning home.
All the London sittings, with the exception of five held at
Mrs Piper’s flat, took place in the Smoking-room of the Irish
Literary Society at 20 Hanover Square, which we had rented
for this purpose. As regards the London sittings,- the person
in charge of the sitting was present before the trance began
and remained until Mrs Piper had regained normal conscious-
ness. In no case did the sitter enter the seance-room or come
in contact with Mrs Piper until she was fully entranced, and,
except where noted, the sitter left the room before the end of
the trance, and did not come in contact again with Mrs Piper
until the next or some subsequent trance was already in progress.
In all about 120 experiments in cross-correspondence were
made. I cannot give the precise number because the trance-
personalities, when it fell to them to announce the inception
or accomplish.ment of an experiment, did not always state ex-
plicitly that a cross-correspondence had been intended, and also
because in several instances they appear to have combined two
or more messages into one which had at first been given
separately. But the exact total is of little importance, for a
considerable proportion of the coincidences ai’e of far too definite
a character to be accounted for by chance, whatever the pro-
portion of failures, and so the application of any rigorous
statistical metliod is uncalled for. Besides Mrs Piper, the
automatists concerned in these experiments were Mrs Verrall,
Miss Helen Verrall, Mrs Thompson, and the two ladies known
to the members of our Society under the pseudonyms of Mrs
Eorbes and Mrs Holland.
Mrs Verrall liad ten sittings with Mrs Piper, Miss Verrall
five, and Mrs Eorbes four ;
and exactly the same precautions
were observed with them as with the other sitters. They did
not enter the seance-room till the trance had begun, and they
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 21
left it before Mrs Piper had recovered her normal conscious-
ness ;
and they did not hold any intercourse or communication
with Mrs Piper except at these sittings.
Mrs Thompson’s participation was unfortunately very brief,
being, I regret to say, abruptly terminated in consequence of
the unexpected death of her husband after a few days’ illness.
Mrs Forbes was informed of the experiments a few weeks
after they started, but she did not set herself systematically
and regularly to write automatically, and in fact produced only
a few pieces of script, and these show no coincidences with
the scripts of the other automatists.
The subject of cross-correspondence experiments was first
mooted by Sir Oliver Lodge at the sitting with Mrs Piper
held on Nov. 15, 1906 ;
and Mrs Piper gave her last sitting
on June 2, 1907.
The experiments in cross-correspondence, then, extended over
the period Nov. 15, 1906—June 2, 1907.
During this period Mrs Verrall produced in all 63 pieces
of script on 59 different days, the first piece being written
on Nov. 16, 1906 and the last on May 13, 1907. After
May 13 she did not do any more automatic writing for nearly
5 weeks.
During the period Nov. 15, 1906—June 2, 1907 Miss
Verrall produced 17 pieces of script on 17 different days,
the first being written on Nov. 20, 1906 and the last on
May 26, 1907. After May 26 she did not write automati-
cally again till July.
Between Nov. 15, 1906 and July 10, 1907 Mrs Holland
produced 38 pieces of script on 38 different days. I have
extended the period beyond June 2, 1907 in Mrs Holland’s
case, not because that portion of her script which was pro-
duced subsequently to the termination of the Piper sittings
shows any coincidences with Mrs Piper’s script or trance-
utterances, but simply because there was no such definite or
prolonged break in her automatic output as there was in Mrs
and Miss Yerrall’s.
For the purposes, then, of comparison between the automa-
tisms of Mrs Piper, Mrs Verrall, Miss Verrall and Mrs
Holland, I take the following periods: Nov. 15, 1906—June 2,
1907 (Mrs Piper); Nov. 16, 1906—May 13, 1907 (Mrs
22 J. G. Piddington. [part
Verrall); Kov. 20, 1906—May 26, 1907 (Miss Verrall); and
Nov. 21, 1906—July 10, 1907 (Mrs Holland). These periods
I shall from time to time refer to in the course of this paper
as “ the periods under review ”.
Both Mrs and Miss Verrall knew of the experiments with
Mrs Piper; but until the middle of March 1907 Mrs Holland
was entirely unaware that any such experiments were being
conducted.
Miss Verrall’s 17 pieces of script were written at irregular
dates and hours, except on two occasions when the hours were
preconcerted to synchronise with Mrs Piper’s trance.
With Mrs Verrall a more systematic plan was followed
;
27 pieces of her script having been written, mostly by previous
arrangement, either just before or during Mrs Piper’s trances.
The Piper sittings took place, as already stated, eitlier in
London, Liverpool or Edgbaston. Mrs Verrall’s script was done
at Cambridge or Matlock Bath, with the exception of 3 pieces
written in London, 7 in the train between Cambridge and
London and one at Brighton. Of Miss Verrall’s script 14
pieces were clone at Cambridge, 2 at Brighton, and one piece
at Edgbaston. Her visit to Edgbaston did not coincide with
Mrs Piper’s. Mrs Holland was throughout in India.
The script of Mrs Verrall and that of Miss Verrall were
sent to me up to April 5, 1907, and after that date to Miss
Johnson. We in every case noted either on the envelope or
on the script itself the date and hour at which it reached us.
Mrs Holland’s script was sent to Miss Johnson, who
endorsed each script with the date of its arrival.
Mrs Holland remained throughout the entire series of experi-
ments in absolute ignorance of what was written by the other
autoniatists. So likewise did Mrs Piper, unless it be that she
remembers in her normal state things said to her during her
trances ;
and even then the evidential value of the results
would be unaffected, for all she could have learnt in this way
was either that an experiment had been successfully accom-
plished or that it had failed. Mrs Verrall saw at various
dates certain portions of Mrs Holland’s and of Miss Verrall’s
script; and Miss Verrall read or was informed of a few
passages in Mrs Verrall’s script. Careful note was taken at the
time of the extent of the knowledge thus normally acquired
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Aiitomatisms. 23
and of the dates on which it was acquired by Mrs and Miss
Verrall.
It need hardly be said that I shall not bring forward as
evidence of supernormal reciprocation any coincidences which
can be explained by Mrs Verrall’s normal knowledge of parts
of Mrs Holland’s or of Miss Verrall’s script, or by Miss
Verrall’s normal knowledge of parts of Mrs Verrall’s script.
The word or sentence given to the Piper trance-personalities
for reproduction by them through one or more of the other
automatists was selected in eighteen cases by those in charge
of the sittings : five times by Sir Oliver Lodge, eleven times
by myself, and twice by Mrs Sidgwick. Piather over a
hundred subjects for experiment were chosen by the trance-
personalities : one by Imperator, two by Prudens, three by
Eector, 61 by “Myers,” 21 by “Hodgson,” 6 by “Sidgwick,”
one by “ G. P.,” and in a few cases the choice was not
attributed to any special control.
Of the 18 words or phrases selected by the experimenters
only one can be said with certainty to have been successfully
transferred. Of the success achieved in the transmission of
messages chosen by the trance-personalities themselves it would
be idle to attempt to speak in general terms. Each case where
complete or partial or possible success was attained must be
described and studied in detail. I shall deal with the cross-
correspondences in chronological order : that is to say, in the
order in which they were first referred to in the Piper trance.
In the extracts from the records of Mrs Piper’s sittings
printed in small type I have reproduced the abbreviations,
punctuation and other peculiarities of the trance-script. When,
however, quotations from the records occur in passages printed
in large type, I have usually revised the punctuation and
written out in full the abbreviated words. I have in many
cases omitted questions asked by the sitter about undeciphered
words and the subsequent explanations of the trance-person-
alities, and these omissions are usually, though not invariably,
indicated thus But I have in no case omitted any
such passages unless they were entirely unimportant and had
no possible ‘
evidential ’
bearing.
Previous reports on the trance-phenomena of Mrs Piper have
appeared in Proc., Yol. VI., pp. 436-659 ;
Vol. VIII., pp. 1-167;
24 J. G. Piddington. [part
Vol. XIII., pp. 284-582; Vol. XIV., pp. 6-78; and Vol. XVI.,
pp. 1-649. Proc. Vol. XX., pp. 1-432, contains a report by
Mrs Verrall on her own automatic writings ;
and Proc. Vol.
XXI., pp. 166-391, a report by Miss Alice Johnson on Mrs
Holland’s.
Xor an explanation of the parts played in Mrs Piper’s trance
by “ Imperator ”, “ Eector ” and “ Prudens ” the reader is re-
ferred to Proc. Vol. XIII., pp. 408-9, and Vol. XVI., p. 15.
The external features of Mrs Piper’s trance may be briefly
described as follows :
—Mrs Piper sits at a table with a pile of
cushions in front of her, and composes herself to go into
trance. After an interval varying I'rom 2 or 3 to 1 0 minutes
her head drops on the cushions with the face turned to the
left and the eyes closed, her right hand falling at the same
time on to a small table placed on her right side. A pencil
is put between her fingers, and the hand proceeds to write.
The writing being done without the aid of sight and with
the arm in a more or less strained position is often difficult
to decipher, at least without practice ;
but in spite of its not
being easy to read, it is remarkably consistent in character, so
that, its peculiarities once grasped, the correct interpretation of
all but a very few words is not a matter of conjecture. The
coming out of trance is a longer process than the going into
trance. After the hand has ceased to write the medium
remains quiescent for a few minutes. She tlien raises herself
slowly, and often with difficulty, from the cushions. When
the body is erect, she begins to speak. Her utterance at first
is usually indistinct, but as she gradually regains her normal
condition it becomes clearer. All the sittings which Mrs Piper
gave in England were, with one exception, “ writing ” and not
“ voice ” sittings : that is to say, her automatism took the form
of writing and not of speech, except during the waking-stage.
The “ writing ” sittings possess one great advantage over the
“ voice ” sittings, namely, that the automatic phenomena which
occur at them by their very nature record themselves.
The remarks made by the sitters it was our habit to note
down on the sheets of paper on which the entranced Mrs
Piper wrote ;
and these sheets have of course been preserved.
As soon as possible after the conclusion of the trance the
experimenter in charge of the sitting made a full manuscript
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 25
copy both of what Mrs Piper had written and of the notes
of what the sitters had said. This copy—which is spoken of
as “ the record ”
—was annotated by the experimenter and
afterwards typewritten, and, in cases where there had been
another person present at the sitting besides the experimenter,
submitted to this person for the insertion of such comments
and explanations as seemed necessary. The trance-script was
always kept out of Mrs Piper’s sight and taken away at the
end of the sitting, so that she never saw it or had access
to it at any time. In her normal condition she neither asked
for nor received any information whatever about what had
happened at the sittings, except that she was occasionally told
that the results were considered interesting and promising, and
that they were of a different nature from what had previously
been obtained. Since thei’e is strong ground for believing that
in her normal state she remembers absolutely nothing of what
has occurred in the trance state, it would seem impossible that
in the intervals between the sittings she could have got up any
information bearing on them, even had she wished to do so.
Miss Newton, the assistant secretary of the Society, was
present at the beginning and end of several sittings. There were
two reasons for her attendance:—(1) As the controls objected
to Mrs Piper’s being left alone when in trance, and as the sitter
was not allowed to see Mrs Piper until ^le was entranced, it
was necessary to have someone besides the experimenter in
the seance-room, who could go out and tell the sitter when
it was time to come in. (2) Mrs Piper’s utterances during
the waking-stage often cannot be heard unless one stands with
one’s ear close to her mouth (and often not even then) ;
and
when experience had taught us that it was difficult to do this
and to record at the same time, we thought it desirable to
have a second person present, who could stand close to Mrs
Piper and report her indistinct utterances to the recorder.
Beyond what she could learn during these brief and occasional
attendances. Miss Newton knew nothing of the results of the
sittings, and knew nothing whatsoever of the contents of the
scripts of Mrs Verrall, Miss Verrall and Mrs Holland.
Wherever the word “ trance ” or “ sitting ” is used without
qualification in this paper, it means Mrs Piper’s trance or a
sitting with Mrs Piper. The word “ script ” is applied to
26 J. 0. Piddington. [part
the automatic writings of all the automatists, including Mrs
Piper.
In the last section of this paper entitled “ The Latin
Message ” I touch briefly on the rationale of these cross-
correspondence experiments. The reader, however, is strongly
advised to study Chapter VII of Miss Johnson’s Eeport On
the Automatic tvriting of Mrs Holland (Proc. Part LV., pp.
369-391), as it contains a full and lucid exposition of the
theory of cross-correspondences, and so forms an essential
complement of the Introduction to this paper.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 27
List of Sittings with Mrs Piper between November 10, 1906
AND June 2, 1907.
Date. Sitter.
Experi-
menter in
charge.
Place.
(1) 10 Nov. 1906 Mrs Isaac Thompson 0. J. L. Liverpool.
(2) 11 Nov. „ 0. J. L. & E. Thompson 55 55
(3) 12 Nov. „ E. & Miss T. Thompson — 55
(4) 15 Nov. ,,
0. J. L. & Lady Lodge 0. J. L. Edgbaston.
(5) 16 Nov. ,, 55 55 5 ’ '5
(6) 19 Nov. ,,
Lady Lodge 55 5 5
(7) 21 Nov. „ J. H. Muirhead
(8) 23 Nov. „ 0. J. L. 55 55
(9) 26 Nov. ,,
J. 11. Muirhead
(10) 27 Nov. ,, Lady Lodge & Miss Wood-
ward
55 55
(11) 30 Nov. „ 0. J. L. & J. H. Muirhead
(12) iDec. „ Lady Lodge 55
(13) 3 Dec. „ 0. J. L. 0. J. L. 55
(14) 12 Dec. „ Mrs Nisbet J. G, P. London.
(15) 17 Dec. ,,
Miss A. Johnson & J. G. P.
(16) 18 Dec. ,,
Miss Helen Verrall
(17) 19 Dec. „ 55 55 55 55 55
(18) 24 Dec. „ 55 55 55 55 55
(19) 31 Dec. „ Mrs Verrall
(20) 1 Jan. 1907 5 5 5 5 55 55
(21) 2 Jan. „ J. G. P. 55 55
(22) 7 Jan. „ Miss Helen Verrall
(23) 10 Jan. „ 55 55 55 55 55
(24) 14 Jan. „ Mrs Verrall
(25) 15 Jan. ,, 5 5 5 5 55 5 5
(26) 16 Jan. ,,
J. G. P.
(27) 21 Jan. „ Mrs Verrall
(28) 22 Jan. „ 5 5 5 5 55 55
(29) 23 Jan. „ J. G. P.
(30) 28 Jan. ,,
Oliver Lodge, Jr., & J. G. P.
(31) 29 Jan. ,,
Mrs Verrall
(32) 30 Jan. ,, 5 5 5 5 55 5 5
(33) 4 Feb. „ J. V. W. Macalister
(34) 5 Feb. ,, 5 5 5 5 55 55
(35) 6 Feb. ,, J. G. P.
(36) 11 Feb. „ J. Y. W. Macalister 55 55
28 J. G. Piddington. [part
Date. .Sitter.
Experi-
menter in
charge.
Place.
(37) 12 Feb. 1907 J. Y. W. Macalister J. G. P. London.
(38) 13 Feb. E. M. S. & J. G. P. 55
(39) 18 Feb. J. Y. W. Macalister 55 55
(40) 19 Feb. J. G. P. 55 55
(41) 20 Feb. E. M. S. & J. G. P. 55 55
(42) 25 Feb. H. G. Dakvns 55 55
(43) 26 Feb. 55 55
(44) 27 Feb. J. G. P. 55 55
(4.5) 4 March ,,
J. Russell 55 55
(46) 5 March „ E. M. S 55
(47) 6 March ,, J. G. P. J. G. P. 55
(48) 11 March „ J. Russell 55 55
(49) 12 March „ E. M. S. 55
(50) 13 March ,, J. G. P. J. G. P. 55
(51) 18 March „ Mrs J. Russell E. M. S. 15
(52) 19 March „ 51 55
(53) 20 March „ E. M. S. 51 55
(54) 2 April „ 55 55
(55) 3 April „ G. Mh Balfour 55 55
(56) 4 April ,, 5) >1 55 55
(57) 8 April ,,
E. M. S. 55 55
(58) 9 April ,,
Mrs “Forbes” 55 55
(59) 10 April ,, )) 15 55
(60) 15 April „ 55 5 5
(61) 16 April „ E. N. Bennett — 51
(62) 17 April „ E. M. S. E. M. S. 55
(63) 22 April „ E. N. Bennett — 55
(64) 23 April „ Mrs “ Forbes ”
E. M. S. 55
(65) 24 April „ E. M. S. 15 55
(66) 29 April „ Mrs Verrall & Miss A. Miss A. 55
Johnson Johnson
(67) 30 April „ 51 55
(68) 1 May ,,
E. M. S. & Miss A. Johnson E. M. S. 55
(69) 6 May „ 11 n 55 55
(70) 7 May 15 11 55 55
(71) 8 May „ 5 5 5 1 51 55
(72) 19 May „ 0. J. L. & Lady Lodge 0. J. L. Edgbaston
(73) 27 May „ 55 11 55 55
(74) 2 June ,, 51 55 55 55
lvil] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 29
EXPLANATION OF ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS
(a) Used in Mrs Piper’s Trance-Script.
U.D. =Rny part of the verb “to understand”; and also the noun
“ understanding”.
U.Dg. =the noun “understanding”.
U.Dly., or U.Dgly. = “ understandingly”.
R. = Rector. '1
P. =Prudens. -Controls of Mrs Piper’s.
I. S. D. =Imperator Servus Dei. j
+ = Cross, the signature and symbol of Imperator.
Dr. = Doctor, the name of one of Mrs Piper’s controls; or the word
“ doctor”.
The Friend = The Sitter.
Light =a medium; and also some kind of luminosity by which a medium
is surrounded, and by means of which the spirits profess to
effect their communications.
Machine or Machinery =the pencil used by Mrs Piper during trance.
First after coming (Sabbath) = Monday next.
Second ,, ,, ,, = Tuesday ,,
Third ,, ,, ,, =Wednesday ,,
(6) Used in this PvEport.
O. J. L. =Sir Oliver J. Lodge.
E. M. S. =Mrs Sidgwick.
J. G. P. =Mr Piddington.
Scribe =the personality which purports to be the author or inspirer of a
piece of automatic script.
Waking-stage = the process of coming out of trance during which Mrs Piper
speaks but does not write. Called by Dr. Hodgson “the
Subliminal”.
Myers p
Myers V
Myers H
Hodgson p
Hodgson T
The personality that calls itself “Myers” in Mrs Piper’s trance.
,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Mrs Verrall’s script.
,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Mrs Holland’s script.
,, ,, ,, ,, ,, “Hodgson” in Mrs Piper’s trance.
,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,, Mrs Verrall’s script.
30 J. G. Piddington. [part
“ Aid fallax ” ait “ est sollertia nobis,
Aid fia sunt nullumquc nefas oracula suadent.”
The rcmenaunt of the tale, if ye vjil here.
Rede in Ovid.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 31
I.
“ST. PAUL.”
Extract from record of sitting ivith Mrs Pifcr held on Nov.
15, 1906.
(Present: 0. J. L. and Lady Lodge.)
(Hodgson communicating.) I am Hodgson.
0. J. L. Glad to see you at last.
Hello Lodge. I am not dead as some might suppose. I am
very much alive.
0. J. L. Good, I expect so.
Speak to me.
0. J. L. Are you interested in the cross-correspondence 1 Could you
send something to other communicators 1
I am very, and think it the very best thing.
0. J. L. Could you send one now to one of the mediums 1
I will go to Mrs Holland. [Dr Hodgson never knew any-
thing about Mrs Holland ;
but J. G. P. in the spring
of 1906 had mentioned her name to Hodgsonp more
than once at sittings in Boston.]
0. J. L. What will you send ?
St. Paul.
0. J. L. That is a good idea.
St. Paul. I will give it to her at once.
(After an interval.)
32 J. G. Piddington. [part
O. J. L. Do j’ou remember what you were going to say to Mrs.
Holland 1
St. Paul.
O. J. L. Yes, quite right.
I will go at once.
“ St. Paul ” did not appear in Mrs Holland’s script. There
are, however, in the script of Miss Verrall two passages worth
considering in this connection.
^
The two passages in question occur in Miss Verrall’s script
of Jan. 12 and Feb. 26, 1907. The script of Jan. 12 opens
with a sentence in Latin, and then totally unconnected with it
follow these words :
—
the name is not right robbing Peter to pay —Paul 1
sanctus nomine quod efficit nil continens petatur sub-
veniet.
The script of Feb. 26 reads as follows:
—
A tangle of flowers with green grass between wall flowers
pansies why such hurry did you know that the second
wa}^ was shorter you have not understood about Paul
ask Lodge, quibus eruditis advocatis rem explicabis non
nisi ad unam normam refers hoc satis alia vana
a tower of ancient masonry with battlements
(
a scrawl, perhaps \
representing a signature 1 astolat.
“A.^T.” /
’ I consider myself Justified in looking for a correspondence in the script of
an automatist other than the one to whom the message was directed, because
the trance-personalities were more than once and in the most formal and
definite terms asked to try to give tliese corresponding messages to all or any
of the automatists concerned in these experiments, even though only one was
specifically named when the experiment was arranged. To a critical mind the
reflection will at once occur that the chances of success were hereby increased.
I agree ;
but I will content myself with saying that if any serious critic will
carefully study all the evidence presented in this report I shall not be afraid
of his seeking to set down the successful cases of correspondence to chance in
spite of the way in which the chances of success to the extent here stated
were widened.
LYii.] A Series of Concordant Automudisnis. 33
The last sentence and tlie opening phrases down to “shorter”
seem to me clearly not to belong to the middle passages, the
subject of which is dismissed with the words “ this is enough
;
more is useless
The Latin words in the script of Jan. 12 I interpret
thus :
—“ Holy in name (i.e. with the title of saint) what she
(or, he) is doing is of no use (i.e. by itself). Let the point
(continens) be looked for; it will help”.
The Latin words of Feb. 26 I translate;
—“By calling to
your aid what learned men will you explain the matter ?
^
(You will not explain it) unless you refer it to one standard.
This is enough ;
more is useless”.
The only reference to Sir Oliver Lodge in Miss Verrall’s
script during the period under review is the one quoted above.
The names Peter and Paul do not occur elsewhere in Miss
Verrall’s script during the same period. It is natural, therefore,
to put together the two scripts containing the name Paul.
If we take these two passages to refer to the experiment
arranged on Xov. 15, it will be seen that the name Paul is
given ;
and that “ Lodge ” is correctly indicated as the person
to explain about the name Paul. Miss Verrall never did
apply to Sir Oliver Lodge as directed ;
and it was not
until September 1907 that the interpretation given above
struck me.
I have said that “St. Paul” did not appear in Mrs.
Holland’s script, but her script of Dec. 31, 1906 suggests an
approach to the name of St. Paul, and also suggests an
explanation of the words in Miss Verrall’s script of Jan. 12,
“ the name is not right robbing Peter to pay—Paul”.
I transcribe the first half only of this script of Dec. 31,
1906: the second half having no connection with the first.
II Peter L, 15. [“Moreover I will endeavour that ye may
be able after my decease to have these things always in
remembrance.”] ^
^ Or, if “ quibiis ” is treated as a relative instead of as an interrogative,
the words would mean :
“ when yon have called these learned persons to your
aid”.
'Explanatory comments, translations, etc. are throughout enclosed, as here,
in square brackets.
C
34 J. G. Picldington. [part
“This witness is true”
—
It is now time that the shadow should be lifted from .your
spirit—“Let patience have her perfect work”
—
“ This is a faithful saying ”
—
This wit'iiess etc. is not, I believe, a textual quotation, but
is reminiscent of several passages in the writings of St. John.
Let patience etc. is a quotation from the Epistle of St. James.
This is CO faithful saying occurs at least three times in St.
Paul’s Epistles.
The only name actually written is Peter, and this Peter is
clearly Paint Peter. If we suppose that the scribe was aiming
at getting “ St. Paul ” expressed, it looks as if he felt his way
towards the name or notion of St. Paul by quoting first from
St. Peter, next from St. John, then from St. Janies and finally
from St. Paul. I do not mean that I think the process was
thus deliberately involved, but that the scribe (whoever or
whatever that may be) did the best he could. A long way
round may perhaps be the only way there. I further suggest
that the scribe having got so far could not proceed to get the
name “ St. Paul ” written, and so had to content himself with a
quotation from his writings.
Now, read in the light of this interpretation, the words in
Miss Verrall’s script of Jan. 12, “the name is not right
robbing Peter to pay—Paul”, are suggestive.
The words nisi ad tmarn normetm refers in Miss A^errall’s
sci'ipt of Feb. 26 may, perhaps, have been intended to mean
that unless there was one person in touch with all the auto-
matists concerned in these experiments the point would be
missed in many instances; or in other words, that a central
exchange was necessary. In this case I was, so to speak, at
the central office, but though I was receiving IMiss A^errall’s
script, and though Sir Oliver Lodge sent me a copy of his
record of the sitting of Nov. 15, I was not receiving a copy
of Mrs Holland’s script ;
and until I did receive a copy of
it the significance of Miss Verrall’s scripts of Jan. 12 and
Feb. 2 6 naturally escaped me. If then the words nisi acl
7inum iiormam refers can bear such an interpretation as I
have sought to place on them, they were neither otiose nor
mere padding.
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. ’^o
Most readers who have had the patience to follow rne so
far will, I fear, at this point form the opinion that all this
may be more or less ingenious rubbish, but that it is certainly
rubbish. Had our experiments produced no coincidences less
problematical than this one, I should heartily agree ;
but there
have been correspondences of the most definite character, and
not only that, but in the production of them there is evidence
both of intelligent direction and of ingenuity. I care not to
whom that intelligence be attributed ;
but that intelligence
and acute intelligence lie behind the phenomena I stoutly
maintain. And if this be once admitted, no excuse need be
offered for trying to place upon them interpretations which
otherwise would be over-subtle.
II.
“FEANCIS AND IGNATIUS”.
On Jan. 2, 1907 at 12.30 p.m. Calcutta time (i.e. 6.30
a.m. Greenwich time) Mrs Holland wrote a script containing
the names Francis and Ignatius ;
and neither of these names
occurs again in her script during the period under review.
Some five or six hours later, at the sitting held with Mrs
Piper on Jan. 2, I asked Imperator if he objected to my
asking MyerSp if he remembered what was Imperator’s real
name as given through Stainton Moses ;
and Imperator replied
that he had no objection. I then asked Pmctor to tell me
his real name, and after a few minutes Eector said his name
was Francis. The question about Imperator’s name was put
to MyerSp on April 8, and MyerSp replied that he could not
remember the name of Imperator as given through Stainton
Moses, but thought it was something like St. Ignatius ;
and
he then spontaneously asked whether the name of one of
Mrs Piper’s controls was not Francis.
36 J. G. Pidclington. [part
I am disposed to regard these coincidences as accidental.
But whether they be so or not, at any rate before pro-
nouncing a definite opinion it is necessary to discover whether
the names Ignatius and Francis had previously been assigned
to Imperator and Eector respectively in Mrs Piper’s trance-
communications. To discover this involves an examination of
all the many unpublished records of Mrs Piper’s sittings ;
and
as this examination will not be completed for a long time, I
defer for the present discussing in detail this possible instance
of cross-correspondence.
III.
“TPJANGLE WITHIN A CIECLE.”
Ext7’cict from record of sitting vntli Mrs PiiKr held on Jem. 16,
1907 .
(Present : J. G. P. alone.)
(Myers communicating.)
J. G. P. Myers.
Yes my friend.
J. G. P. Myers, when you send a message to, say, Mrs Verrall, and
then a similar message to Mrs Holland, could you not
mark each with some simple but distinctive sign 1
I am not cpiite sure that I U.D. you do you mean when I
give a message to make a sign after or before the written
message ?
J. G. P. Yes; if you wrote, for instance, “sunshine” through Mrs
Verrall and then afterwards through Mrs Holland, you
might put, say, a triangle within a circle, or some simple
sign like that, to show that there is another message to
be looked for corresponding with the message so marked.
lvil] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 37
I think I U.D. you wish me to make a sign when giving
a word at Mrs Verralls also at Mrs Hollamls’
J. G. P. Yes.
the same sign
J. G. P. Yes.
I can yes I shall be veiy glad to tiy this.
J. G. P. Yes, thank you.
It would be evidential.
J. G. P. It certainly would lie.
A circle with a triangle inside it appeared in Mrs Verrall’s
script of Jan. 28 at the foot of a remarkable conununication
embodying a successful cross-correspondence, which will be
dealt with in detail in Section VI. Mrs Holland’s script does
not contain any drawing of a circle with a triangle inside
it ;
though on May 8 she has these drawings of geometrical
figures.
O
Mrs Verrall’s drawing is, however, quite unmistakable ;
and
it was attached, as requested, to a script which contained a
cross-correspondence. The cross-correspondence was between
Mrs Verrall, Miss Verrall and YIrs Piper. That Mrs Holland
was not concerned in it in no degree detracts from the success,
for when suggesting the experiment to Myersp I mentioned
Mrs Holland (and for that matter Mrs Verrall also) only by
way of exemplification. This was the only experiment chosen
by the experimenters which certainly succeeded. It may be
that it succeeded because, unpromising though such a subject
may seem, the circle and triangle may have had a significance
.38 J. G. Piddington. [PAKT
of a poetical nature which appealed to the emotions of
the Myers personality ;
and the circle certainly fitted in
most happily and appropriately with the communication to
which it was appended. In later sittings MyerSp indicated
with sufficient clearness, if not as explicitly as could have
been wished, the particular piece of Mrs Verrall’s script which
had been marked with the triangle and circle. These points
will be further explained and discussed under Section VI.
IV.
“ STEEPLE.”
On Jan. 16, 1907 while I was haviiio’ a sitting with Mrs
Piper in the Irish Literary room at Hanover Square, Miss
Johnson was having a synchronous sitting with Mrs Thompson
in the larger of the S.P.K. rooms. I was told when Mrs
Thompson had gone into trance, and we then began to try to
get messages transferred from one medium to the other. The
controls of either medimr. were also asked to report what was
passing at the other sitting. No success attended these experi-
ments. In the Piper sitting the communications went on in
the ordinary way
;
the controls, who had been commissioned
to give messages to Mrs Thompson’s control “ Nelly ” and to
describe what was passing at her seance, breaking in from
time to time to report progress. Thus, immediately after the
arrangement had been made with MyerSp about the triangle
and circle experiment related in the last section, the following
was written :
—
Extract from record of sitting ivith Mrs. Piper held on Jan.
16, 1907.
(Present: J. Cl. P. alone.)
(Prudens communicating.)
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 39
ask Mrs Thompson if
Miss Johnson I mean if the word steeple came out theie
[i.e. at Mrs Thompson’s.]
•J. G. P. “ sceptic,” is it ?
S teeple.
S
•J. G. P. “ Steeple ” 1
(hland gives emphatic assent as J. G. P. says “steeple”.)
Prudens.
J. G. P. Excellent, Prudens. Why did you ask this 1
Because I thought I recognised it.
J. G. P. Thank you.
I shall be glad to know if the word Mourn or Mown came
out. [This referred to an experiment made some days
previously.]
•J. G. P. “Mourn or Mown.” No, Prudens, there was no trace of it.
“ mourn ”
•J. G. P. “mourn.” No; nor of that either,
thank you I thought it might.
But as I said before I am not so good at receiving.
J. G. P. as at transmitting?
(Hand assents.)
.T. G. P. Will you wait a moment ?
yes two if you like.
J. G. P. Yes. Can I speak to Myers while you, Prudens, listen ?
Very good wait and I will speak to him.
he gave the name Moses to Nellie.
40 J. G. Piddington. [part
J. G. P. “Moses”'?
(Hand assents.)
(M3’ers communicating.)
Myers. (Agitation in hand.) I lieard.
J. G. P. I want you to hear what Prudens has just WTitten. He
wrote: “Ask Miss Johnson if the Avord steeple came
out ” at IMrs Thompson’s. Does that suggest anything
to you ?
Oh yes that is wl)v I have tried it again there.
It was m}^ suggestion entirely. . . .
1 gave this before, as I heard it repeated I must ask Mrs
Verrall about it. ... did she not U.D. it.
J. G. P. You want me to answer that ?
Yes I do.
J. G. P. I’m not quite certain; but it’s just because I’m not quite
certain that I think this rvill be such a splendid test.
Yes I U.D. as I have very persistently^ heard it and so
persistently tried to give it here also there at Mrs T’s.
J. G. P. \Yhen you say you have heard it, where did you hear if?
I thought you gave it at Mrs Yerralls.
J. G. P. (In a tone of surprise) “I thought you gave it at Mrs
Yerrall’s”! Is that right?
I did not mean you I mean to say I got it there and at
IMrs Thompson’s also.
J. G. P. Yes; I understand.
I heard it quite clearly. but you seemed so perplexed.
AYhen I spoke it here. I wondered if my heailng was
good.
J. G. P. No, Myers. The wuiting wmsn’t clear, and I was perhaps a
little slow.
Oh. w'ell it is U.D. isnt it ?
J. G. P. Yes; quite understood.
LVII.] A Series of Goncorcla/nt Automatisms. 41
I now give copies of various notes and letters which relate
to this incident :
—
Note by J. G. P. made on January 16, 1907, at 3.40 p.m.
With reference to an incident that occurred in a sitting with Mrs.
Piper held on this day.
Some days ago—
a
week, more or less—I thought 1
received a letter from Miss Johnson in which she said that she
had discovered a cross-corres}3ondence between the scrijrt of Mrs.
Verrall and that of Mrs. Holland : the coincidence consisting in the
production of the word “ stee^Je ” by both. She added (so I
thought) that she thought it rather clever of her to have made out
the coincidence, as in Mrs. Verrall’s script the reference to the
steeple was in Latin.
One or two days after 1 thought I had received this letter I was
going through the scripts of klrs and Miss Verrall which had been
sent to me since the end of November 1906 ;
and in one of Miss
VerralFs writings I came across a drawing of two birds looking at
a thing like this v V.
Underneath the drawing the word “doves” was written; and
some phrase like “she saw it over the church”. I made a note,
—
or so I believe—(I will verify after completing this note) pointing-
out that this might be a vague reference to the “steeple” men-
tioned—as I thought—both in Mrs. Yerrall’s and Mrs. Holland’s
scripts. When making this memorandum I looked for the letter in
wliich I thought Miss Johnson had informed me of the coincidence.
'When I failed to find it a doubt momentarily possessed me whether
I had ever really had such a letter from Miss Johnson ;
but I
dismissed this doubt as absurd.
Yesterday, Jan. 15, 1907, I was lunching with Mrs. Verrall after
a Piper sitting. I believe I then told Mrs. Verrall that kliss
Johnson had discovered another coincidence between her script and
Mrs. Holland’s, and I believe that I told her that “steeple” was
the common idea or word.
This morning the Myers control, or Prudeus, asked me whether
the word “ steeple ” had been written by Mrs. Verrall, and, I think,
added that he had tried to give it to Mrs. Thompson also. (My
recollections of what exactly was written b}^ the Myers control or
Prudens are somewhat hazy; but I am purposely making this note
42 J. G. Piddington. [part
before writing out or reading through the record of this morning’s
sitting.)
When “
steeple ” was mentioned in the Piper trance I became
quite enthusiastic and exclaimed “Excellent”; as I thought that the
word had now been produced by a third automatist. The control
asked me if Mrs. Verrall had got the word “steeple.” I replied
that I was not absolutely certain, but believed she had. The reserve
manifested in this reply was almost entirely, if not altogether, due
to my natural caution. Not having myself seen the evidence for the
coincidence I did not like unreservedly to vouch for the occurrence
of the word “steeple” in Mrs. Verrall’s script. Possibly—though
only possibly —the doubt may have recurred to me—though certainly
I did not formulate it, if it did—whether I had in reality learnt
from a letter written by Miss Johnson of the occurrence of “steeple”
in Mrs. Verrall’s and Mrs. Holland’s scripts.
After the Piper sitting was over I went into Miss Johnson’s
room, where she had been having a sitting with Mrs. Thompson.
Before examining Miss Johnson’s notes of her sitting in order to
see whether there were any coincidences between the trance-utterances
of Mrs. Thompson and the script of Mrs. Piper, I said to Miss
Johnson :
“ Well, anyhow, there was one good thing this morning,
for the controls said they had given the word “ steeple ” to Mrs.
Verrall. You remember you wrote and told me that you had
discovered that both Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Holland had been writing
about a steeple”. Miss Johnson denied all recollection of having
written any such letter, and denied the existence of an}^ such coin-
cidence. I then dictated to Miss Johnson a short note giving the
essential parts of this note.
I am not a vivid dreamer and I rarely remember my dreams
;
but when I do dream, my dream not infrequently takes the form of
receiving letters, and in my dream the handwriting of my dream-
correspondent is just like that of the living person from whom I
imagine I am hearing. I think I have once or twice before mis-
taken dream experiences for waking experiences.
I have some kind of vague suspicion that I may perhaps have
given “steeple” as a cross-correspondence message for the Piper
controls to convey to Mrs. Verrall ;
but this can be verified by
reference to the records. [“Steeple” was not chosen as a cross-
correspondence message at any time.]
I have now looked up the note relating to Miss Verrall’s script
and find that my recollection recorded above is correct.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 43
The note runs as follows ;
—
“ Notes re C.Cs and V. scripts.
H. V. Nov. 20, 1906.
drawino; of two birds ‘
regardant ’
doves ”.
O O
“ She has seen it above the church ”.
? Is this a reference to (1) “the white dove” (Holland &: Piper)
(2) “steeple” (Mrs. V. and Holland.)
On Jan. 16, after having completed the foregoing note,
I wrote to Mrs Verrall as follows.
—
“ Did I tell you yesterday at lunch (or perhaps the
day before) that Miss Johnson had discovered another C.C. [i.e. cross-
correspondence] between you and ]Mrs Holland and did I tell you
what the common word or idea was 1 It may help you to remember if
I add that to the best of my belief I told you that I fancied I had
found in your daughter’s script a possible, though vague, reference
to the same word or idea. Please think this over carefully, for if
my memory isn’t playing me tricks, and if your memory corroborates
mine, the controls will have brought off rather a pretty thing
(Written on the back of the envelope) “ Did you tell H. V. [i.e. Miss
Helen Verrall] when you returned home about my thinking that her
script had a reference to a C.C. obtained by you and Mrs H?”
To this Mrs Verrall replied on Jan. 17 ;
—
On Monday Jan. 14 at lunch you described to me a pair of
regardant doves in H’s script and asked if I had had anything
similar. You then said something about Mrs. Holland and myself
having had something about a church steeple, which was and is
quite unintelligible to me. You said that Miss Johnson had told
you this or you had dreamt it. I certainly never mentioned the
episode to Helen ;
the first she knew of it was when I read aloud
the pencil note outside your letter. (Helen corroborates)
Note by J. C. P. re above, dated Jan. 18, 1907.
“ Fow said that Miss Johnson had told you or you had dreamt it.’’
I think I first said that Miss J. had told me ;
and only added that
perhaps I had dreamt it when Mrs. Verrall looked perplexed at
my I'eference to a steeple, and then probably I was speaking more
in joke than otherwise. At the sitting on Jan. 16 when the control
44 J. G. Piddimjion. [part
asked me if Mrs. Verrall had received the word steejsle, or rather
when I understood it to ask that, and when I answered that I
thought she had received it, I had entirely forgotten the ignorance
displayed and confessed by Mrs. Verrall on Jan. 14 of all knowledge
of the occurrence of the word in her script.
Some days or perhaps a week or two later, to tease Mrs
Piper, I told her in fun that she needn’t think mediumistic
gifts so exceptional, as I myself, for instance, was a medium
too. I was, of course, thinking of the “ Steeple ” incident, but
I did not say anything about it, my object being to mystify
her. And I do not see how my remark could have given any
clue to what came out subsequently in the trance ;
and the
surprise I manifested, when, on Jan. 16, Myersp said he thought
I had given “ Steeple ” to Mrs A^errall, ought to have thrown
her trance-consciousness off the scent. I will now relate the
sequel.
On Feb. 19, 1907, the following words were spoken during
the waking-stage, and were certainly addi’essed to me, as I alone
was present :
—
George Pelham [who is represented throughout as co-operating
with Hodgsoiip and MyerSp] is in there, shaking both hands at
me and muttering a kind of language ;
and they say that they tell you
things in your dreams some day some time.
Extract from record of sitting until Mrs Piper held on
March 13, 1907.
(Myers communicating) I gave her [i.e. Mrs Verrall] the
word Church as did Hodgson also.
J G. P. Yes.
but more than once I found you and although you did not
reply in words to my message I repeatedly said, and in
fact shouted out to you in what you would call, an
undignified manner for a gentleman. Steeple.
J. G. P. That’s good ;
very good.
you did not reply but your spirit seemed to grasp the
idea, and that pleased me greatly as it seemed the nearest
approach to making j
ou U.D. clearly that I ever (hesita-
tion) gave, [or, “gone.”]
lvil] a Series of Goncordavt Automatisms. 45
J. G. P. Is it “ gave ” ?
did.
J. G. P. Yes, I understand.
The mention here in close proximity of “ Church ” and
“ Steeple ” is interesting in two ways. First, because I had
noted a connection between the phrase in Miss Verrall’s script
of ISTov. 20, 1906, “she has seen it above the church,” and the
“ Steeple ” cross-correspondence which I had imagined had
occurred in the scripts of Mrs Holland and Mrs Verrall
;
and, secondly, because as long ago as Nov. 16—six weeks
at least before my dream—the following had passed at one of
Sir Oliver Lodge’s sittings with Mrs Piper :
—
(Communicator not indicated; perhaps Myers or Rector; probably
not Hodgson.)
St. Paul has been given.
Ask Piddington if he said anytliing about a church at Mrs
Holland’s. Ask him if he srave a message to be recorded
O O
here about a church—if he said church to Mrs Holland.
0. J. L. All right, I will.
The matter was recalled at a sitting held on Dec. 3, 1906 :
—
(Hodgson communicating) Did you ask Piddington about the
Church'? He said something to me through Mrs Holland
about the Church.
0. J. L. Very well, that is a C.C. [i.e. cross-correspondence] message.
Yes, have you heard about the others yet?
0. J. L. No, but they will all be recorded and collated in due time.
Had Sir Oliver Lodge communicated to me either of these
passages, the genesis of my dream might have been traced to
them ;
but as a matter of fact he did not do so, as I find on
reference to his letters. He acquainted me with most of the
other cross-correspondence experiments in his sittings, but,
curiously enough, he omitted to mention this one. Nor did I
see the type-written records of the sittings of Nov. 16 and
Dec. 3 until after “ Steeple ” had been mentioned in the Piper
sitting of Jan. 16, although I did see a few of the other records
of the Edgbaston sittings before this date. It is a pity that
46 J. 0. Picldington. [part
Myersp hedged when my tone of surprise showed that I did
not understand his original and significant, if not entirely
explicit, statement: “I thought you gave it at Mrs A^errall’s ”
;
but tliat is an unfortunate habit of trance-personalities. Still,
he seemed to retract his retractation by adding spontaneously :
“ T heard it quite clearly ;
but you seemed so perplexed when
I spoke it here I wondered if my hearing was good Anyhow,
whether he hedged or not, Myersp comes out of it, so far as
memory is concerned, much better than I do ;
for on Jan. 16 1
had forgotten what Mrs. Verrall had told me on Jan. 14:
namely, that she was unaware of the appearance of “ Steeple
”
in her script.
As regards the references made in the sittings of Nov. 16 and
Dec. 3, 1906, to Mrs. Holland, myself and a church, it deserves
noting that Mrs Holland’s script of Dec. 4, 1906, opens with
the words :
“ The grey church tower.”
They occupy a line to themselves, and seem to be quite dis-
connected from the rest of the script. This is the only time
during the period under review that the word “ Church ” occurs
in Mrs Holland’s script.
V.
“LIDlfATY, MY OWN NAME, AND MRS SIDGWICK’S.”
\_Tlds Section should he read in connection with the paper bt/ Mrs Sidgwick
on pp. 417 - 440.]
It will, I think, conduce to clearness if I begin in this case
with Mrs Verrall’s script.
Fart of 3Irs Verrall’s script of Fch. 4, 1907, begun at 10.50 n.m.
Have you nothing to .sa\' to me
give the message I gave
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 47
but was it understood 1
On the Council I asked and she said Yes. Tell Mrs Sidg-
wick that. and something about the Gurney library
Avhich I think she will remember or a Gurney memorial,
A\diich she was to take over. I will give the message
elsewhere too today but this is easier than the other
place.
The signature might help
H. Sidgwick.
^Ye have tried for that today, wait for their answer F W H M
I must quote another script of IMrs. Verrall’s, although it is
largely concerned with another cross-correspondence, as it would
be impossible to disentangle the two different subjects with
which it is concerned, and, besides, they are evidently meant
not to be dissociated.
Mrs VerrcdVs script of Feb. 6, 1907, begun at 11.7 a.m.
Laura and another
There is some great obstruction this morning
help to remove it.
This must not occur again tell him that.
Put not your light under a bushel
The great Library has already gone before
Hugh Le Despenser
the branch that should have grown full straight
Apollo’s laurel bough
You don’t get it right but some of this is true
blue ribband and five pointed star
I think it is a jewelled dagger
three curved objects and a point
I cant see what all this means but I am
48 J. G. Piddington. [part
told to say it to you
APOLLOS LAUREL BOUC4H
There is also some point in the Library
Put together the Librarj' and the bough
Laureatus a laurel wreath
perhaps no more than that
Corona laureata has some meaning here
With laureate wreath his brow serene was crowned.
No more today—await the better news
that brings assurance with a laurel crown.
It will be noticed that Mrs Verrall’s script of Feb. 4 was
signed “ F.W.PI.M.”, and her script of Feb. 6, though not signed
with these initials and not purporting apparently to come from
Myers, is clearly, though only incidentally, connected with the
previous script. The form of the script of Feb. 6 gives it the
appearairce of emanating from a collaborator of the author of
the script of Feb. 4, and from a collaborator acquainted with
the general intentions of the author of the script of Feb. 4,
though not with the particular significance of the message which
he had been commissioned to convey.
I proceed now to cjuote extracts from Mrs Piper’s sittings.
Extract from record, of sitting ivitli Mrs Pi'per held on Feb.
5, 1907.
(Present during this part of the sitting: J. G. P. and Miss
Newton, the latter attending simply in order to await a
signal from J. G. P. to summon the sitter, Mr
Macalister.)
(Rector communicating)
+ HAIL.
J. Ct. P. Hail, Imperator and Rector.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Atdomatisms. 49
Once more we greet you friend of earth peace be unto you
+ (R.)
J. G. P. Thank you. Have you anything to say before I bring the
friend in ?
iMyers is waiting to speak with you and will do so on day
after this U.D.
J. G. P. I shall be glad to hear what Myers has to say, and after he
has given his message I have something to say to him.
Very good, then we will bring him here on day after this.
J. G. P. I thought you meant he was waiting to speak now.
He came with me just now, hoping we could arrange for
him to speak with you if there is an opportunity he will
speak otherwise day after this. . . .
J. G. P. If what he has to say is not long, let him speak now. If
it is long, let him wait till next time, when he can
occupy all the time, if he wishes.
I will, arrange to postpone it until next time. but he
thought you might have some message for him from Mrs
V. as he is going to give her one.
J. G. P. Yes.
today.
-J. G. P. Has he given any message to Mrs Veri’all since he last spoke
herel [i.e. since Jan. 30] And if so, can he say what
it is ?
he first wished to explain that his message here was
(repeating a pass-word previously given)
J. G. P. Thank you. I note that.
day after he will have more to say. mean while, say to
your friend of last time [i.e. Mr Macalister] kindly that
the object presented was of little use to us.
J. G. P. Yes.
D
50 J. G. Pidclington. [part
We will meet him any time now.
(Myers communicating)
Rose garden,
Roses blossoming
Blossoming everywhere.
U.D.
good bye.
J. G. P. Is that Myers 1
Yes.
J. G. P. I want to say something to you. You remember when I put
you a question in which the words “ seances ” and “ Leck-
hampton
”
occurred you did not at first understand them.
I did not hear them very well.
J. G. P. Well, I think it possible that in the same way you did not
catch a word in the question put to jmu by Mrs Verrall
on behalf of Mrs Sidgwick.
M^hat was it ? I may be better able to U.D. more than at
that time.
J. G. P. The word I think you may not have caught was “Terling."
(repeating the word distinctly once or twice) Terling is
the home of Lord Rayleigh.
Oh yes I jjositively have never heard i.e. to grasp the
word before.
you are right in this. I U.D. more and will go over that
interview and if you refer to this I will an [obviously
the beginning of “ answer ”] give my answer tomorrow.
J. G. P. All right. Thanks. Now I must say good-bye.
There are two points in the earlier part of this extract to
which I wish to draw attention : the evident anxiety of MyerSp
to make some communication at this sitting, and his evident
expectation that I should have a message for him from Mrs
Verrall. Both feelings were natural and dramatically fitting, if
we assume that MyerSp was aware (and as the event showed
he almost certainly was) of the message written by MyerSy on
Feb. 4 through Mrs Verrall.
LVil.] A Series of Concordant Avdomatisms. 51
As regards the latter part of the extract I must explain that
at a sitting with Mrs Piper held on Jan. 21 Mrs Verrall had,
on behalf of Mrs Sidgwick, asked Myersp whether he remem-
bered the subject of a certain conversation between her and
Frederic Myers which occurred at Terling a few days before
Mr Sidgwick’s death. The whole of this episode is fully dealt
with by Mrs Sidgwick in a paper which will be found further
on at p. 417; and I need only say here that, though answers
had been attempted, the correct answer had not yet been given.
Extract from record of sitting vjitli Airs Pigoer held on Feb.
6, 1907.
(Present : Mr M‘Dougall and J. G-. P. ;
the former as aii
onlooker only.)
(Myers communicating) Good morning my friend. I am
delighted to see you again. I hope all is going well on
your side.
J. G. P. Good morning, Myers. I’m very glad to see you. I believe
everything is going on very well.
I remery [in error for “remember”] the name of the place
to which you referred last time, and I would say with
regard to it that I remember vaguely making a suggestion
to Mrs Sidgwick regarding a certain document which I
thought she would find necessary to be attend to
J. G. P. Is that “
be attended to ?
look into in case our good friend [i.e. Henry Sidgwick] came
over . . here.
Besides I referred to matter pertaining to the college.
if I remember rightly also a library matter.
J. G. P. I want to read over. Is “ pertaining ” right ?
Yes.
J. G. P. Is “ library ” right 1
Yes.
which she will I'ecall quickly.
J. G. P. Yes; I will tell her [i.e. Mrs Sidgwick],
52 [part
J. G. Fiddington.
I feel sure of the distinction of places,
i.e. my talk with her at T. and at my own house. U.D.
i.e. between my
(J. G. P. reads over as above.)
yes. (assent to reading) say anything before I reply to
another enquiry ?
•J. G. P. No, Myers, I have nothing more to ask.
I had read Mr.s YerraH’s script of Feb. 4 (cited above) on
the morning of Feb. 5 ;
but even as early as Feb. 6 it must
have completely passed out of my mind (as it certainly had by
Feb. 11), or 1 could hardly have failed at the .sitting of Feb. 6
to have tried to extract further information from Myersp after
his mention of a Library.
Extract from record of sitting tvith Mrs Piper held on Feb.
11, 1907.
(Present: J. G. P. alone at this point.)
.J, G. P. (to Rector.) I want to ask Myers a question before the
friend comes in.
(Rector communicating.)
Yes I will speak with him now and attract him to you.
(Healer’s influence given. Hand speirs.)
(Myers communicating.)
Good morning, my friend, did you ask for me 1
J. G. P. Yes, Myers. Good morning. I want to ask you some-
thing.
I am pleased to see you again.
.J. G. P. You will remember that at our last meeting you said that
one of the subjects of the conversation between you and
Mrs Sidgwick was connected with a Library.
Yes as I recall.
.J. G. P. AVell, the day after our last meeting here [This was a
mistake; I should have said “the same day as”.] Mrs
Verrall wrote a message and in it there was a reference
to a Libraiy.
(The hand moves downwards as if to write.)
53
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
J. G. P. (who was about to go on speaking about the Libraiy, but on
seeing the movement of the hand desisted) No, I won’t
go on. Please say what you were going to.
No better go on.
J.G.P. ' There was no obvious connection between what Mrs Verrall
wrote and what you said except for the bare mention of
a Library. Still it seems possible to me that you tried
to repeat through Mrs Yerrall what you had already
said here.
this is quite true did I not tell you that I would go to Mrs
Verrall did I not refer to this at that meeting ?
yes (assent to reading as above)
J. G. P. Yes, 3'ou did. [On Feb. 5, not at the last sitting, Myersp
had said he was going to give a message to Mrs. Verrall
;
but he did not say what the message was to be about.]
But the reference to a Library in Mrs Verrall’s writing
is not suthciently definite and distinctive to make it clear
that the coincidence is not accidental.
No but I think I can make it so later.
J. G. P. Yes.
I think I can.
J. G. P. But I want you to tell me, if you can, how your message
came out.
yes I am aware of this but just how much she U.D. I am
not sure but what I do wish her to U.D. is that during
my conversation with Mrs S. [i.e. Mrs. Sidgwick] the
library was referred to as an important transaction, as
I feel sure that I recall it and I wish very much to
impress it upon Mrs V. so as to confirm my utterances
here.
J. G. P. Yes, I see.
54 J. G. Piddingtov. [part
I think she wrote or got the message, that (the hand hesitates
and make dots on the paper) he S. [i.e. Henry Sidgwick]
was glad or pleased about the library, what I said to
her was. write for Mrs Sidgwick that we talked about
library.
J. G. P. That is exactly what I wanted to get at. But as a matter
of fact there is no reference to Mrs Sidgwick in what
Mrs Verrall wrote; only a quite disconnected reference
to a library.
What a pity but if you leave this to me I will impress her
to write.
We talked about, etc.
J. G. P. I don’t understand.
I will impress upon her to write.
but quite fully
Write for Mrs S. etc.
etc. etc.
J. G. P. I see. I am sorry to have bothered you about this, (depre-
cative movement of the hand) but I thought it would be
helpful perhaps for you to know how your message came
out on this side, and helpful for us to learn the form in
which you intended to convey your message.
of course it is a great help because it helps us to U.D. the
importance of impressing more than one word at a time.
J. G. P. I haven’t got with me the exact words wliich Mrs Verrall
wrote ;
but there was something about Hugh Despenser
and Lord Spencer’s Library ;
and then a statement that
this is not quite right, but that the Library has meaning.
[Mrs Verrall’s script of Feb. 6 mentions “Hugh le
Despenser ” and a library, but does not, as was stated
here by J. G. P., explicitly refer to Lord Spencer, though
there may be perhaps an indirect allusion to him.]
that is very good as I persistently repeated the word [i.e.
library] to her also my own name and Mrs Sidgwick’s.
I will have another try at this hoping she will better U.D.
the whole sentence.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisras. 5o
J. 6. P. Yes, I see. Thank you vei’y much.
When she receives it let me know kindly.
I was struck with the way in which Myersp stuck to his
point ;
and this led me to look again, and this time carefully,
at the recent pieces of script sent me by Mrs A'errall ;
and I
then found to my astonishment that I had entirely forgotten
the contents of her script of Feb. T ;
and that consequently
what I had said at the sitting of Feb. 11 was wrong, and
what MyerSp had said was right.
Extract from record of sitting ivith Mrs Piper held on Feb. 12,
1907.
(Present J. G. P. and Miss Newton.)
J. G. P. Myers, I want to tell you that the message which you said
you gave to Mrs A^errall about Browning, Star and Hope
has come out quite clearly, [v. p. 60]
(Myers communicating)
thanks.
I never tried with greater patience than I did over those
words.
J. 6. P Good. I have another good piece of news for you.
you are most kind to tell me because it helps me in U.D.
the best methods of cooperation.
J. G. P. You remember that last time I told you that you had not
succeeded in transmitting to Mrs Verrall anything except
a disconnected reference to a Library. Y^ou said that in
the message you had given her you mentioned Mrs
Sidgwick’s name and your own and a library. I denied
this. But now I find that in another message to Mrs
Verrall, written three or four [really two] days before the
message I was thinking of in which there is a reference
to a Library and Hugh Le Despenser, you did write exactly
what you said here you had written. You did mention
Mrs Sidgwick’s name, you did mention a library, and
you did sign the message with your name.
I did certainly, and am very pleased to hear that she fully
registered the thoughts which I indubitably (1) gave her.
J. 0. Piddington.
56 [part
J. G. P. Before you go I want to ask you a question, which I hope you
can answer the next time.
Do not give me too many things to do at one time will you 1
J. G. P. No, I won’t ;
but this question will not bother you, I think.
In your message to Mrs Verrall you mentioned a parti-
cular library. Will you tell me next time, if you can,
what library it was ?
Yes I will. I will think it all over carefully.
At the next day’s sitting, Feb. 13, MyerSp asked Mrs Sidg-
wick, for the first time present at a sitting, “ did you understand
my reference to library ? ”. Mrs Sidgwick, in ignorance of my
having asked the day before for- the particular library to be
named, asked in reply “ To the Gurney library ? ”
;
and so this
point could not be tested. I should have omitted all reference
to this fnrstrated experiment had it not been that some days
later Hodgsoiip asked a question which just possibly displays
in a very allusive form one further item of knowledge of what
appeared in Mrs Verrall’s script.
Extract from record of sitting xoith Mrs Pi^er held on Feb. 19,
1907.
(Present J. G. P. alone)
(Hodgson communicating) do you know whether or not she
[i.e. Mrs Verrall] wrote the E.G. library or the Edmund
Gurney library.
J. G. P. (not seizing the point) Oh !
yes. She did write about that.
I told Myers all about it.
did it come out
E.G. or the name in full ?
J. G. P. I’m not sure, but I timik it came out as “Gurney” only, not
as “Edmund Gurney,” nor as “E.G.” At least so I
believe.
I think the initials have come out since.
Myers and I talk things over after.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Atttomatisms. 57
This is the last reference to this matter in the Piper script
which I need quote ;
for though there were later developments,
dealt with by Mrs Sidgwick (v. pp. 417-440), they do not
concern the question of cross-correspondence.
The coincidences may be briefly summarised as follows :
—
On Feb. 4 Mrs Yerrall wrote a script containing Mrs Sidg-
wick’s name, the word “ library ” and Frederic Myers’s initials ;
and at 11.7 a.m. on Feb. 6 began to write a script in which
the word “ library ” appeared three times ;
and on no other
occasion during the period under review did the word “ library
”
occur again in her script. On Feb. 6, between 11.32 and
11.37 a.m. (as near as I can calculate), MyerSp said he had
referred to “ a library matter ” through Mrs Verrall ;
and on
Feb. 1 1 that he had persistently repeated the word “ library
to Mrs Verrall, also his own name and Mrs Sidgwick’s ;
and,
to the best of iny recollection and belief, the word “ library
”
was not mentioned on any other occasion in Mrs Piper’s
trance during the whole period of the English sittings except
in connection with this episode.
It is unnecessary, I think, to emphasise further the coin-
cidences between what was written during Mrs Piper’s trances
of Feb. 6 and 11 and in Mrs Verrall’s scripts of Feb. 4
and 6, for even to a careless reader they must be apparent.
Kegarded as answers to Mrs Sidgwick’s question these concordant
messages are not correct, which is a puzzling circumstance if
we regard them as inspired by Frederic Myers. Yet it is very
difficult to regard them as identical guesses independently made
by Mrs Piper and Mrs Verrall.
Nothing that passed at the Piper sittings, and nothing that
Mrs Sidgwick had said or written to Mrs Verrall (v. Mrs
Sidgwick’s paper, pp. 417, 419 and 422) could, so it seems to
me, have possibly suggested that the conversation at Terling
was connected with the Gurney Library or any library ;
and
though neither Mrs A^errall nor Mrs Piper knew or had any
means of guessing the right answer to the question, it must
have been obvious to both of them, whether in a normal or
abnormal state, that the subject of the conversation at Terling
must have been one to which memories of an emotional kind
were attached. To Mrs Verrall her script of Feb. 4 seemed
so pointless that in sending it to me she informed me that
58 J. G. Fiddington. [part
she had not communicated it to Mrs Sidgwick (as she was
instructed to do by the scribe) because she could not see that
there was anytliing to “ tell
In Mrs Piper’s trance it is clearly indicated that “ library
”
is the subject of a cross-correspondence. Mrs Verrall’s script
of Feb. 4 in the phrases “ I will give the message elsewhere
too today” and “We have tried for that today. Wait for their
answer ” conveys the same meaning. Moreover, in her script
of Feb. G is the phrase :
“ There is some point in the
Library. Put together the Library and the bough”, “the
bough ” being “ Apollo’s bough ” and evidently standing for
the same thing as “ Laurel wreath ”. As will be seen later
(v. pp. 94-9), “Laurel wreath” is a perfectly certain cross-
correspondence ;
and the point of “ putting together
” “ Library
”
and “ Laurel wreath ” must lie in the fact of both being the
subject of cross-correspondences.
I would particularly draw attention to the straightforward
w’ay in which MyerSp on Feb. 11 maintained his account of
what he had written through Mrs Verrall in the face of my
denial that any such things had been written by her. There
was no hedging this time. (Of. p. 46.)
Mrs Verrall’s script of Feb. 6 contains what I take to be
an interesting illustration of the intrusion of her normal con-
sciousness upon her automatic consciousness. I conceive that
the scribe was trying to refer again to the Library mentioned
in the script of Feb. 4, and possibly trying to get the “ E.Gr.
Library” written. (The extract from the sitting of Feb. 19,
given above, should be read in this connection.) Mrs Verrall
had, however, recently learnt that Lord Spencer was resigning
the Chancellorship of Manchester University ;
and to this
piece of supraliminal knowledge is to be traced the intro-
duction of “ the Great Library has already gone before ”, an
obvious allusion to the Althorp Library (now at Manchester),
and of “ Hugh Le Despenser ”
;
and also of the “ K.G.”, tliough
perhaps the letters “ Iv.G.” may have been a mistranslation of
the scribe’s “ E.G.”
In conclusion, I think I ought to explain how it could be
that I forgot the contents of Mrs Verrall’s script of Feb. 4
so quickly and completely, for if these phenomena are due to
telepathic action between living persons it is evident that in
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Atdomatisms. 5i)
this case I was one person besides Mrs Verrall herself from
whom information about Mrs Verrall’s script could have been
extracted by Mrs Piper.
In the first place I made a point throughout these experi-
ments of not puzzling over Mrs and Miss Verrall’s scripts. I
read them through as they reached me, most often hurriedly
and carelessly, endorsed on them the day and hour at which
I received them, and then put them aside. In the second
place I was attending three sittings a week with Mrs Piper,
and writing out the full record of the three sittings. It was
essential to write these out as soon as possible after they
were held, and consecpiently I had little spare time. And
in the third place I was building a house, and that occupied
most of my spare time and energy, and in itself was quite
sufficient cause for driving other matters out of my head.
I have entered into this personal explanation, because I
want to make it plain that if Mrs and Miss Verrall and
Mrs Piper drew their knowledge of each others’ scripts from
my mind, at any rate it was not because my attention was
concentrated upon the automatic scripts of Mrs and Miss
Verrall.
VI.
“HOPE, STAE AND BROWNING.”
Immediately following the extract from the sitting of Feb. 11,
1907 quoted in the last section (pp. 52-55), came these words:
—
(Myers communicating) Did she [i.e. Mrs Verrall] receive the
word.
Evangelical.
J. G. P. “ Evangelical ” ?
yes.
60 [part
J. G. Pidclington.
J. G. P. I don’t know, but I will enquire.
I referred also to Browning again. [I had chosen on Dec. 18,
1906 some words from Browning’s Flight of the Duchess
for transmission to Mrs Verrall by Myersp, and he had
claimed, though wrongly, to have succeeded in getting
them written. It is to this that I think “ again ” refers.
./. G. P.]
J. G. P. Do you remember what your exact reference to Browning wasi
I referred to Hope and Browning,
yes. (assent to reading as above.)
I also said Star.
(Miss Newton enters to announce the arrival of the sitter,
Mr Macalister.)
J. G. P. Now, IMyers, I must say goodbye, as the friend is here.
Do I U.D. that I am to go.
J. G. P. Yes; I’m sorry, but we can, I hope, have a good talk the
time after next.
Mean while look out for Hope Star and Browning.
.J. G. P. Yes, I certainly will.
thank you very much good morning.
M
On my return home after the sitting I looked through Mrs
Verrall’s script and found in her script of Jan. 28 what I
took to be a representation, though in expanded form, of “ Hope,
Star and Browning”; and the next day (sitting of Feb. 12)
I told Myersp of the success, as already described in the last
section (p. 55). The word “Evangelical” had not appeared
in Mrs. Verrall’s script; so on Feb. 13 I said to MyerSp :
—
“ Y^ou said you gave the word ‘
Evangelical ’
to Mrs Verrall.
When did you give it ? ^Yas it lately since you have talked
with Mrs Verrall at this light ? ” [i.e. since Mrs Verrall had
had sittings with Mrs Piper]. To this MyerSp replied :
—“ No
I believe not
;
but recall it as one of my own words which I
tried to give her ”.
At the sitting of Feb. 27 “Evangelical” is again, and this
time spontaneously, referred to by MyerSp, first as “ evangelic ”,
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 61
a second time apparently as “ evangelical ”, a third time, in
capital letters traced with care and mnch apparent effort, as
“EVE E V L ”, and finally as “ E V E L Y ”
;
and as these last
letters are written MyerSp adds :
—“ I am too today, my
thoughts wander”. (“Weak”, or some such word, should be
supplied to fill the gap between “ too ” and “ today ”.)
Then on March 6 George Pelham, who is represented as
an active co-operator with Myers and Hodgson, says that among
other things Myers had given “ Evelyn EvELYN Hope ” to
Mrs Verrall. Whereupon the following conversation took place
between George Pelham and myself :
—
J. G. P. Is that the explanation of the word which came out here as
“ Evangelical ” ?
yes.
J. G. P. I begin to see. Thank you.
it was very stupid of Rector I must say as Hodgson and
Myers both kept Repeating it over and over again, to
him.
It will, I think, be allowed that the modification of “ Evan-
gelical ” into “ Evelyn Hope ” was spontaneous and not trace-
able to any suggestion from me. Indeed I could not have
given such a suggestion, as, beyond the fact that “ Evelyn
Hope ” brought in the word “ hope ” again, it conveyed at the
time no more meaning to me than the word “ evangelical ”
;
and, moreover, I did not then know that it was the title of
one of Browning’s poems.
I will now quote the scripts of Mrs Verrall which I take
to correspond with the words “Hope, Star and Browning”:
—
Script of Jem. 23, 1907.
Justice holds the scales.
That gives the words but an anagram would be better
Tell him that—rats star tars and so on. Try this.
It has been tried before RTATS rearrange these
five letters or again tears
stare
seam
same
and so on
62 J. G. Piddington. [part
Skeat takes Kate’s Keats stake steak.
But the letters you should give tonight are not so many
—only three
a s t
ScrijJt of Jan. 28, 1907.^
Aster [star]
repas [wonder or sign]
The world’s wonder
And all a wonder and a wild desire
—
The very wings of her
A WINGED DESIRE
vTTOTTTepos epws [winged love]
Then there is Blake
and mocked my loss of liljerty.
But it is all the same thing—the winged desire
TTodeii'os [passion] the hope that leaves
the earth for the sky—Abt Vogler for earth
too hard that found itself or lost itself—in the sky.
That is what I want
On the earth the broken sounds
threads
In the sky the perfect arc
The C major of this life
But your recollection is at fault
ADB is the part that unseen completes the arc.
1 After Jan. ‘23 Mrs Verrall did no automatic writing until Jan. 28.
LVil.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 63
Mrs Verrall had handed this script to me on Jan. 29, and
pencilled on the envelope was this note :
—
“Jan. 29, /07. Is enclosed attempt at BirdX ‘winged,’
v'TTOTTTepo'i, and ‘
Abt Yogler ’ ( Yogel) suggest it. The later
part is all quotations from E. B.’s Aht Voglcr and earlier from
the Ring and the Book. ‘
Oh, Lyric Love ’
etc.”
Jlrs Yerrall might have added that “ bird ” was also suggested
by the line which in the original precedes “ And all a wonder
and a wild desire ”, namely,
“ 0 lyric Love, half angel and half bird
Now as to the correspondence with the words “ Hope, Star
and Browning ” ;
—
Ho'pe is found in the words “ the hope that leaves the earth
for the sky
These words are a misquotation of
“ The passion that left the ground to lose itself in the sky
“ Hope ” has been substituted for “ passion ”
;
and it seems
to me that by means of this very misquotation or substitution
emphasis is thrown on the word “hope.”^ Mrs A'errall knew
of the misquotation. She wrote to me on Feb. 15, 1907 :
—
“ I knew perfectly when I read the script that it should have
been ‘ passion ’
which left the ground for the sky—and I was
annoyed at the blunder ! The epw? TroOeah?, which came
straight out of a passage that I had been translating in the
course of my work, represents ‘ passion.’ And I wondered why
the silly thing said ‘
Hope.’
”
1 “ And all a wonder and a wild desire’" ma}- have emerged because it thus
vaguely suggested “ bird ”
; but at least its emergence was probably facilitated
by an association of ideas between its context and “the broken arcs” and
“a perfect round” in Aht Vogter. Its context is as follows:
—
“ so I wrought
This arc, by furtherance of such allo}',
And so, by one spirt, take away its trace
Till, justifiably golden, rounds my ring.
A ring without a posy, and that ring mine ?
0 lyric Love,” etc.
®For a similarly significant misquotation v. p. 271.
64 J. G. Piddington. [part
Broivning pervades the whole script, and is besides definitely
mentioned in Mrs Verrall’s pencilled noted
Star is given prominently at the head of the script of Jan. 28
in the form Aster, the Greek for star. It is written in Eoman
not Greek letters ;
perhaps in order to justify the anagram
Te^a? (
= teras), the e of which is short, whereas the e of aster
if written in Greek would be long, Tepag usually means a
sign or wonder, especially a sign in the heavens ;
and the
Epic plural Telpea meant the heavenly constellations. Some
authorities also trace repa? and acrWip to the same root ; so
not only do these two words form an anagram, but they are
related etymologically, and in significance are closely associated.
But this is not the only reference to “star” in Airs A^errall’s
script, for the word occurs again, this time in English, in
the script of Jan. 23, which indisputably forms a prelude
to the script of Jan. 28 ;
and here, too, it appears as part of
an anagram, “ rats arts star ”.
I suspect that the introduction of the quotation from Blake
—
“ And mocked [for “ mocks ”] my loss of liberty
”
—was due to
the preceding epw? which means both ‘
love ’
and the ‘ god of
love ’
;
for in Blake’s poem it is the ‘
Prince of Love ’
who
mocks at the lover’s loss of liberty.
When, by reason of the coincidences involved, my mind
began to concentrate itself on these two pieces of script and
the words “ Hope, Star and Browning ” given in the Piper
trance, a vague impression came over me that the string of
words, “ rats arts star,” had somehow and somewhere come
under my eyes before. At first I thought this must be mere
fancy, and, when, after a little, I seemed to remember having
seen them written on a piece of paper in iJr Hodgson’s hand-
writing when I went through his private papers in the early
summer of 190 6, at Boston, I was inclined to accuse myself
of suffering from a delusion of memory. Still the memory
—
real or fancied—persisted, and to satisfy myself I wrote to
I)r. Hodgson’s executors in Boston, Air George Dorr and Air
Henry James, Jr., and asked them to search among the odds
1 vSome of these comments which Mrs. Verrall appends to her scripts bear,
I fancy, nmch the same relation to the subject-matter of her script, as do
the utterances of Mrs Piper during the later part of the waking-stage to her
trance-script.
/4'i -e
^"TA ^ £
TSAks
A ^E- ^
. ^MX^
A AB-sr
REsr- CL
H
1 r -r.n e a
H- B-^rC-n.
He i€&sr
KB-^t he
Akee. S’tr.
TUEIl&is
^r^15
/•A «e-S
IZfitTS
4 kts
TRA^
To face ]t. <i5.
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 65
and ends which, with other matter such as letters, I had handed
over to them, for a scrap of paper with the words “ rats arts
star” upon it. On August 23, 1907 Mr James sent me the
sheet of paper containing a rough draft of anagrams in the
handwriting of Dr Hodgson of which a copy is reproduced here.
I confess that when this came into my hands I felt as I
suppose people do who have seen a ghost ;
for, though not
surprised to see the “ rats arts star ” anagram, I was positively
startled when I saw the anagram “ rates stare tears aster ” etc.,
of which I had no recollection whatever.^
^It maj' seem strange that, while the appearance of “rats star tars” in
Mrs Verrall’s script brought back to my mind the fact of my having seen
these words on a sheet of paper in Dr Hodgson’s, handwriting, the appearance
of “tears stare” and “aster” in the same script should not have provoked
the smallest glimmer of memory of my having seen this anagram too among
Dr Hodgson’s papers. I believe that I can account for my remembering in
one case and for my not remembering (I purposely do not say “forgetting”)
in the other. When I was going through Dr Hodgson’s papers I found
scattered about all over the place, in books, in pigeon-holes of his writing-
desk, among notes on the Piper trance, among bundles of old letters, and so
on, scores of sheets, or more usually scraps of paper scribbled over with
words and figures. I didn’t at first grasp what they were, and threw many
of them away into the waste-paper basket. Then after a time I realised that
they were notes of riddles and puzzles, charades and anagrams and acrostics ;
and thinking they might possibly come in useful either to corroborate
references which might be made to them in the Piper trance by the Hodgson
control, or as material on which to base questions which could be put at
some future time to this control, I kept thein and made a packet of them. I
soon found, however, that many of the scraps referred to the same puzzle or
anagram, as the case might be. “Star, rats, tars, arts” appeared again and
again on separate scraps of paper. Dr Hodgson had evidently whiled away
many an idle quarter of an hour over this anagram. Thinking it would be
useless to keep duplicates I destroyed them, and kept only one example of
each. These, as I have said, I handed over to Mr Dorr and Mr Henry
James before I left Boston, after explaining how I thought they might come
in useful. (They w^ere left with the executors, not because they as executors
wanted them, but simply because it was in Boston and not iii England that
they could at that time be utilised.)
Xow the sheet of paper w'hich Mr Henry James sent over in August 1907
in response to my enquiry is not the piece of paper which I remembered as
having seen wdth the words “rats arts star” on it. The one I seemed and
still seem to remember is not a whole sheet with writing in violet ink, as is
this one, but a small and torn scrap with writing in black ink—an ink little
used by Dr Hodgson. So wdiat I think probably happened was this : the
paper I remember being a torn scrap and containing only the “rats arts star”
anagram, I destroyed it and duplicates of it when I came across the whole
E
66 J. G. Picldington. [part
With regard to the anagrams in her scripts of Jan. 23 and
28, Mrs Verrall writes:
“ Skeat takes Kate’s Keats ” is from an anagram that I remember
among the dozens made by Mr Myers, my husband and Sir Richard
Jebb. It is impossible to say that among these was not one on
‘
star ’
: in fact I should think it is certain that that one was made.
I can only remember with certainty one by B. Darwin, and one of
which Helen reminded me (made by Mr Myers) :
‘
notes Eton’s
onset; tones &c.’”
“ Star ” would doubtless be a word very likely to suggest
itself for the purpose of an anagram. The anagram “ Eats,
arts, star ”, for instance, has lately, so I am informed, been
made use of at Maskelyne and Devant’s conjuring entertain-
ment. That the anagram “ Eats star tars ” should have appeared
in Mrs Verrall’s script is in itself not, of course, in the very
smallest degree surprising. The significance of its appearance
lies partly in its coincidence with the “ Star ” of Mrs
Piper’s trance ;
partly in the fact that the “ star ” of the trance
and the “ star ” of the script were both associated with “ Brown-
ing ”
;
partly, as will be seen presently, in its identity with
an anagram automatically written by Miss Verrall, which was
likewdse associated with Browning ;
and partly in the fact
that both it and another anagram, “ stare tares tears ”, with
which it was conjoined, had been similarly conjoined by Dr
Hodgson.
But the coincidence does not end here.
We naturally were all considerably elated by the “ Hope
Star and Browning ” correspondence (though the full significance
sheet which contains this anagram among others. The words “star tars rats”
would have cauglit my eye, I should then have seen that there were other
words on the same sheet, and that would have been enough to decide me to
keep this sheet and to destroy the other scraps on which “rats arts star”
appeared alone. Not having the very least interest in such things—in fact
anagrams and acrostics have always seemed to me to be a particularly silly
thing to waste time and energy over—I should not have bothered to read the
other words on the sheet. This, then, will explain how it was that the
appearance of “tears stare” and “aster” in Mrs Verrall’s script awoke no
recollection in my mind, as did “rats arts star”. I must apologise for this
digression, but I do not see how I could well omit it if I am to furnish
students of these phenomena with the evidence requisite for forming an
opinion as to the possible sources of the automatic writings.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 67
of the incident was not apparent till months later), and by
way of encouragement Mrs Verrall, on Feb. 15, gave her
daughter a general description of the incident, being, however,
careful to substitute imaginary words for the original ones.
For “Star” “Planet Mars” was substituted, for “ Flope
”
“Virtue,” and for “Browning” “Keats.” The script of Jan.
23 was not mentioned, and a general description only of the
script of Jan. 28 was given. One correct detail only was
Miss Verrall told, and that was that a five letter anagram had
constituted a part of the success on Jan. 28.
Before, however. Miss Verrall had been told anything at all,
she had on Feb. 3, written the following script: —
Vulliamy not to be confused with the other.
Williams more precious than rubies what was
the name of the younger child Cecil Atl Mundellier
(scribbles)
quam ob rem in Siciliis proficiscitur [wherefore in Sicily he
sets out.]
a green jerkin and hose and doublet where the
song birds pipe their tune in the early morning
therapeutikos ek exotikoii [a healer from aliens]
a monogram
the crescent moon
remember that and the star
like a thunder riven oak the grim remains
stand on the level desolation of the plains
a record of all ages of the span
which nature gives to the weak labour of a man.
68 •/. G. Piddington. [part
After she had been told about the coincidence between her
mother’s script and that of Mrs Piper, Miss Verrall wrote the
following on Feb. 17, at which time she was away from home
and at a distance from Mrs Verrall :
—
androsace (?) Carthusian candelabrum
many together
that was the sign she will understand
when she sees it
diapason Sia Traa-ojv pvOjio^ [rhythm through all]
No arts avail
the heavenly harmony ws oTrAariov [as Plato says]
the mystic three (?)
and a star above it all
rats everywhere in Hamelin town
now do you understand Henry (?)
These two scripts seem to hang together, for each contains
a drawing of a star and the word “ star ” : a combination not
found elsewhere in Miss Verrall’s automatic writing during the
period under review. Possibly there exists another, though
less definite, link between them. The second script unques-
tionably alludes to Browning’s Pied Piiyer of Hamelin in the
phrase “ rats everywhere in Hamelin town ”. This phrase is
followed by the words “ now do you understand ? ”, which seem
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms. 69
to imply that after a previous failure success has now been
achieved in impressing the automatist with the idea of the
Pied Piper. Traces of this previous failure may perhaps be
found in the first script in the word “ pipe ”
;
and also in the
phrase “ therapeutikos ek exotikon ”, which is applicable to
the Pied Piper, for he cured Hamelin of its plague of rats,
and, says the poem, “ There was no guessing his kith and
kin”. Moreover, the only script which Miss Verrall wrote
between Feb. 3 and Feb. 17, that of Feb. 12, opens with
the disconnected phrase :
“ Manheim she has seen it ”
;
and
Manheim, the name of one German city, represents, I suspect,
the first attempt to express the name of another German city,
Hamelin.
Other points to be noted in connection with these two
scripts of Miss Verrall’s are as follows :
—
(1) The resemblance between Miss Verrall’s drawing of a
star followed by the words “ that was the sign ”, “ she [i.e.
Mrs. Verrall] will understand when she sees it ”, “ and a star
above it all ” on the one hand, and Mrs Verrall’s “ Aster
Tepa<s
”
(Star Sign) on the other.
(2) The appearance of a four letter anagram. (It might
have been supposed, after Miss Verrall had been informed of
the significance of a five letter anagram in Mrs Verrall’s script
of Jan. 28, that, if she were going to produce an anagram at
all, the number of the letters in it would have been five.)
(3) That this four letter anagram introduces the English
word “ star,” the equivalent of one of the two words of Mrs
Verrall’s five letter anagram, aster repa? ;
and that it is the
same anagram as one of the anagrams in Mrs Verrall’s script
of Jan. 23, of which Miss Verrall knew nothing.
(4) The introduction of three words of Dr Hodgson’s anagram,
namely, rats, arts and star ;
and of two of Mrs Verrall’s
anagram, rats and star.
(5) The absence of “tars” which had appeared in Mrs
Verrall’s script of Jan. 23.
(6) The appearance of “arts” which had not been given in
Mrs Verrall’s script, but which is found on the sheet of paper
on which Dr. Hodo;son had worked out his anagrams.
(7) The fact that Dr Hodgson had failed to hit on one
obvious rearrangement of the four letters a t r s, namely “ Tsar,”
70 J. G. Piddington. [part
and that “Tsar” does not occur in either Mrs or Miss Verrall’s
writing.
(8) The ingenious manner in which two birds are killed with
one stone in the phrase “ rats everywhere in Hainelin town
By the two birds I mean “ Browning ” and an anagram of
“ Star ”, namely “ rats ”.
(9) The use of the feminine plural Traerwr ;
which, though
perhaps suggested by the origin of the word ^lairaa-wv and by
the immediately preceding “diapason”, was nevertheless appro-
priate if we take “ the rhythm through all ” to be a recondite
allusion to the concordant results achieved by the three
automatists, Mrs Piper, Mrs Verrall and Miss Verrall.^
(10) For reasons explained above it seems not improbable
that the script of Feb. 3 is to be connected with that of Feb.
17 ;
and if it be so connected, a further coincidence is to be
traced between it and the script of Mrs Verrall. It will be
remembered that Mrs Verrall was inclined to regard her script
of Jan. 28 as aiming at the expression of the idea of a bird
(v. p. 63). Miss Verrall’s script of Feb. 3 ends with a drawing
of a bird followed by the word “bird”.
There are other points of great interest connected with
“ Hope Star and Browning ” and those scripts of Mrs and Miss
Verrall which I have been discussing; but I can deal in detail
here only with three more: namely, (1) the tj^uestion of how far
Myersp succeeded in indicating the particular piece of script to
which the “triangle within a circle” had been attached; (2) the
appropriateness of the appending of the triangle and circle to
Mrs Verrall’s script of Jan. 28 ;
and (3) the conjunction in
IMiss Verrall’s script of Feb. 3 of a crescent moon with a star.
The other points must be left for discussion until I come to
deal with an experiment of which the object was to see if
MyerSp could understand a message conveyed in Latin and
reply intelligently to it (v. “The Latin Message,” pp. 312-416).
(I) How far did MyerSp succeed in indicating the piece of
script to loliicli the triangle and circle had been attached.
On Jan. 16 I had asked Myersp to mark corresponding
messages given to Mrs Verrall and Mrs Holland with a triangle
^For another point connected with “diapason” v. pp. 329-330.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 71
inside a circle. Mrs Verrall’s script of Jan. 28, which con-
tained a cross-corresponding message, was so marked.
On Feb. 26 I asked Hodgsoiip to tell MyerSp that Mrs
Verrall had drawn a triangle within a circle, and he promised
to convey my message. Apparently however he failed to do
so, for on March 6 the following occurred in the course of the
sitting with Mrs Piper :
—
(Myers communicating) I gave also [i.e. to Mrs Verrall] a
(a circle was here drawn)
(Rector communicating)
he holds up a circle.
R.
J. G. P. Yes.
But the
J. G. P. Yes 1
(J. G. P. remains silent.)
did not appear.
I tried to draw it as he made it R,
•J. G. P. Rector, ask Myers if he can describe by a single word the
figure you have just drawn.
Repeat. I was listening to him
Pardon.
(J. G. P. repeats question.)
(Myers communicating)
T R
72 [part
J. G. Pidclivgton.
J. G. P. Yes, that is right. Triangle.
(Hand assents.) did not appear while I was present
blit I hope to succeed in bringing it out.
inside the circle as you suggested.
.1. G. P. Yes. Will you listen ?
(Rector communicating)
certainly.
J. G. P. Ask Myers ivhen he made the attempt to draw the triangle
inside a circle. Can he remember any other words he
did succeed in getting through at the same time 1
Do you mean what day friend 1
I doubt if he could tell you this.
but he may be able to tell you which word.
what word he made her write.
(Then after references to other matters J. Cf. P. returned
to the subject.)
J. G. P. Please tell Myers he did at least once make Mrs Verrall
draw the circle with a triangle inside it.
yes. I will he will be very glad to U.D. that the triangle
came through as he did see the circle but could not be
sure absolutely of the whole triangle
he also wrote something about Bird.
J. G. P. Yes, quite.
did you U.D. it. as it came oiif? He wishes to know.
J. G. P. He has written about a bird, and I think I understand ;
but
I want him to explain.
Oh yes. He says he did say Bird and Paradise
(“Paradise” rewritten spontaneously, although at once read.)
and something else I do not quite U.D.
AVait until he rests and I will get it clearer.
Mrs Verrall had noted on the envelope containing her script
of Jan. 28—the script, that is, to which the drawing of the
triangle and circle had been appended—“ Is enclosed attempt
at BirclV’ (v. p. 63); and Miss AMrrall’s script of Feb. 3^
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 73
which, by its connection with her script of Feb. 17, seems to
connect indirectly both with “ Hope, Star and Browning ” and
with Mrs Verrall’s script of Jan. 28, ends with a drawing of
a bird and the word “bird”.
So far then Myersp connects the circle inside a triangle with
a Bird. On March 13 it is, I think, with sufficient explicitness
connected with “ Hope, Star and Browning ” : the words, as I
take it, used by MyerSp to indicate l\Irs Yerrall’s script of
Jan. 28. I append the relevant extracts;
—
(Myers communicating) I U.D. your reference to the poem.
in your Latin message to me which,
led me to refer to Browning.
and the circle gave me a better understanding of it as it
came throusrh this liHit
(a circle was here drawn)
Circle.
J. G. P. Yes.
I gave or helped Mrs V— to draw it.
J. G. P. Yes.
and signed my name, to it.
(Other matters were then referred to, and afterwards MyerSp
reverted to the subject thus :
—
)
Now 1 thought the circle would complete my U.D. of the
message. M.
J. G. P. I see a meaning in what you say, but that does not make
it quite clear.
reread the part [i.e. of the Latin Message] where you refer
to the poem.
J. G. P. You mean in my Latin Message ? One moment. (Then,
as hand starts to write) Well 1
Ring
(a circle and a triangle were here drawn)
J. G. P. Circle and triangle 1
yes.
74 [part
J. G. Pidclington.
J. G. P. What does “ Ring ” mean
(Hand points from “Ring” to the circle.)
J. G. P. The Latin Message does not refer— [I was going to add
“ to a poem ”.]
(interrupting) not exactly to a poem I know
but it suggested a poem to my mind
Hence B
H.
S etc. [i.e. “Browning, Hope, Star”.]
it [i.e. the Latin Message] remind [in error for “re-
minded ”] me of a passage very familiar to me. when I
was in the body and I mentioned (a circle was here
drawn) as being a connecting link
J. G. P. I see what you mean.
The last extract will, I think, be clear if I explain that on
Feb. 27 MyerSp said quite distinctly that “Hope, Star and
Browning ” was his answer to the Latin message. At this
point it does not matter in the least whether there was any
sense in this answer or not ;
all that we need consider now
is this ;
—MyerSp connects the Latin Message with a poem of
Browning’s ;
he then connects this poem with “ Browning-
Hope Star”; I had as long ago as Feb. 11, before there was
any suggestion made that “ Browning, Hope, Star ” was an
answer to the Latin Message, recognised Mrs Verrall’s script of
Jan. 28 as answering to these thi-ee words; MyerSp connects
his drawing of the circle with his reference to the Browning-
poem ;
and as a matter of fact, as we know, a circle with a
triangle inside it was drawn at the end of Mrs Verrall’s
script of Jan 28. The process by which MyerSp indicates
the particular piece of Mrs Verrall’s script in which the circle
and triangle appeared is no doubt involved and difficult to set
forth in any but a round-about and tiresomely recapitulatory
fashion ;
but I think that, notwithstanding the complexities, 1
am justified in considering that a right answer was conveyed,
and that it was not derived from any hints given by myself.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 75
(II) The airpropriateness of affixing the triangle and circle to
Mrs Verrall’s script of Jan. 28.
The script of Jan. 28 contains the words:
“ On the earth the broken sounds
threads
In the sky the perfect arc
”
and they are clearly misquotations of the last line of the
ninth stanza of Aht Vogler ;
“ On the earth the broken arcs ;
in the heaven, a perfect
round.”
The “ broken arcs ” and the “ perfect round ” of the poem
are, moreover, clearly alluded to in the drawing of the triangle
within a circle which comes at the end of the script of
Jan. 28 : the segment joined by the chord AB representing
the broken arcs ”, and the circle representing the “ perfect
round ”.
I think that the appropriateness will be admitted, as also the
pertinence of the words written by Myersp on March 13: “It
[i.e. the Latin Message] suggested a poem to my mind. Hence
Browning, Hope, Star etc. It reminded me of a passage very
familiar to me when I was in the body and I mentioned
Circle as being a connecting link ”.
I do not know if AM Vogler w’as “very familiar” to Frederic
IMyers,^ but certainly the whole poem expresses with singular
fidelity the aspirations of his whole life and the convictions
of his last years.
(III) The conjunction in Miss Vcrrall’s script of Feh. 3 of a
Crescent moon and a Star.
On April 8 Myersp again states that the Latin Message
suggested the poem of Browning’s to him, and he goes on
:
I made a circle
E. M. S. Oh ! a circle. Yes, 1 remember.
1 Since this was written, my attention has been drawn to a letter of Myers’s
published in the Life and Letters of Sir R. C. Jebb (pp. 144-5), from which
it is clear that Myers was familiar with Abt Voijler.
76 J. G. Piddington. [part
as it suggested it to my mind I then drew or
tried to draw a Star. . . . draw through the other light.
E. M. S. I see ;
you drew a star.
and I did so so you would U.D. that I U.D. the message.
E. M. S. Yes.
and I did this
(a star was here drawn)
E. M. S. I see ;
a star.
yes did you see it.
E. M. S. Yes, there was a star drawn.
I drew it. so you would U.D. that I did it also a crescent.
Miss Verrall’s script of Feb. 3 contains, as we have seen,
the following
:
the crescent moon remember that
and terminates thus
:
It is true that MyerSp does not say that he gave the star
and crescent to Miss Verrall, but “to the other light”. Mrs
Verrall may have been intended by these words, and on
April 8 many cross-correspondence messages were mentioned
by MyerSp as having been given to her ;
but the expression
“ the other light ” is unusual ;
I believe it is applied only
once elsewhere ^
to Mrs Verrall, who is otherwise referred
^ This was on March 6, 1907 when George Pelham spoke of Mrs Verrall as
“the other light'’, but only after I myself had applied the phrase to her: my
reason for so doing being that George Pelham is represented—naturally and
appropriately—as being unfamiliar with Mrs Verrall’s name.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 77
to, when cross-correspondences are in question, as “Mrs Verrall,”
“Mrs V,”, or “Mrs V—”, or merely as “she” or “her”. It
remains, then, uncertain who is meant by “ the other light ”.
It should, however, be noted that MyerSp begins by saying
that he “ made a circle ”. Now it had already been clearly
stated that the circle had been drawn through Mrs Verrall.
He next adds :
“ I then drew ... a star through the other
light ” ;
and “ then ” suggests a different occasion, and “ other ” a
different automatist.
The drawing over the crescent moon is certainly intended
for a star, as the words, “ and a star ”, immediately follow the
drawing of the crescent moon ;
and anyhow in Miss Verrall’s
script of Teb. 17 there is an unmistakable drawing of a
star. Mrs Wrrall’s script contains no drau'ing of a star.
VII.
“ AKEOW.”
Not without relief I come now to deal with a less com-
plicated incident. On Feb. 12, as related above, I told
MyerSp that Mrs Verrall had reproduced both his message for
Mrs Sidgwick about a Library and “ Hope, Star and Brown-
ing ”. Whereupon Myersp^ after asking me not to be in a
hurry for his answer to the Latin Message, said goodbye.
From this point I quote the record ;
—
Extract from record of sitting with Mrs Pifcr held on Feb.
12, 1907.
arrow
HODGSON.
J. G. P. Yes. Will you explain that ?
I said to Mrs V
78 J. G. Piddington. [part
J. G. P. Yes, I see.
farewell.
J. G. P. Thank you, Hodgson.
The rest of the sitting was concerned with communications
for the sitter, Mr IMacalister.
The next reference to this experiment is on Feb. 18, and
is very brief :
—
(Rector communicating) Hodgson says do not forget arrow,
watch for it if it comes out.
.J. G. P. I have not forgotten ;
I will look out for it.
Extract from record of sitting laitli Mrs Piper held on Feb.
19, 1907.
(Hodgson communicating) Hello Piddington glad to see you.
how are you first rate I hope %
J. G. P. Thanks, I’m all right Yoir said you were going
to give arrow to Mrs Verrall.
I did certainly say so and I have been there three days
trying to impress it upon her.
J. G. P. Yes.
hard.
S!ie did get a r I think and stopped there.
J. G. P. Well, I don’t remember whether she got “ a r ”
—
(interrupting before J. G. P. had completed what he was going
to say)
after that I saw w written I know.
•J. G. P. “ M written ” ?
(H:md negatives.)
.J. G. P. Is it “ W’”?
(Hand assents.)
.T. G. P. I don’t know about W, hut it did seem to me that she was
cettino: near the idea of arrow. Do you know what she
did get?
79
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
not exactly, but Piercing swift and Piercing came into
my own mind while impressing her. and I tried in
several ways to (hesitation) to make her U.D. my real
meanins;.
J. G. P. Well, you’ll stick to it, won’t you ? I think it may come
out all right.
you bet your life I will.
She is the very best subject we have to work with and I
believe she can become much more important to us.
Extract from record of sitting vntli Mrs Piper held on Feh.
20 ,
1907.
(Hodgson communicating) meanwhile I should like to know
if Mrs Y— U.D. my message ?
J. G. P. I find she did write “ a r ”. I can’t say anything about the
“w”; it isn’t certain.
I am not absolutely sure myself about this but she wrote
what appeared to be an M or a W. and as I U.D. it
J. G. P. (interrupting) Is the first letter an M ?
yes but as my point was to bring out the W.
I believe she made it distinct enough to be recognized as a IV.
J. G. P. The “ W ” being, I suppose, the last letter of the word
“ arrow ” ?
(Hand assents, and also writes) Yes. quite.
J. G. P. I am going to ask you a question, Hodgson ;
but don’t answer
now, nor for that matter at any time, if you don’t like.
No Pid I learned my lesson when you put those confused
and misunderstood words to me before. i.e. C.M.B.
[i.e. Callie Bonney Marble. I had asked Hodgsoiip if
these names, which were those of a lady known to Dr
Hodgson, hail any meaning for him, and he had given
several totallj' wrong answers.]
J. G. P. I understand. IVhat I
—
(interrupting) Speak slowly Pid kindly.
When Mrs Yerrall got the letters “ a r ” she wrote several
words beginning with the letters a r.
O O
J. G. P.
so [part
J. G. Picldington.
that makes no special difference to me.
my special word to her was arrow
AE
J. G. P. I quite understand that, but what I want to know is this :
In your attempt to impress “ arrow ” did you try to get
at it by impressing the actual words which she wrote
beginning with a r ;
or are these words the result of
Mrs Verrall’s own mind?
that is what it is.
the actual word or point was to make her write arrow,
this is the only obstacle in our way at present.
J. G. P. Yes. It is certainly instructive to us to know just what
you actually tried to impress, and it ought to be instruc-
tive to you to know just what actually came out; so I’ll
tell you the words in “ar” which Mrs Verrall wrote.
They were “arch”, “architecture”, “architrave” and
“ pointed arch.”
Pointed was my own word to suggest arrow.
more
J. G. P. It was because of the drawing of a ])ointed arch that I told
you yesterday she was getting near your word “ arrow ”.
I U.l). this veiy well I also impressed upon her mind that
she should write Swift (Hand waves to the right, and then
consults spirit.) as an Arrow. Well suppose I go over
this.
(to spirit) Hello Myers, wait a bit.
go to her again as soon as I finish here and give her the
suggestion again.
J. G. P. Yes, very good.
Extract from record of sitting icitli Mrs Pilfer held on Feb.
25 ,
1907.
(Hodgson communicating) Got arrow yet? H.
J. G. P. Well, Hodgson, I don’t think the word “ arrow ” has been
written, but it has certainly been drawn.
Amen.
I spent hours of earthly time trying to make her U.D.
LVii.] ^4 Series of Concordant Automatisms. 81
J. G. P. She hasn’t got the actual word )"et ;
and I should like to
make a suggestion, which, of course, you needn’t pay
any attention to unless you like. How would it be if
you tried to make her think of Longfellow’s line: “I
shot an arrow into the air”l
I gave her a similar line.
Swift as an Arrow.
J. G. P. Yes, but she hasn’t got that line ;
and as you succeeded in
making her write about Browning you might be able to
impress her with Longfellow and his poem.
Yes I will certainly Stick to it
On Feb. 12, then, Hodgsoup announced for the first time
his experiment of impressing Mrs Verrall with the word “arrow ”.
Coj^y of Mrs Verrall's script of Feh. 11, 1907 :
—
There has been nothing for you today nor will be yet.
We cannot make them understand the importance of what
we do and they must learn for themselves. But it is
all well and later the news will come.
It is all fragmentary and you must piece together
—
the essential word is often not grasped and the whole success
so spoiled.
44.
tria convergentia in unum
[three things converging
to one (point).]
you have surely had that before
The remainder of the script, which refers to Mr Everard
Feilding’s return from abroad and to “ uncut sapphires”, is not
connected with what precedes.
This script was written at 10.40 p.m. on Feb. 11, and
the envelope containing it bore the postmark :
“ Cambridge,
2.15, p.m. Feb. 12.” I received it and read it at 11 a.m. on
Feb. 13, 24 hours after the Piper trance of Feb. 12 ;
so I at
F
82 J. G. Piddivr/ton. [part
any rate cannot have played the part of agent to Hodgsoiip on
Feb. 12. I do not think that anyone will dispute that the
drawing represents three arrows. Mrs Verrall always took the
drawing for arrows, and made a note to that effect in her
script-book on Feb. 28 ;
and spoke of them to me as arrows
on March 13, a fact which I made a note of at the time. It
was not till June 4, 1907 that Mrs Verrall learnt that “arrow”
had been a cross-correspondence experiment.
The phrase “ tria convergentia in unum ”, written opposite
the drawing, suggests that the subject of the drawing is con-
nected with a cross-correspondence. A similar phrase “ tria
ilia in unum convergentia ” had occurred in Mrs Verrall’s
script of Jan. 20, 1905, and the words “you have surely had
that before ” showed that the scribe knew that.
On Feb. 18 Eector had written: “Hodgson .says do not
forget arrow, watch for it if it comes out ”.
Mrs Piper’s trance did not begin on this day until 11.20 a.m.;
and it must have been quite 11.30 before these words were
written.
Mrs Verrall sat down to write automatically on Feb. 18
at 10.55 a.m. and would certainly have completed her script
by 11.30. Her script of that day was as follows:
—
do ew No nor any other
Cant you take the messcage 1
A L E M B E P T no Mont alban or Mont auban
the white hill and les neiges d’antan
Blanche de Lys or some such name—but it is all only
symlobic [sic]
it seems to be carvings in stone
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 83
Church architecture or some such thing.
Who wants those drawings? this is quite fresh. I keep
trying to say a long word.
ARCHITECTONIC ARCHITRAVE
I cant get rid of the idea ARCH it obsesses me
There has been great confusion here and I do not think
anything has been accurately said
accurate dicta adcuranda sunt [things said accurately are
to be attended to.]
But the white arch should give a clue.
I received and read this script on Feb. 19 at 10.55 a.ni.;
and about 25 minutes later I reminded Hodgsoiip that he had
said that he was going to give arrow to Mrs Verrall. Without
the help of any hint from me he thereupon replied :
“ She did
get a r I think and stopped there ”. I said I didn’t remember,
and Hodgson then added “ after that I saw w written I know ”.
Now in the light of this let us consider Mrs Verrall’s script
of Feb. 18.
“ do ew.” Is it possible that this might represent a mis-
hearing or a miswriting of “ Do a ‘
W ’
” ?
Four words soon follow in quick succession all beginning
with the letter A ;
three of them consisting of the same number
of letters as the word “ arrow ”. Two of them, “ alban” and
“ auban ”, appear to suggest the idea of whiteness to the
automatist ;
hence “ the ivhite hill ”, “ les neiges d’antan ”,
“ Blanche de Lys ”, the second of these three being a reminis-
cence of a phrase, “ Blanche comme un lys,” which occurs
in a poem of Villon’s ;
and at the end of the script the
84 ./. G. Piddvngton. [part
“ white arch Next come two drawings, one of which certainly
is like two bows back to back. Then follows a series of
words all beginning in “ Ar ” :
“ architecture ”, “ architectonic ”,
architrave ”, and “ arch ” three times ^
;
and the persistence
of the sounds of A and E should be noted in the words
“ accurate ” and “ adcurauda ”.
What was written at the sitting on Feb. 1 9 suggests, if,
indeed, it does not almost explicitly state, that only partial
success had been achieved ;
and throughout Mrs Verrall’s
script of Feb. 18 the tone of the scribe is that of a person
conscious of his inability to achieve just what he wants. No
trace of “ piercing ” or “ swift ” is to be found in what Mrs
Verrall wrote.
Mrs Verrall’s script of March 18 opens with the words:
“ There was no message for you this morning but tonight I
want to say something ”
;
and then come four drawings, of
which the last three probalTy represent a bow and arrow, an
arrow, and a target, respectively.
These drawings, so far as I can see, have no connection with
the rest of the script.
The word “ arrow ” does not appear in Mrs Verrall’s script
at all ;
and the only drawings which could possibly be taken
to represent an arrow or arrows are those of Feb. 11 and
March 18, reproduced above.
It will be remarked that Hodgsoiip did not state that Mrs
Verrall “ did get a r I think and stopped there ” until I
had read Mrs Verrall’s script of Feb. 18. If my mind is
supposed to have been the source from which this information
was drawn, it must have been from a subconscious department
of it ;
for consciously I had not noticed that the words beginning
^ In the poem of Villon’s that contains the words "Blanche comme un lys
”
occurs the name “ Archipiada ” : a fact which may explain the emergence of
the words beginning in "arch'’.
Lvii.] A Series of Covcordant Automatisms. 85
with “ ar ” had the same first two letters as “ arrow I
think that I did not notice this because the “ ar ” of arrow
is short, while the “ ar ” of the other words is long. All that
I did notice was the possible resemblance of tlie drawing
of the pointed arch to an arrow-head.
If the reader will now turn to page 68 and look at Miss
Verrall’s script of Feb. 17 (which I saw for the first time at
10.55 a.m. on Feb. 19), he will find it contains an un-
mistakable drawin" of an arrow.
O
Miss Verrall’s drawiim of an arrow came later than Mrs
Yerrall’s and than the first announcement of the word in the
Piper trance ;
and the case thus falls into line with the order
of emergence of the cross-correspondence which is conveniently
summed up in the words “ Hope, Star and Browning ”
;
and
also one of the conditions connected with Miss Verrall’s part
in that cross-correspondence is reproduced, in that the drawing
of the arrow is contained in a piece of script written wlien
l\Iiss Verrall was away from her home and at a distance
from her mother (v. p. 68).
Against the drawing of the arrow in Miss Verrall’s script
of Feb. 17 are set the words “many together”; which imply,
that “arrows” rather than “arrow” is meant, and put one in
mind of Mrs Verrall’s three arrows.
.
To sum up then: Mrs Verrall draws an arrow on Feb. 11,
Hodgsoiip on Feb. 12 says he has given “arrow” to Mrs
Verrall, and on Feb. 17 Miss Verrall draws an arrow. In
view of these coincidences the words which follow the drawing'
o
of the three arrows in Airs Verrall’s script
—“ tria convergentia
in unum ”
—become possessed of a strange pertinency.
I have a deep mistrust of tabulated statements, especially
when applied to psychological phenomena ;
but the facts dealt
with in this section lend themselves to tabulation rather better
than most of those dealt with in other sections of this paper ;
and so for the convenience of readers who are helped by
such arrangements I append a chronological summary.
8(3 J. G. Piddington. [part
Feb. 11 Mrs V.’s script has a drawing of 3 con-
verging arrows, followed by the
words :
“ tria convergentia in unum ”.
Feb. 12 Hodgsoiip says he has given “Arrow ” to
Mrs V.
Feb. 13 J.G.P. sees Mrs V.’s script of
Feb. 11.
Feb. 17 Miss V.’s script has drawing of an arrow,
followed by the words “ many to-
gether ”.
Feb. 18
(about 11.15 a.m.)
Feb. 18
(about 1 1.30 a.m.)
Feb. 1
9
(10.55 a.m.)
Mrs V.’s script has several words beginning
with a and ar.
Hodgsoiip reminds J.G.P. to “ watch for
arrow ”.
J.G.P. sees Mrs V.’s script of
Feb. 18, and Miss V.’s of
Feb. 17.
Feb. 19
(11.20 a.m.)
Feb. 20
Hodgsoiip says Mrs V. wrote ar and w.
J.G.P. tells Hodgsoiip that Mrs V. has
written several words beginning with
ar.
Feb. 25 Hodgson p asks, “ Got arrow yet ?
” J.G.P.
says Mrs V. has not written the word,
but has drawn an arrow. Hodgsonp
says he will make further attempts to
make Mrs V. write “ arrow ”.
March 1
8
Mrs V.’s script has drawings of a bow and
arrow, an arrow, and a target.
J uue 4 Mrs V. learns for the first time
that “ arrow ” has been the
subject of a cross-corre-
spondence experiment.
LVII.] Series of Concordant Automatisms. 87
VIII.
GIANT AND DWARF.
Extract from record of sittinrj loitli Mrs Piper hckl on Feh. 19,
1907.
(Present : J. G. P. alone.)
J. G. P. It might be a good thing to send a message to Mrs Verrall.
(Rector communicating.)
We intended to do so friend.
J. G. P. May I choose a message 1
Yes certainly.
J. G. P. Is Prudens here to take it ?
(Hand points to Spirit.)
I called Prudens before I (The hand points to the words
“ yes certainly ”, meaning obviously ;
“ before I wrote the
words ‘yes certainly’”.)
J. G. P. fhe message is “The Giant and the Dwarf”.
(Hand talks with Spirit.)
What is the last word spell it ?
J. G. P. Dwarf. D — fourth letter — (Hand assents) w - a - r - f.
the Giant and the dwarf.
J. G. P. Yes, quite right. A dwarf is the exact reverse of a giant.
Yes. is that all.
J. G. P. Yes; that is all.
gone.
•J. G. P. Yes. (meaning that the word “gone” was understood as apply-
ing to Prudens’ departure on his errand.)
88 J. G. Piddinyton. [part
The conversation reported above took place about 11.20
a.in. About 12.15 p.m. the subject was referred to again as
follows :
—
(Hodgson conmuniicating) Prudens has been to Mrs Verrall but
he has not been al)le to get tlie message through to her but believes
he can do so. within a very short time.
I looked in vain for any allusion to “ Giant and Dwarf
”
in Mrs Verrall’s script, and so, on March 11, I urged Myersp
to make another attempt to get the message through to Mrs
Verrall.
Extract from record of sitting unth Mrs Piper held on March
11, 1907.
•J. G. P. Will you try your very hardest to get “Giant and Dwai’f”
through to Mrs Ven’all. It has not appeared there so ,
far.
(Myers communicating)
Could you explain a little the
J. G. P. Will you rewrite that ?
Could you explain a little about first word.
I do not feel sure of it.
•J. G. P. “Giant”.
Oh Giant yes yes.
J. G. P. Tes; and “Dwarf”.
tliank you. I U.D. Wharf (hand makes a negative gesture.
J. G. P. remains silent.)
no D W A R F.
,J. G. P. Yes ;
quite right.
(Rector communicating.)
Yes I U.D. Giant & Dwarf.
R.
.J. G. P. “Giant and Dwarf”. YAs.
Yes Giant.
LVii.] A Series of Concordavt Automatisms. 89
This experiment was referred to again and again by the
Piper controls at sixteen different sittings between March 1
2
and May 27, 1907 ;
the subject sometimes being brought up
as many as four times in a single sitting. It is quite
unnecessary to quote any of these references verbatim ;
it will
be sufficient to summarise the more important.
On March 12, 13, and 18 it was stated that Mrs Verrall
had written D — the first letter of “Dwarf”; on March 19
Hodgsoiip asked if Mrs Verrall wrote “D W ”, and added
that he thought she had also written a “ G ” : i.e. the first
letter of “Giant”; and on March 20 he said that D W K
and F had been written. Statements continued to be made to
the effect that one or more letters of “ Dwarf” had been
written by Mrs Verrall. But with the one exception just
mentioned, where Hodgsoiip said that he thought the letter
G had been written, no claim was at any time made
that Mrs Verrall had written “ Giant ” or any part of the
word.
On May 1 Myersp said that Mrs Verrall did not seem
to understand “Dwarf” yet; but finally on May 27 said: “I
did give Dwarf”.
I had always regarded this experiment as one of the com-
plete failures, as I could find nothing in i\Irs AVrrall’s script
which directly or indirectly seemed to allude either to a Dwarf
or a Giant.
Mrs Verrall did not know of the attempts to make her
write “Giant and Dwarf” until October 1907, when I told
her that these words had been the subject of a long-continued
cross-correspondence experiment, without, however, informing
her of the date on which the experiment had been started.
Airs Verrall then made a search through her script but
failed, as I had done, to discover in it any possible trace
either of the words or of the idea “Giant and Dwarf”.
On Jan. 19, 1908 Mr Hereward Carrington wrote from
America to Airs Verrall as follows :
—
I had two sittings with Mrs Piper lately—in both of which R. H.
[i.e. Dr. Hodgson] purported to communicate. In the second sitting
the following occurred :
[(Hodgson communicating)]
90 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Oh yes, I took a message through Mrs Verrall.
[Mr. Carrington.] Give me anything you said through Mrs Verrall
at any time.
Yes certainly I gave Callie Callie also Dwarf also Horizon
Cloudless sky beyond the horizon
Again, it will be noticed. Dwarf and not Giant is claimed
to have been transmitted.
On Feb. 20, 1908, Mrs Verrall sent me Mr Carrington’s
letter, and with regard to it wrote as follows : —
•
Mrs P.[iper] has lately said to H, Carrington that she gave me
Dtvarf. I looked back on hearing this claim repeated, and I find
that on Feb. 19, 1907, the script suggested “little men”. The
poem beginning “ Up the airy mountain ” and referring to “ owl’s
feather” is about “little men”. [It opens and also ends with the
following lines :]
Up the airy mountain
Down the rushy glen
AVe daren’t go a hunting
For fear of little men.
Wee folk, good folk.
Trooping all together.
Green jacket, red cap.
And white owl’s feather.^
They then carried off Bridget, —who in the jirose fairy tale- is
carried off' by Pwarfs. I do not know how dates go, but, if they
fit, it is possible that there was here an approach in my script to
dwarf.
I append a copy of the concluding paragraphs of Mrs
Verrall’s script of Feb. 19, 1907 referred to above. It was
^From a poem entitled The Fairies by W. Allingham. This poem has
been extremely familiar to Mrs Verrall since 1888.
“The prose story of Brkhjel and the Dwarfs—which she has always supptosed
Allinghain’s poem to be founded on—Mrs V^errall has known since her early
childhood.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 91
begun at 5.5 p.m., posted the same evening, and received by
me at 11 a.m. on Feb. 20.
a long feather
ask about tlie feather
Up the mountain—no that is owl’s feather; not what I
want.
blue and green peacock’s feather fan screen and initials
ATM
There has come a message for you from him, but I do not
think Piddington understood.
O
To this script Mrs Verrall at the time appended these
notes
:
Up the airy mountain is the first line of a child’s poem in which
‘owl’s feather’ occurs.
Peacocks feather A. T. il/. Peacock-feather fans or screens were A.
T. Myers’s wedding present to us.
This script, I believe, primarily and chiefly corresponds with
a script written by Miss Verrall at Brighton on Dec. 31,
1906, which Mrs Verrall did not see until Feb. 20, 1907.
Copy of 2Liss VerrcdVs script of Dec. 31, 1906.
Miserere nobis domine the words were often heard
What about peacocks in a garden shimmering green and
blue and orange blossom and a white colonnade
Desdemona not that is wrong
have you seen the peacocks 1 blue is better than white but
she will not understand
moneta ut in utrisciue excitatio leve momentum quod
excutitur sapienter de moribus.
[All Latin words, but practically untranslatable.]
92 J. G. Fiddington. [part
(Here came a drawing of a peacock’s feather very closely
resembling the one reproduced below.) . ,
still on their way the * plod though the long road
and drear
their patient feet * shod were for
* of the only rvay
Mention of the feathers was the only waj^ to call it to mind.
PfiS
'V-'
The coincidences between Mi's and Miss Verrall’s scripts
are these :
( 1 ) Both draw a feather ;
(2) Both mention “peacocks”;
(2) Both mention “blue” and “green”;
(d) Mrs Verrall notes that peacock-feather fans were A. T.
Myers’s wedding present to herself and her husband ;
and
Miss A^errall’s script contains the word “ orange blossom ” in
connection with peacocks.
The primary intention of the scribe on Feb. 19 was, then,
I think, to write about peacocks’ feathers. The parenthetic
mention of “ Owl’s feather ” was, I conjecture, indirectly due to
the experiment started a few hours earlier at the sitting with
Ml'S Piper.
Thus, on Feb. 19 about 11.20 a.in. Prudens makes a first
attempt to impress “Giant and Dwarf” on Mrs Verrall. An
hour later he is reported to have failed to get the message
through but to believe that he can succeed “ within a very
short time”. Twice, then, before the script of Feb. 19 was
begun at 5.5 p.m. we may suppose that an attempt was
made to make Mrs Verrall write “Giant and Dwarf”. The
attempts failed in so far as the words were not written,
but they nevertheless left their mark on the automatist’s con-
* Undeciphertd words.
I.VII.] ^1 Series of Coneoi'dant Autumatisras. 93
sciousness, for later in the day, when for the first time that
day she set herself to do antomatic writing, upon the ideas
then received intruded the message which Prudens had pre-
viously succeeded in impressing on her mind, though not in
making her write.
The sole aim of the scribe on Peb. 19, as I conceive it, was
to make the automatist write about blue and green peacocks’
feathers. He managed to get a feather drawn and the word
“ feather ” written. The word “ feather ” suddenly provoked in
the automatist, whose subconsciousness had some hours earlier
telepathically received the “Dwarf” message, an association of
ideas between “Dwarf” and a poem containing references to
“ little men ” “ wee folk
” “ up the airy mountain ” and “ owl’s
feather ’’.
The scribe at once recognised that an alien train
of thought had been aroused ;
“ no, that is owl’s feather ;
not
what I want”: and then succeeded in leading the automatist
back to the original subject.
To put it in another way : I do not believe the drawing and
the writing of “feather” would under ordinary circumstances
have evoked recollection of “ Up the airy mountain ” or “ owl’s
feather ”, had it not been that the automatist’s consciousness had
previously been impressed with “Dwarf”.
The coincidence may seem slight ;
but the following points
should be taken into consideration :
—
(1) The script of Feb. 19 was written within 6 hours of
the “Giant and Dwarf” experiment being arranged at the
sitting with Mrs Piper.
(2) “Up the airy mountain” and “owl’s feather” can be
taken to allude to “ Dwarf ” only, and not to “ Giant ”. When
at the sitting of March 11 the subject of the “Giant and
Dwarf” experiment was mentioned for the first time since it
was arranged on Feb. 19, and since Mrs Verrali’s script of
Feb. 19 was written, MyerSp showed that he had understood
the word “Dwarf”, but was uncertain of the word “Giant”.
Moreover, except when Hodgsoup once said he thought Mrs
Verrall had written the G. of “Giant”, the trance-personalities
never claimed to have succeeded iir making her write “ Giant
”
or any letters of the word ;
whereas they often claimed to
have nrade her write “Dwarf” or some letter or letters of it;
and seven months later at a sitting in America Hodgsoup still
J. G. Piddingtov
.
94 [part
claimed that “Dwarf” had been written, but did not mention
“ Giant
(3) The only passage in her automatic writings in which
she could trace any possible allusion to Dwarf was selected by
Mrs Verrall in ignorance of the date on which the experiment
was arranged ;
and this passage, as it turned out, had been
written on the most suitable date possible.
IX.
“ LAUEEL WEEATH.”
Extract from record of u'ords spoken during the %ocddng-stagc q/
Mrs. Piper's trance of Feb. 26, 1907.
Fairies. (?1)
(Hand points.) George. — All right. — — —
J. G. P. Say that again.
There is Georsfe. Whatever is it i
C*
Morehead. (?)
J. G. P. “ Morehead ” ?
Morehead (?) (or some such name or word) — laurel for
laurel.
J. G. P. Say that again.
for laurel. I say I gave her that for laurel. Good-bye.
(addressed apparently by Mrs. Piper to the spirit.)
J. G. P. No, before you say goodbye ask him to repeat that.
I gave her that for laur-el. [I noted at the time that
the first syllable “ laur ” was clear, and the second
syllable indistinct. J. G. P.]
J. G. P. Spell it.
95
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Laur-el (oi', “Laur-ie”; the second syllable being again in-
distinct.)
J. G. P. L—a—u. Is that right 1
Aphasia, aphasia.
Mr. Headman. H is it 1 Herdnian . Thurl . There’s George.
[i.e. George Pelham.]
(Sighs) I am glad. (A long pause.)
(Smiles; then looks out of the window.) Getting dark,
isn’t it 1 getting dark 1
(Looking at J. G. P. with an expression of disgust and
alarm) There are—a nigger. Oh! dear. You go out.
I don’t like you at all.
(Pubs hands together) Dead, (rubbing right hand)
J. G. P. Head snap ?
Did you hear it ?
J. G. P. Well, I knew it.
I thought I heard someone say it was George. That’s the
window. Weren’t you over by the window?
J. G. P. Do you remember what George said ?
Well, let me think. You’re Mr. Piddington, aren’t you 1
Something—I think he said something about—let me
see. M"ell, I think it was something about laurel
wreaths, lau—rel [sic] wreaths he tell her.
J. G. P. (mistaking the last three -words for a proper name)
“Hetella ”?
(Irritably) He tell her. He would tell her. Oh! you make
me so cross . . . Tell her about.
The .sitting on the next clay was an unusually prolonged
one. Towards the end of it came another reference to “ Laurel
wreath ” :
—
Extract from record of sitting vritli Mrs. Eiinr held on Feh.
27, 1907.
(Present ; J. G. P. alone.)
(Myers communicating) I am too [weak] to tell it to-
day. my thoughts wander.
96 J. G. Piddinffttm. [part
J. ri. P. Let me say goodbye. On third after coming we meet
again.
goodbye God be with you.
•J. (t. P. Goodbye, and tlianks again — many thanks,
listen.
.J. (I. P. Yes.
I gave Mrs. Verrall
Laurel wreath
J. (P P. Yes, quite right ;
she got it.
and I said Hodgson.
.J. (4. P. “ Hodgson ” 1
yes would give the next.
,T. C4. P. I don’t know about that: I’ll look.
she may not have received it but
•J. G. P. No; but she got “laurel wreath” cleavhj.
I, (written while J. G. P. was speaking)
yes I gave her that
and as the spirit of the light
Keturned to its body^ I tried to grasp it, (Pencil breaks.)
(Rector communicating)
You must keep the machine [i.e. the pencil] in order when
the
I (?) don’t like them if they (scrawl) (Hand tries to write
bej’ond the margin of the paper.) R. [i.e. Rector.]
(Myers communicating)
Grasp the spirit, so as to give it you last time.
•J. G. P. I heard it quite well: “laurel wreath”.
Yes all right I go now
I cant think more my thoughts wander.
Farewell
Myers.
' That is, during the waking-stage.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 97
I have already for another purpose (v. pp. 47-8) quoted the
script of Mrs. Verrall which contains the correspondence; but
I shall quote it here again for convenience of reference and
in order that the reader may the more readily, with the script
thus before his eyes, take note of what I believe is both a
typical and a significant feature of Mrs. Verrall’s automatic
writing : I mean the reiteration of the important word or
idea.
Copy of Mrs. Verrall’s script of Feh. 6, 1907 (begun at
11.7 a.m.).
Laura and another
There is some great obstruction this morning
help to remove it.
This must not occur again tell him that.
Put not your light under a bushel
K.g. blue riband and five pointed star
the great Library has already gone before
Hugh Le Despenser
The branch that should have grown full straight
Apollo’s laurel bough
You dont get it right but some of this is true
I think it is a jewelled dagger
three curved objects and a point
I cant see what all this means but I am
told to say it to you
APOLLO’S LAUEEL BOUGH
There is also some point in the Library
Put together the Library and the bough
Laureatus [laurelled] a laurel wreath
G
98 J. G. Piddington. [part
perhaps no more than that
Corona laureata [laurel crown] has some meaning here
AVith laureate wreath his brow serene was crowned.
No more today—await the better news
that brings assurance with a laurel crown.
Neither the word “Laurel” nor the word “Wreath” occurs
elsewhere in Mrs Verrall’s script during the period under
review.
The script opens with the word “ Laura/’ which, in view of
what follows, may almost without hesitation be taken to be the
first emergence of “Laurel”. If “Laura” is the first attempt at
“ Laurel ”, “and another” may mean that another word, “wreath ”,
is to be added to it. I cannot trace any meaning in the words
“ There is some great obstruction ”—“ under a bushel ”. The
reference to the Library has been dealt with already (v. pp. 57-8).
Then begins a series of phrases which all (except “ a jewelled
dagger three curved objects and a point ”, which may possibly be
the first emergence of the three arrows drawn on Feb. 11, v.
p. 81) centre round the idea of laurel, and lead up to the final
expression “ laurel wreath ” or “ laurel crown ”.
The word “ laurel ” is repeated no less than four times, and
once in large letters ;
and further emphasis is thrown by the
Latin words “ Laureatus
” “ Corona laureata ”, and by the drawing
of a laurel wreath. The idea of a wreath of laurel is introduced
under slightly different forms six times: (1) “Laureatus”, i.e.
crowned or wreathed with laurel; (2) “a laurel wreath”; (3) a
drawing of a laurel wreath ; (4) “ Corona laureata ”, a crown or
wreath of laurel ; (5) “ laureate wreath ”
; (6)
“ a laurel crown ”.
We shall meet with similar examples of this harping on one
word or idea later on (v. pp. 178, 202, and 223).
In view of the frequent use of classical phraseology in Mrs.
Yerrall’s script, and of its employment in this particular script, it
is tempting to see in the first word of the script, “Laura”, an
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automat isms. 99
attempt at “ laurea ”, which is good Latin for a laurel wreath or
crown, rather than at “ laurel ”
;
but the name Laura is said to
signify “ Laurel ”, and this perhaps affords the simplest ex-
planation. The concluding words of the script seem to suggest
that success has not yet been attained, but is to be looked for in
the future ;
which makes excellent sense, since the script of Feb. 6,
had no significance until the complementary phrase was pro-
nounced at the sitting of Feb. 26. I think it quite possible that
the word uttered by Mrs. Piper, which in the original record
I represented by “ Morehead (?) ”, was really “ laureate ”, indis-
tinctly pronounced as “ Lauread ”.
An interesting parallel to the last three lines of Mrs. Verrall’s
script is to be found in Miss Verrall’s script of March 17, which
reads thus :
—
Alexander’s tomb quinque et viginti aunos post urbem conditam
[five and twenty years after the founding of the city.]
with fire and sword to purge the altar not
without grief laurel leaves are emblem
laurel for the victor’s brow
Say not the struggle nought availeth
Sesame and lilies arum lilies
When the darkness on the quiet land
Scarlet tulips all in a row.
This is the only occurrence of the word “ Laurel ” in Miss
Verrall’s script during the period under review.
1 suspect that this script exhibits some curious associations of
ideas. I should attempt to trace its development thus
:
Alexander is the first emergence of the idea of a victor, and of
a victor who was the recipient of many crowns- of victory. This
is succeeded by a fresh topic :
“ with fire and sword to purge
the altar not without grief”. These words perhaps show some
supernormally acquired knowledge of a paper just written by
Dr. Verrall but not as yet seen by Miss Verrall. Between
“grief” and “laurel” there is a space, which usually indicates
a change of subject not only in Miss Verrall’s but also in Mrs.
Verrall’s and Mrs. Holland’s script. The earlier mention of
the victor Alexander has cleared the way for the emergence of
“ laurel leaves ” and “ laurel for the victor’s brow ”
;
and between
these words and the succeeding cj^uotation from Clough there is
100 J. G. Piddington. [part
a natural enouoh association of ideas. Miss Verrall’s automatic
writing is so often characterised by odd and out-of-the-way
classical allusions that I make bold to suggest that there may
have been another link between “ Alexander ” and “ laurel
leaves The Greek name for laurel is Sd<pm}, and Sd(pvt]
'AXe^uvSpela means butcher’s broom. That, as a matter of fact,
this plant got its name not from Alexander the Great but from
Alexander (Paris) the son of Priam, makes the association of
ideas a little less straightforward, but not, I think, more unlikely.
To complete the account of this correspondence between the
scripts of Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Piper an interesting prelude
and sequel to what has been related above ought not to be
omitted ;
for, though they do not manifest so high a degree of
ingenuity as is exemplified in some other instances and especi-
ally in the auro? oupavo? a.KV]awv incident (v. pp. 107-172), they
at least afibrd a good illustration of the intelligent way in which,
in my opinion, the cross-correspondences were worked.
Extract from record of sittinq loifh Mrs. Finer held on
Jan. 2, 1907.
(J. G. P. present alone.)
(Myers communicating) I said Wreath to Mrs. Verrall.
Wreaths.
J. G. P. A wreath—a wreath of flowers ?
Yes but plural.
Wreaths of roses in her hair entwined.
(Rector communicating) I am Rector friend.
I feel . . . that the word Wreaths has been re-
ceived by Mrs. Verrall.
Extract from record of sittinq vjith Mrs. Finer held on
Jan. 21, 1907.
(Present Mrs. Verrall and J. G. P.)
•J. G. P. The friend \i.e. Mrs. Verrall] is here and will come and
sit by you.
LVii.] A Series oj Concordant Aiitomatisnis. 101
(Rector communicating) thank you. We are glad to see
you again.
Mes. V. Thank you.
and hope you will be able to U.D. our messages better
when you are not present. [Rector is speaking, and he
means he hopes that the messages which he and other
members of his group are trying to transmit to Mrs.
Verrall will in future come out more clearly in her
script.]
Mbs. V. Yes.
We can help very much.
did you U.D. about the wreath 1
Mbs. V. “ the wreath ” 1
did you U.D. about it ?
Mbs. V. I don’t understand about the wreath.
J. G. P. (to Mrs. Verrall) I understand.
all right neither does our friend present \i.e. J. G. P.] U.D.
what we mean now.
We will tell him later.
Extract from record oJ sitting with Mrs. Piper held on
Jem. 22, 1907.
(J. G. P. present alone at this point.)
J. G. P. At the last meeting you asked the friend [i.e. Mrs.
Verrall] if she understood about “wreath”; and, when
she said she did not, I said I understood. You then
said I did not understand, and that you would explain
later. Will you explain now 1
(Rector communicating.) I believe now that you did not
[“not” immediately erased] did U.D. but at that moment
while listen [sic] and registering at the same time. I did
not think so.
J. G. P. Yes, I see.
102 J. G. PiddhKjton. [part
Extract from record of sitting ivith Mrs. Piper held on
Jan. 23, 1907.
(Present: J. G. P. alone.)
(Rector communicating) we are rather sorry we mentioned
wreath before her [i.e. Mrs. Verrall] but we did so
inadvertently.
.J. G. P. It doesn’t matter. Besides, when you said I didn’t under-
stand about “wreath” that put Mrs. Verrall off the
track, I fancy.
yes very good, as it is a very good thing to try. we do
not wish to spoil it.
R.
(Myers communicating) Good bye friend Piddington.
•J. G. P. Goodbye.
I shall see you again.
F.W.H.M.
•J. G. P. Yes, certainly.
Extract from record, of sitting ivith Mrs. Piper held on
March 4, 1907.
(J. G. P. present alone at this point)
(Myers communicating) I wish to explain one more thing
i.e., when I gave Mrs. V. the message about Laurel
wreath I purposely said Laurel so as (hesitation)
make the message clear.
•J. G. P. “ so as make ” ?
(Hand negatives.)
•J. G. P. “ to make ” ?
(Hand assents and writes) to make the message clear
after having mentioned wreath here. I thought it wiser
to add more to it.
.J. G. P. You mean that as you had mentioned “wreaths” here in
Mrs. Verrall’s presence you purposely added a distinctive
word to “ wreath ” in order to strengthen the evidence ?
(Hand assents.)
103
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
J. G. P. Yes, I had already understood that.
thank yon. Goodbye if you have nothing for me.
The extracts given above explain themselves and require
no comment, except it be to remark that whatever the agency
is that effects these coincident phenomena it is not a force
working blindly and mechanically, but with intelligence and
design.
O
X.i
“CELESTIAL HALCYON DAYS.”
On Jan. 15 and again on Jan. 30, 1907 MyerSp men-
tioned in Mrs VerralTs presence several words and phrases
which he said he had given her. He did not specify the
time when the messages had been given, but the context
leaves me in no doubt that he meant to refer them to a
period anterior to the inauguration of the English sittings
with Mrs Piper.
Passages are to be found in Mrs Verrall’s script which do
correspond in some degree with all these messages ;
but none
of the coincidences is very definite, and considering how
voluminous Mrs Verrall’s automatic output has been between
March 1901 and Nov. 1906, and considering also that Mrs
Piper had read a little of Proc. Vol. XX and could have
derived therefrom some general notion of the sorts of topics to
be found in Mrs A^erralTs script, I do not think it worth while
to discuss any of these rather vague coincidences except one,
and that one chiefly, if not entirely, on account of its associa-
tion with the important group of phenomena—the auro?
ovpavo? aKUfj.wv incident—to be dealt with in the next section.
'This section is inserted here out of its proper chronological order because the
subject of it is closely related and forms a sort of prelude to the subject of
the next section.
104 J. G. Piddincjton. [part
Extract from record of sitting vjitli Mrs Pilfer held on Jan.
15, 1907.
(Present: Mrs. Verrall and J. G. P.)
(Myers communicating)
Do you remember saying you thought it possible to get
messages, through your
What did we call it.
Mes V. “ What did he call it ” ?
We
It used to move when we put our hands on it.
Mrs V. The table. Planchette.
Yes Yes quite so.
I came and gave you two messages . . . one was Dewdrops
glistening with the mist and sun . . .
remer [i.e. “ remember ”] it 1
Mrs V. Yes; I remember something about dewdrops and mist and
sun. (to J. G. P.) Pm almost sure I had that.
J. G. P. (to Mrs. V.) I thought it was Helen [i.e. Miss Verrall]
Mrs V. (to J. G. P.) No; I had it a long time ago.
I gave it you.
Mrs V. Yes.
are you listening
Mrs V. What was the other message 1
and the other was . . .
celestial halceon [sic] days
Mrs V. “Halcyon days”. That’s right [i.e. “that’s the right read-
ing”]; but what is the word before “halcyon”?
Celestial.
Mrs V. “ Celestial ” ?
Yes. (Hand thumps emphatic assent.)
Now have you it
Have you it ? and do you recall it.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 105
Mrs V. Yes. [This was an assent to the question: “Have you it?",
not to “ do you recall it 1 ”.]
I am trying with all the forces . . . together to prove that
I am Myers.
These messages have more meaning . . . they will be clear
as soon as you go over them.
The allusion to planchette is appropriate. Before Myers’s
death the only veridical messages obtained by Mrs Verrall
or at her house had been by means of table-tilting. Mrs
Verrall writes
:
I do not think that at this point MyerSp was thinking definitely
of the means or method [of communication] but onlj' of the fact
that Mr. Myers and I had agreed in the belief that Planchette or
Table-tilting might convey verifiable evidential matter Mr
Myers and I had discussed that very question constantly in the
last days before he left England.
The statements of MyerSp do not necessarily imply that
the “ two messages ’’
which he claimed to have given Mrs
Verrall were given through Planchette. They can bear a
meaning consistent with the facts mentioned in Mrs Verrall’s
letter, and might be paraphrased thus :
“ You remember that
you believed in the possibility of veridical messages being
obtained by means of some form or other of motor-automatism.
Well, I will now remind you of two messages which I have
made you record automatically.”
It is the second message only
—“ Celestial Halcyon days ”
—
which I intend to discuss.
At the sitting of Jan. 15 Mrs Verrall did not recognise
that any such phrase as “ Celestial Halcyon days ” had occurred
in her script ;
the “ yes ” which she spoke after the words
“Have you it? and do you recall it?” being an assent to “Have
you it?” and not to the second question. On Jan. 22, how-
ever, she wrote in the train, while on her way to a sitting
with Mrs Piper, a long piece of rimed script which ended
thus :
—
Then in the broader lioht
O
That floods the world s u p e r n
Clear to the sharpened sight
Hold fast the One Eterne !
10(3 J. G. Piddington. [PAliT
It was obvious to Mrs Verrall that the whole point of
tliese preposterous lines was the introduction of the word
supern ”, and this, as she noted at the time in the book in
which she copies her script, she mentioned on Jan. 23 to
her daughter and niece. Later on that day, Jan. 23; she
remembered that the word “ supernal ” had occurred in her
script of July 3, 1903 (quoted in Proc. Vol. XX. p. 64)
which ran as follows :
—
For her a message of peace —contemplation on high summits
—stillness in the air. -pos oeSa? dewi' [to the threshold of the
gods] noctivaga ilia £ Eelene [the night-wandering moon (reading,
Ee/Viyi'/;)] dp/xttTt apyvpoeiTL —eAei <Tv S’ ovk kirivola y^piupkinj [on her
silvery car goes. But you not using intelligence] you have not all
the words — TTo/YAtt deAAa [and often a storm] is part kuI XatkapL
KapTepoojvTl SeSdiperai ovpapos dAAos. [and by the whirlwind in its
might (?) the rest of the heaven will be devoured (?)] No you
confuse—the storm and whirlwind consume the blue clear space
between the worlds, but the supernal peace is undisturbed.
This script had been written on one of the few fine still
days of a very stormy and weather-broken holiday in the
Alps.
The fundamental idea of “ halcyon days ”
—an interval of
calm between storms—seems to be represented in the words
“ the storm and whirlwind consume the blue clear space
between the worlds ”. The main point of the script, however,
seems to be that while halcyon days in this world are tran-
sitory, in the celestial world they are unending. The idea of,
though not the actual phrase, “ celestial halcyon days ” would
appear, then, as MyerSp claimed, to be found in Mrs Verrall’s
script, and Mrs Verrall acknowledged this at the sitting of
Jan. 30.
It should be noted that the discovery in the script of a
passage answering to “ celestial halcyon days ” might not have
been made but for the clue afforded by the script of Jan. 22.
Airs Piper had read parts of Proc. Vol. XX, and may
therefore have read the script of July 3, 1903, which is
quoted in it as an example of an attempt at the production
of Greek hexameter verse ;
but even if this was the case, it
is difficult to imagine that any part of the consciousness of
107
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Mrs Piper, who is entirely without classical scholarship, should
have summarised it in the words “ celestial halcyon days.” But
the importance of this incident lies chiefly in the fact that
the mention in the trance by Myersp of “ celestial halcyon
days ” was one of the principal factors that determined Mrs
A^errall’s choice of the subject of a test-cpiestion which she
put to MyerSp on Jan. 29. What this question was and
how it was answered is e.xplained in the next section.
XL
“CEOSSIXG THE BAR.”
The auTO? ovpavog aKv/j.^’W INCIDENT.
With this incident I deal in a somewhat different manner
from that in which I have dealt with the other cases of
cross-correspondence. Instead of quoting the relevant extracts
from the records in the text I relegate them to an appendix,
and in the text give summaries of them only. References to
the appendix, which is placed at the end of this section, will
be made by means of Greek letters. My part in the incident
is so subordinate a one that instead of speaking of myself
in the first person, I shall speak of myself in the third person,
as “ J. G. P.”, except in some of the footnotes. The case
being a complex one, its ramifications are grouped under sub-
headings.
These changes in the method of presenting the evidence will,
I hope, make this complicated incident easier to follow.
I refer occasionally in this section to entries made by Mrs
Verrall in her private diary. These entries I have in each
case either summarised or quoted from the original diary,
which Mrs Verrall was kind enough to place at my disposal.
108 J. G. Piddington. [part
Choice of a Test- Question.
In the early part of 1907, after six sittings with Mrs Piper
in which Mrs Verrall had been struck with the vraisemUance
of the Myers personality, and also with the knowledge shown
of unpublished portions of her script connected with that
personality, Mrs Verrall decided to ask at her next sitting a
question which it would be reasonable to suppose that Myersp
—
if this personality really had access to the memories of Frederic
Myers—would be able to answer. For this purpose certain
conditions seemed desirable, some arising from the circum-
stances of the particular experiment, and others suggested by
general considerations derived from previous experience. The
important conditions were
:
1. the question should be unintelligible to Mrs Piper herself,
in order to prevent the medium’s own knowledge from affecting
the result
;
2. the question should be short, on account of the difficulty
and slowness of communication between sitter and communicator
in the present conditions of the I’iper trance
;
3. the question should concern a subject which had not only
been known to, but which had been thoroughly familiar to
Frederic Myers, so that, had it been addressed to him in his
lifetime, he would have answered it instinctively, without a
moment’s doubt, hesitation or reflection. It should therefore
concern a matter not merely of intellectual acquisition or learn-
ing, but of knowledge so completely assimilated as to have
been a stable part of his personality
;
4. the answer should be complex, though not necessarily
lengthy ;
and in order to avoid the risk of an accidentally
successful guess on the part of Mrs Piper, it should not be
expressible in a single word or phrase, but should require for
completeness allusions to more than one group of associations
;
5. the answer should be such as could be proved to have
been known to Myers : that is, the verification should not
depend on Mrs Verrall’s personal knowledge or impression
but on unmistakable external evidence
;
6. the question and answer should, in fact though not in
appearance, be connected with a range of subjects already
alluded to in Mrs Verrall’s own script by Myersy.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 109
It was not easy to find an appropriate question. Some of
the required conditions would be met if Greek were the language
of the question ;
and it seemed desirable, with a view to condi-
tion 5, to frame a question based on a Greek quotation to
which reference had actually been made in some published
work of Myers’s, though condition 1 demanded that this
reference should not be obvious or easily discoverable.
It was on January 22, 1907 that Mrs Verrall decided
to apply this test, if only she could think of a satisfactory
question. On the evening of January 23 it suddenly
occurred to her tliat the words kui ui/to? oiiparo? ukvijlwv would
serve the purpose. The words may be translated “ and the
very Heaven waveless”. They come from the 5th book of
the Enneades of the Neo-platonic philosopher Plotinus, and
form part of a passage in which he recites the conditions that
should precede and accompany the attainment of ecstasy, or
communion of the individual soul with the divine : these con-
ditions being perfect calm of soul and body and of external
nature as well. A translation of the passage from Plotinus
will be found in the second volume of Human Personality,
p. 291, but the Greek words are not given, and in the trans-
lation no emphasis is laid on the particular phrase in question.
It is there rendered “ calm be the earth, the sea, the air, and
let Heaven itself be still ”, and this sentence is in the middle
of a paragraph of some eleven lines.
The four words in Greek (followed by the name of the author,
Plotinus, but by no further reference) occur once in Myers’s
published works, namely, as the motto to a poem on Tennyson
published in Fragments of Prose and Poetry (p. 117). They
are not there translated.^
' Wishing to know whether Fragments of Prose and Poetry was known to
Mrs Piper I wrote, about the end of July 1907, and put her the question,
without explaining my reason for doing so. She replied on August 10 as
follows: — “I am sorry to say that according to my best knowledge and recol-
lection I had never even heard of such a book as you mention and did not
know that such a one had ever been printed. Since receiving your letter,
however, I have enquired of Professor James, Miss Robbins and a Miss Willis,
a friend of Miss Edmunds [formerly assistant secretary of the American Branch
of the S.P.R.] and a member of the S.P. R. The latter had never heard of the
book. I enclose a letter received from Miss Robbins [formerly an active
member of the American Branch of the S.P.R.] in reply to my question which
110 ./. G. Piddington. [PAKT
Further the words may be said to have some connexion
with Mrs Verrall’s own script. On January 15, Mrs Verrall
being the sitter, MyerSp claimed to have referred in Mrs
Verrall’s script to “Celestial Halcyon Days’" (see Appendix
a and Section X.). This claim Mrs Verrall neither accepted
nor denied, though, at the time, she felt sure that she
had written no such phrase. Her own script, however, on
January 22 recalled to her mind a much earlier script, that
of July 3, 1903,^ which on consideration was seen to reflect
the ideas, though not the phraseology of “ Celestial Halcyon
Days”. The phrase of Plotinus, therefore, though not occur-
ring in Mrs AVrraH’s script, belonged to a range of ideas
claimed by MyerSp as thex’e occurring. To put it briefly,
an intelligence acquainted with Plotinus could see a connexion
between the words cwto^ ovpapo? aKVfxwv and “ Celestial
Halcyon Days ”
;
but there is no similarity in the actual
phraseology to suggest a conne.xion to an intelligence, however
acute, not possessed of certain definite classical, philosoirhical,
and literary associations.
The words then seemed to fulfil the desired conditions.
shows such a book is not easy to obtain Mr James thought there
were only a few private copies in America, and that it had never been sold
in the shops ”
Miss Robbins’s letter to Mrs Piper states that she had heard of the book
but never seen it.
On receipt of Mrs Piper’s letter I wrote for further information to Professor
William James, who on Oct. 19 replied as follows: —“I enclose you a letter
from Longmans about the sales of Myers’s Frarpnents in Boston. W. B. Clarke,
who is more likely to have handled the book than any other Boston book-
seller, tells me, through his foreman, that he should guess he may have sold
a dozen copies.”
The letter from Messrs Longmans’ New York house was as follows ; —“ In
re “Fragments”. We regret to say we are unable to reply to your question
very satisfactorily : we do not keep any records of individual sales to localities,
and it is difficult to say where books go in detail especially as we cannot trace
sales through the jobbing houses. But a search through our own books for
.3 months after publication shower! direct sales to Boston booksellers of only
25 copies. We do not recall any recent demands, and indeed the total sales
have been very disappointing in view of the considerable den.aud shown for
the large book (Human Personality).”
For my own part I entirely and unhesitatingly accept Mrs Piper's statement
that she had not heard of the book. Note by J. G. P.
t
See Pr-oc. Vol. XX. p. 64.
LVii.J A Series of Concordant Automatisms. Ill
They could be shewn to have been familiar to Frederic Myers,
they suggested more than one group of associations and could
be connected with Mrs Verrall’s previous script, and at the
same time they would have no meaning for Mrs Piper.
On January 23 Mrs Verrall decided to apply this test,
if an opportunity arose, and on January 24 she noted this
intention and the reasons for the choice of words in her
diary (see Appendix /3). No one was informed of her intention,
and no mention was made of the subject till she put the
question to MyerSp, in the presence of J. 0. P., during the
sitting of Jan. 29 : that is to say, at the first sitting which
she attended after she had devised this experiment and cliosen
the words of Plotinus as the subject of it.
The Test-Question put.
On -lanuary 29, 1907 Mrs Verrall at the end of her
sitting with Mrs Piper suggested as an experiment to MyerSp,
that if she spoke three Greek words he should say of what
they reminded him, or translate them into English ; she also
said that these words, or something like them, had been
suggested by her script, and then gave the three words in
Greek, avrog oupavog aK-vfxoop, omitting kui (and), (see Ap-
pendix y.)
In the event of a complete answer being given, Mrs Verrall
therefore expected
:
1. a translation into English of the words avrog ovpavog
aKVfxoov ;
2. a reference to Myers’s poem on Tennyson ;
3. a reference to Plotinus and the latter ]iart of Human
Personality.
Possible Fiust Attempts in Mrs Piper’s Trance to Eeply
TO the Test- Question.
On January 30, the day after the question was put, Mrs
Verrall had another sitting with Mrs Piper. There was no
direct reference to the test-question, but Mrs Verrall thought
that some of the phrases used in the trance, though only
112 J. G. Picldington. [part
disconnectedly introduced, showed that the associations for which
she had asked were present in the tlionghts of the com-
municating intelligence ;
that there was in fact what might
be called “ preliminary emergence ” of them. Thus the phrase
“ haven of rest ” was mentioned as likely to recall to Mrs
A^errall a memory of Myers ;
and towards the end of the
sitting there was a disconnected allusion to “ Larches ” and
“ Laburnum ” (see Appendix S). Both these words have
Tennysonian associations for Mrs Verrall; the spring budding
of the larch and the first flowering of the laburnum always
bringing to her mind Tennyson’s descriptive phrases—both from
In Memoriam—“ When rosy plumelets tuft the larch ” and
“ Laburnums, dropping-wells of fire
In view of what has been said above about “ Celestial
Halcyon Days ” it is perhaps not without significance that the
verse of which the first line is “ where rosy plumelets tuft
the larch ” speaks in its fourth and last line of “ the sea-blue
bird of March ”, i.e. the king-fisher or halcyon ;
and also in view
of future developments to be described later (v. pp. 117-122)
that this verse forms part of In Memoriam, xci, wherein the*
poet invokes his dead friend to appear to him in visible form.
Mrs Verrall said nothing about these impressions of hers
either at the sitting or in her written comments on the record
of it which she sent to J. G. P. They were, however, noted
by her in her diary on February 2.
Allusions in Mrs Verrall’s Script to the Test-Q,uestion.
We now come to the consideration of definite references to
the subject of the test-question in Mrs Verrall’s script and
in Mrs Piper’s trance. AA^e begin, following chronological order,
with those in Airs A^errall’s script, and consider first the
statements of her script, and next her interpretation of those
statements.
There were, as might have been expected, allusions in her
script, during the months of February and Alarch, to subjects
1 In the same way the first leafage of the elm ami the first singing of the
thrush recall to her Browning’s: “That the lowest boughs and the brushwood
sheaf Round the elm-tree bole are in tiny leaf”, and his “wise thrush”.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 113
associated more or less definitely in her mind with the three
Greek words. Thus, on February 12, the script had:
The voyage of Maoldune faery lands forlorn and noises of
the western sea thundering noises of the
western sea.
It is about Merlin and Arthur’s realm—Merlin’s prophetic
vision—‘all night long mid thundering noises of the
western sea’ and how he would not go —the passing of
Arthur.
And then the island valley of Avilion where blows not any
wind nor ever falls the least light —no not that but
you have the sense—there falls no rain nor snow nor
any breath of wind shakes the least leaf.
I will try to get the idea elsewhere conveyed—but it is
hard and I know I have failed before. Why will you
not put the signature 1 Surely you know now that it is
not you. FWHM.
The allusion to Tennyson’s Mortc d'Arthur was recognised
by Mrs Verrall and seemed not inappropriate. Indeed, the
association in her mind of the two topics, Plotinus’s waveless
calm and Tennyson’s poetry, may well have been responsible for
the appearance of the “ valley of Avilion where blows not
any wind”.^
Again, on Feb. 25, the script, which opened with an
indication that a cross-correspondence was intended (cf. p. 270),
went on to refer to another passage in Tennyson suggestive
of a heavenly calm :
—
I stretch my hand across the vapourous space the interlunar
space—twixt moon and earth—where the Gods of Lucretius
cpmft' their nectar. Do you not understand 1
The lucid interspace of world and -world—Well that is bridged
by the thought of a friend, bridged before for your passage,
but to-day for the passage of any that will Avalk it, not
in hope but in faith.
1 “ Faery lands forlorn” is used as the title of a poem by F. W. H. Myers
(Fragments of Prose and Poetry), which contains the phrases : “that heaven-high
vault serene”, and “unearthly calms”. This may account for the appearance
of the words “faery lands forlorn” in the script.
H
114 J. G. Piddington. [part
This script claimed to come from Eector. The actual lines
of Tennyson, based upon the famous passage in the third
book of Lucretius, run as follows
:
“ The Gods, who liaunt
The lucid interspace of world and world.
Where never creeps a cloud, or moves a wind,
Nor ever falls the least white star of snow,
Nor ever lowest roll of thunder moans.
Nor sound of human sorrow mounts to mar
Their sacred everlasting calm ! And such,
Not all so fine, nor so divine a calm,
Not such nor all unlike it, man may gain
Lettin" his own life qo.”
O O
In the course of an investigation quite unconnected with
this experiment, Mrs Verrall on February 20 had come
across a passage of Catullus which reminded her of some lines
from Pii Memoriam reminiscent of it. This led her to re-read
In MemorianG on or about February 2 6. Again, on the morning
of February 26 IMrs Verrall learnt that in her daughter’s
script’ of February 25 there had been a quotation from
Browning’s Asolando. These two facts are mentioned in view
of what followed in Mrs Yerrall’s script.
On February 20 the script had its first definite statement
about avTo? ovpaioi aKv/uLcov as follows :
—
avTus otSpai'os dKVjiMv. I think I have made him [probably
“Rector”] understand but the best reference to it will
be made elsewhere, not Mrs Piper at all. I think I
have got some words from the poem written down—if
not stars and satellites, another phrase will do as well.
And may there be no moaning at the bar—my Pilot
face to face.
The last poems of Tennyson and Browning should be com-
pared. There are references in her writing to both—
Helen’s I mean.
^ For Mrs VerraU's knowledge of In Memoriam, see below p. 117.
^ Miss Verrall knew nothing of the test-question that liad been put to Mrs
Piper, or of the contents of INIrs VerraU’s script.
115
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
The fighter fights one last fight, but there is peace for him
too in the end—and peace for the seer who knew that
after—after—the earthquake, and the fire and the wind,
after, after, in the stillness conies the voice that can be
heard.
Some points in this script are still obscure, but this much
is certain : two lines were quoted from Tennyson’s poem
Crossing the Bar} and it is clearly implied that Tennyson, ‘
the
seer who knew’ (as opposed to Browning ‘the fighter’), was
aware that communion with the unseen took place under
conditions of external calm. At any rate so clear was the
implication to Mrs Amrrall that it suggested to her the idea
that there might be a definite passage in Tennyson about
spiritual communion under such conditions.
At the time the script was produced Mrs AMrrall took “ the
seer who kneiv ” to mean Tennyson ;
she also interpreted
“ after the earthquake and the fire ” etc., as an allusion to the
communion of Moses with God on Alount Sinai ;
though, as
a matter of fact, the allusion is certainly to the appearance
of God to Elijah on Horeb. The significance of the real
allusion and the possible significance of the automatist’s mis-
interpretation of it will be explained later. (See pp. 124-5).
On March 6 the script, written at 10.45 a.m., was more
explicit :
—
I have tried to tell him of the calm the heavenly and
earthly calm but I do not think it is clear. I think you
would understand if you could see the record. Tell me
wdien you have understood.
Calm is the sea
—
and in my heart if calm at all, if any calm, a calm despair.
That is onl}" part of the answer—just as it is not the final
thought. The symphony does not close upon despair
—
but on harmony. So does the poem. AVait for the last
word.
This script, then, which was signed “ Tuus ”
—a signature
often used in j\Irs AMrrall's script to mean Myers—definitely
^The actual lines are: “And may there be no moaning at the bar, when I
put out to sea” aud “I hope to see my Pilot face to face, when I have crost
the bar.”
116 J. G. Pidclington. [part
said that an attempt had been made to tell “ him ” ^ of the
“ heavenly and earthly calm ”, and that this would be recognised
by Mrs Verrall when she saw “the record”—the record, that is,
of a Piper-sitting. Then by means of a textual quotation
:
“ And in my heart, if calm at all, If any calm, a calm
despair ” : reference was made to the ‘
calm of despair ’
of an
early section of In Mcmoriam (xi), with the comment that
that was not the final thought of the poem. To say that the
‘
calm of despair ’
of In Mcmoriam was not the final thought
is to imply that in the poem is another calm, not of despair,
which is the final thought.
Finally, on March 11, Mrs Verrall’s script combined allu-
sions to Plato and Tennyson with phrases about “ unseen or
lialfseen companionship ”, “ voiceless communing and unseen
Presence felt ” in such a way as to suggest that both Plato
and Tennyson were aware of supersensuoirs modes of com-
munication. The language of this script is reminiscent of the
last stanza of F. W. H. Alyers’s Stanzas on Mr Watts’ Collected
Works.
A copy of it is given in Appendix e.
'“Him” or “lie” is used eleven times in Mrs Verrall's script during the
period under review without explicit indication of who is meant. In
five instances it clearly means one of the group of spirit collaborators who are
engaged in influencing the automatist’s writing ;
and in one of these five
instances it seems to point to Rector as the particular collaborator. In two
instances it might apply either to Rector or to J. G. P. ;
once only does it
seem certainly to refer to J. G. P., and twice it refers to an indefinite person,
who is neither a communicating spirit nor J. G. P.
The words “I have tried to tell him of the calm” etc. might mean: “I,
Myers, have tried to tell J. G. P. through Mrs Piper ” ;
but more probably
they are intended to mean: “I, Myers, have tried to tell Rector of the calm
etc. in order that he may express my message clearly through Mrs Piper ”.
Thrice at least, if not oftener, it is stated that Myersp caught Rector between
two trances and gave him a word to be repeated through Mrs Piper: “ Abt
Vogler” in one instance (sitting of April ‘24), “Homer’s Iliad” (sitting of
April .30) and “Plotinus” (sitting of May 6). I imagine that attention was
thus drawn to this particular modus operandi in order to indicate that when
some specially important or difficult word has to be conveyed to Rector for
reproduction in Mrs Piper’s script it is easier to convey it at some time other
than that during which Rector is actually engaged as amanuensis.
Note hy J. G. P.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Axitomatisms. 117
Mrs Yerrall’s Interpretation of her Script.
The continued references in her script to Tennyson, the
introduction of In Memoriam and especially the recurrence (on
March 11) of Tennyson’s name in connexion with communion
with the unseen, led Mrs A^errall not only to believe that
there was a more definite connexion between Tennyson’s In
Memoriam and the passage from Plotinus than she had
hitherto recognised, but also to read the poem again in the
hope of tracing it. Her knowledge of In Memormm dated
back many years to the days of her girlhood, when she was
wholly ignorant of Greek. Though exceedingly familiar with
the poem itself she had made no detailed study of it, had
read no commentary on it, nor had she ever read any Life of
Tennyson.^ But now on re-reading In Memoriam in the light
of the suggestions thrown out by her script, she was at once
struck with the resemblance in language as well as in thought
between the stanzas (sections xciv—v) which describe the
poet’s trance and its antecedent conditions and the passage in
the fifth book of the Enncadcs where Plotinus lays down the
antecedent conditions desirable for ecstasy—the passage namely
^ In the Memoir of Tennyson by his son is a letter addressed to the author
by Myers, which opens thus : —
•
“You have asked me, knowing well what pleasure the request would give
me, to send you a few words, not of formal criticism, but of expression of
intimate feeling as to your father's work ;
—your father, a greater man than
whom I have never looked and shall never look upon. You tell me to
approach the subject, ‘
not from the side of Plotinus, but from the side of
Virgil.’ I understand what you mean. On your father’s prophetic message,
as I must deem it, I have already said my say ;
and the other point at which
my sympathy was deepest was iu our common veneration for Virgil.”
Mrs Verrall came across this letter, as noted in her diary, on May 18,
1907, when she for the first time read the Memoir of Tennyson by Hallam,
Lord Tennyson.
The letter suggests that Tennyson may have talked with Myers about the
influence of Plotinus on his thought and writings.
Since writing the above I came across a footnote to a passage in Myers’s
Modern Poets and Cosmic Law (p. 168) which states that the line taken in
his essay Tennyson as Prophet—in which stress is laid on the affinity between
Tennyson and Plotinus—was based iu part upon Tennyson’s own conversation.
Note by J. G. P.
[part
118 ./. G. Piddington.
whicli contains the words cwto? ovpavo<i ukv/j-oov and which
is translated in the second vohune of Hv/nmn Pcrsoncdity.
Further investigation showed that though commentators on
Tennyson have pointed out the analogy between his trance and
that of Plotinus, it had not hitherto been noted that the
antecedent conditions of external calm are postulated by both,
and that the actual language of Tennyson closely resembles
that of Plotinus. Mrs Yerrall’s investigations were subse-
quently recorded in a paper published in The Modern Language
PtevicxD for July 1907, which the courtesy of the Editor has
enabled me to reproduce here.
\Tdeiyeinted from die Modern Language Review. Pol. II. No. 4.
July 1907.]
A Possible Peminiscence of Plotinus in Tennyson.
i\Iore than one commentator has drawn the attention of
readers of In Memoriam, xcv, to the similarity between the
experience of the poet as there described and that of Plotinus,
as recorded by his disciple Porphyry and by himself in the
Enncadcs (Enn. iv, viii, 1 ;
vi, ix, 9, 10, 11). But, so far as
I am aware, no one has noticed the close resemblance between
the conditions which accompany the trance of the poet in In
Mernoriam and those which are prescribed by Plotinus for the
production of trance or ecstacy—a resemblance which appears
to be more than accidental.
In the fifth book of the Enneades (v, i, 2, 3, 4) Plotinus
demands certain antecedent conditions for the soul that would
find communion with the Great Soul. Before contemplation
of the Great Soul, the individual soul must be freed from
deception and every kind of beguilement and be in a state
of peace. But not only must its own mental and bodily
surroundings be peaceful ;
the surrounding external world must
also be at peace. ‘The earth must be calm, the sea calm,
and the air, and the very heaven itself without a wave.’ ^
- Reading with Kirchhoff aKij/xiov. There is some disagreement as to the exact
text of this passage, but none as to its meaning.
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms. 119
The trance of In Mcmoriarn and its preceding conditions are
described in sections xc—xcv, which, as Mr Bradley ^ points
out, form ‘
a group of closely connected sections on the present
communion or contact of the living and the dead. It opens
with the expression of desire for such communion, and closes
with the description of an experience in which this desire
seems to be fulfilled.’ The poet after calling on his friend
to come back (xc), to come back in visible form (xci), rejects
the wish upon refiexion (xcii), but desires a direct contact of
soul and soul (xciii). Then in the next section (xciv), he
demands that the spirit desiring communion with the dead be
in a state of internal calm, and in the opening of section xcv
he lays emphasis on the external calm of the evening and
night as appropriate precedent conditions of trance.
Thus, in xciv, he writes
:
In vain shalt thou, or any, call
The spirits from their golden day,
Except, like them, thou too canst say,
My spirit is at peace with all.
They haunt the silence of the breast.
Imaginations calm and fair.
The memory like a cloudless air,
The conscience as a sea at rest
:
and again, in xcv, he speaks of
:
calm that let the tapers burn
Unwavering: not a cricket chirr’d:
O
The brook alone far-off was heard,
and in his own note ^ on this passage Tennyson says :
‘
It
was a marvellously still night, and I asked my brother
Charles to listen to the brook, which we had never heard so
far-off before.’ ^
' A Commentary on Tennyson’s In Memoriam, by A. C. Bradley, 2nd Edition,
pp. 184-192.
^ See In Memoriam annotated by the author, p. 256.
The whole of section xcv should be read as it contains other passages
emphasising the external calm. Mote by J.G.P.~\
120 J. G. Piddington. [part
Then follows the description of the ecstatic condition :
And all at once it seem’d at last
The living soul was flash’d on mine,
And mine in this was wound, and whirl’d
About empyreal heights of thought.
And came on that which is, and caught
The deep pulsations of the world,
jTloniaii music measuring out
The steps of Time—the shocks of Chance
—
The blows of death.
Nor is this all ;
a similar correspondence between external
and internal surroundings is suggested when he tells of the
o OO
passing of the condition
:
At length my trance
Was cancell’d, strikeu thro’ with doubt;
the termination, that is to say, and the doubt came with the
uncertainty of the morning dusk, and with the rising of the
breeze of dawn ;
Till now the doubtful dusk reveal’d
The knolls once more where, couch’d at ease.
The white kine glimmer’d, and the trees
Laid their dark arms about the field ;
And suck’d from out the distant gloom
A breeze began to tremble o’er
The large leaves of the sycamore.
And fluctuate all the still perfume.
And gathering freshlier overhead.
Rock’d the full-foliaged elms and swung
The heavy-folded rose, and flung
The lilies to and fro, and said
‘
The dawn, the dawn ’
and died away.
Admitting that Tennyson, like Plotinus, associated with the
trance-condition familiar to him ^ circumstances of external calm
^ ‘
I have often had that feeling of being whirled up and rapt into the Great
Soul.’ Annotated eddtion, in 257.
LTii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 121
as well as of iuternal peace, it remains to consider whether
this is more than ati independent agreement of sensation. The
question hardly admits of a certain answer without evidence,
which I have not found, as to Tennyson’s reading. But the
following considerations perhaps suggest that the resemblance
is not accidental and that the writings of Plotinus were not
unknown to Tennyson and were consciously or unconsciously
recalled to his memory when he was describing his own similar
experience.
1. There is a certain resemblance between the phraseology
of the above quoted passages from In Memoriam and the
language of Plotinus. The ‘
Hash ’
and the ‘
spirits’ golden
day ’
are paralleled in Plotinus ^
who speaks of ‘
the illuminating
entry (eia-iovcrar kuI eia-Xd/u—ovcrav) of the soul ’
bringing a
‘ golden vision ’ (ypucroei^j/ o\L-(r) and again of the ‘
effulgence
’
(7r€plXaiui.\lnp) surrounding the contemplative soul. The word
‘
.(Bonian
’
^ recurs several times in Plotinus ;
in his trance he
sees that Time is an image of Eternity, ‘
the real ^Eon,’ and
that its three divisions are one,® there being no past, no future,
only ‘
that which is ’
(d orrw? aicor, ov fuiueiTaL yporo? . . . kui
TO ecTTLV ael, kqi oi/Safxov to jmeXXor ... ouSe to TrapeX>]XvOo?).
The calm of earth and heaven desired by Plotinus is directly
expressed in section xcv of In Memoriam ;
the calm of air and
sea appears indirectly in the images of section xciv :
‘
The
memory like a cloudless aAr, the conscience as the sea. at
rest.’
2. The passage of Plotinus describing the required ante-
cedent conditions of ecstasy is unmistakably paraphrased by S.
Augustine in a famous chapter of the Confessions,^ a work with
which it is believed that other passages of In Memoriam show
an acquaintance.^ But there are phrases in In Memoriam and
not in S. Augustine which resemble the phraseology of Plotinus,
and which must therefore have been derived, if derived at all,
^ Enn., V, i, 2-6. -See In Mem,, xcv, above quoted.
® See also In Mem., xxvi, stanza 3, and Mr Bradley’s note thereon.
* Confess., IX, 10: ‘Si cui sileat tumnltus carnis, sileant pliantasiae terrae
et aquarum et aeris, sileant et poll, et ipsa sibi anima sileat, ... attingimus
aeternam Sapientiam super omnia manentem.’
® See In Mem., i, 1 ;
iv, 1 ;
viii, 3; xxvi, 3; Ixx.xv, 16; and illustrative
quotations in Mr Bradley’s Commentary on those passages.
122 J. G. Piddmgton. [part
direct from the original. It is therefore hardly possible that
the allusion in S. Augustine has any direct connexion with
these sections of hi Mcmoriam, though it may have helped to
recall the original passage of Plotinus.
3. It is known that Arthur Plallam was a student of
philosophy and the volume of his Eemains in Verse and Prose
contains passages showing familiarity with the doctrines not
only of Plato but of the Xeo-Platonists.’- That the account
of the ecstasy of Plotinus was known to him in the words of
the author is proved by the appearance in his Essay on Cicero
"
of an allusion in the original Greek to the experience of
Plotinus. ‘
The (puya ,uovov Trpo? /aorop preached by the later
Platonists was not possible for him.’ Plotinus is the ‘
later
Platonist ’
who preaches ‘
the Flight of the One to the One.’
The Enncadcs of Plotinus ends with the description, revealed
to him in ecstasy, of ‘
the life of gods and of godlike and
blessed men, a release from every earthly thought, a life un-
touched by earthly pleasure, the Flight of the One to the
One.’
®
But whether or not we suppose a direct connexion between
Plotinus and Tennyson, it seems probable from the description
in Pn Mcmoriam, sections xciv and xcv, that some importance
was attached by Tennyson to calm as a condition of trance,
and this sentiment is perhaps further reflected in the phrase
of section cxxii ‘
in placid awe,’ which seems to refer to the
earlier experience. This phrase, which has caused difficulty to
.some critics, is certainly more appropriate if the adjective is no
mere descriptive epithet, and if placidity is regarded by
Tennyson, as it was by Plotinus, as an essential condition of
ecstasy.
Margaret de G. Verrall.
The discovery of this close parallelism between Pn Memoriam
and the passage from Plotinus seemed to Mrs Verrall both
intere.sting in itself, and also explanatory of the choice of the
words avTos ovparoi dKOjo-ow by Myers as a motto to his poem
’^Remains, pp. 160, 165, 174.
^Enn., VI, ix, 11.
-Remains, p. 165.
LVII.] 123
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
ou Tennyson. This poem alludes to Tennyson’s desire for
peace at death as expressed in Crossing the Bar:
“ Once more he rises ;
lulled and still,
Hushed to his tune the tideways roll ;
These waveless heights of evening thrill
^Vith voyage of the summoned Soul.”
{Fragments of Prose and Poetry, p. 117.)
Hitherto Mrs Verrall had seen in the motto from Plotinus
only an allusion to Tennyson’s own desire that there migdit be
no moaning at the bar when he put out to sea, and to its
fulfilment at the time of his death.^ But a much deeper
significance attaches to the choice of the motto, when it is
recognised that Tennyson himself, like Plotinus, desired con-
ditions of external peace before attaining in life the trance
condition, in which he felt as though he had communion
with the unseen world.
It thus appears that after the test-question had been put to
Myersp a series of communications by Myersy furnished a new
and cogent explanation of Avhy Frederic Myers had associated
the words aurd? ovparo? uKujuuor with Tennyson. No such
explanation had ever before consciously occurred to Mrs Verrall.
She knew, of course, that the words of Plotinus had been
associated by Myers with Tenny^son because they formed the
motto of his poem on Tennyson ;
and she supposed that he
had chosen them for this purpose simply because the lines in
Tennyson’s Crossing the Bar:
“And may there be no moaning of the bar.
When I put out to sea.
But such a tide as moving seems asleep.
Too strong for sound and foam.
When that which drew from out the boundless deep
Turns again home.”
had reminded him of Plotinus’s calm of earth and sea and air
and Heaven which favours communion with the Great Soul.
^ See contemporary accounts in newspapers, which were the source of Mrs
Verrall’s know'ledge of the atmospheric conditions at the time of Tennyson's
death.
124 [part
J. G, Picldmgton.
That such was one reason for the association is made
perfectly clear by the poem itself. But neither in the ])oem
itself nor elsewhere in his writings is there a hint that Myers
associated the passage of Plotinus with Tennyson because of
the connection between it and sections xciv and xcv of In
Memoriam.
On March 12 Mrs Yerrall made a detailed entry in her
diary recording her discovery of the ])arallelism between
sections xciv and xcv of In Memoriam and the passage
from Plotinus, and her belief that this parallelism explained
why Myers had associated kul avTog ovpavM ukvixwv with
Tennyson (see Appendix On March 13 she brought a
summary of this entry in her diary with detailed explanations
and references to London, and on her arrival at 20 Hanover
Square handed it in a closed envelope to Miss Johnson for
transmission to J. G. P. before she had any knowledge whether
any attempt, other than that of January 30, had been made
by the Pi|)er trance-personalities to answer her test-question.
One small point remains which needs explanation. Mrs
Verrall, it will be remembered, took the last lines of her
script of Feb. 26 to be an allusion to Moses’ communion with
God on Sinai. This inter|)retation she arrived at before she
had begun to suspect that there was any connexion between
avTo? oilpard? uKvp-wv and In Memoriam. Alter she discovered
the connexion she considered this supposed allusion to be the
first emergence in her script of In Memoriam, her reason being
that the last lines of section xcvi of that poem run thus :
—
“ And Power was in him in the night,
MTiich makes the darkness and the light.
And dwells not in the light alone.
But in the darkness and the cloud.
As over Sinai’s peaks of old,
M'hile Israel made their gods of gold,
Altho’ the trumpet blew so loud.”
Now, as already stated, the allusion in the script must be
to Elijah ^ on Horeb, not to Moses on Sinai, for on Sinai there
1 It is, perhaps, not without significance that “ Elijah ” was announced by
the trance-personalities during the sitting of May 7 as the subject of a
cross-correspondence experiment with Mrs Holland.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 125
was neither wind nor stillness : on the contrary, “ Moses spake
and God answered” “when the voice of the trumpet sounded
long, and waxed louder and louder
Strangely enough neither at the time nor at any subsequent
time did Mrs Vei’rall recognise that the allusion in her script
was to Elijah. Her failure to do so is all the more curious
because Elijah’s communing with God is an apt illustration of
intercourse with the unseen occurring when nature is at peace,
whereas the case of Moses is in that respect inapt ;
and, more-
over, the Epilogue of Human Personality, which she read
carefully about the end of April 1907, contains the c^uotation
(Vol. II. p. 276) “After the tempest a still small voice”.
Can her misinterpretation be accounted for ?
Perhaps it may be in some such fashion as this
:
The scribe on Feb. 26 was endeavouring to convey to the
automatist two distinct though allied ideas: (1) Elijah’s com-
munion with God in the calm that followed upon the “great
and strong wind” and the earthquake and the fire; (2) Moses’
communion with God on Mount Sinai ;
the first as an illus-
tration of communion with the Divine during external calm,
the second as an illusti’ation of communion with the Divine
and also as an indirect reference to In Memoriam. The first
idea got expressed in the script, the second failed to gain
written expression but reached the automatist’s consciousness.
Mrs Verrall would not under ordinary circumstances have con-
fused the two incidents, but her normal mind was influenced
by her subconscious mind (which had received and perhaps
grasped the importance of the second impression) and so mis-
took the recorded for the unrecorded impression : a mistake
the more easily committed because of the analogy between
the two.
First Definite Answers to the Test-Question in
Mrs Piper’s Trance.
We return now to the other side of the matter.
The references to the subject of the test-C[uestion in Mrs
Piper’s trance were as follows :
—
On Feb. 6 J. G. P. read to the trance-personalities a letter
126 J. G. PidcUvgton. [part
from Mrs Verrall, in which, after saying that it seemed to her
that on January 30 there was evidence of an understanding on
the part of Myersp of her question, she asked for a clearer
statement of wliat the Greek words recalled to him. (See
Appendix ;/.)
On March 6 Mj'ersp in the course of announcing various
cross-cori'espondences which he claimed to have transmitted to
Mrs Verrall gave without explanation three words :
“ Cloudless
Skv
Horizon
”
followed the phrase: “a cloudless sky beyond the horizon”.
(See Appendix 6.) In the waking-stage Mrs Piper uttered the
words: “moaning at the bar when I put out to sea”. A little
later she pronounced the name “Arthur Hallam ”
C then almost
directly said it again: “ Arthur Hallam. Good-bye. Margaret”,
Margaret being Mi's Verrall’s Christian name. (For the use of
“Margaret” to indicate a cross-cori’espondence with Mrs Verrall
cf. pp. 218 and 27S, and Proc. Part LY. p. 313.) Finally she
spoke this unfinished sentence: “There was some man Arthur
Hallam. Myers says it was he—he about”. (See Appendix £.)
Though no claim was made to have given a translation of
the words of the test question in the phrase “ cloudless sky
beyond the horizon” it would be very difficult to suppose that
chance had furnished so satisfactory a para])hrase as this of
acTO? ovpavo? aKu/uucp ;
but ])receded as the phrase was by
references to Mrs Verrall and followed by tlie quotation trom
Crossing the Bar and the name “Arthur Hallam”, it is prac-
tically impos-sible to attribute its appropriateness to chance.
Moreover, this para])hrase seems to indicate knowledge not only
of the meaning of the three words of the test-question but also
of their original context. The passage in the original is
:
j/crcyo? yUei' yi/, //Vcyo? de OaXacraa kul ai]p kq'i avTO? ovpavo^
aKvp-wV- i.e. “calm be the earth, and calm the sea, and the air
{ahp) and the heaven (oi'pai'Ui) itself waveless.” d')]p is the
lower atmosphere which surrounds the earth; oi’pard? is the
1 These words when first uttered wei'e heard not by J. G. P. but by Miss
Newton who knew nothing whatever about the test-question.
127
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
sky that lies beyond the dhp, the vault of heaven. We often
use “sky” in the sense of dhp, for instance in such a phrase
as; “That’s a very storiny-looking sky”. It would seem, then,
as though by adding “ beyond the horizon ” to “ cloudless sky
”
Myersp sought to imply that by “sky” ovpapo? not dijp was
meant.
On March 13 Myensp said: “I saw Mrs Verrall and gave
her a sitru like this (a rouo-h drawino’ was then made) and
said I have crossed it ”. J. G. P. then asked what the drawing
represented, and in reply the word “BAPt” was written in
capital letters. Myersp at once added: “I thought she might
get a glimpse of my understanding of her Greek ” : a remark
which to J. G. P. in his foolishness seemed utter nonsense.
Even the explanation of the drawing as a “Bar” failed to
remind J. G. P. of the quotation from Crossing the Bar in
Mrs Verrall’s script of Feb. 2G ;
so from him the trance-per-
sonalities received neither hint nor encouragement on this
point.
Later in the sitting J. G. P. read aloud an extract from a
letter of Mrs Verrall’s written on iMarch 12, in which she .said
that since her last sitting Avith i\lrs Piper on Jan. 3U she had
learnt from her own script the reason why af-b? ovparo? dhcupon'
had had certain associations for IMyei's ;
that she had before
known the associations but not the reason for them;^ and that
she understood the allusion to larches and laburnum. hio
further indications as to Mrs Yerrall’s interpretations were
given either to the entranced Mrs Piper, or to J. G. P., who
was absolutely in the dark and received no enlightenment
whatever from Mrs Verrall’s letter. (See Appendix k.)
Up to this time J. G. P. had not seen Mrs Terrall’s script
of March 11 (Appendix e) with its combination of Plato,
Tennyson and, Myers, or her notes as to the connection
betAveen the trance-conditions of Plotinus and Tennyson. He
had, it is true, seen the script of Feb. 26 (v. p. 114) Avith
its reference to Crossing the Bar, and the script of March 6
1 That is, she knew the associations with Plotinus and that Myers had
used Plotinus’s words as a motto for his poem on Tennyson ;
but she did not
know or suspect why he had so used them until her script showed her the
connection between them and In Memoriain xciv and xcv.
1*28 [part
J. G. Piddmgton.
(v. p. 115) with its quotation from Pi MernGviam, but he had
not recognised tliat it was a quotation from this poem, nor,
indeed, that it was a quotation at alld
Towards the end of this sitting of March 13 J. G. P., in
reply to a question asked by Myersp, admitted that Mrs Verrall
had written “ may there be no moaning at the bar ”, though
she had not drawn a bar. Myersp then immediately reminded
^ Whatever the source of the knowledge displayed in Mrs Piper’s trance
concerning the meaning of and the associations connected with ai’ros ovpavoi
aKVjxwv may have been, it was certainly not my mind. I knew, of course,
what Kal and avrds and oi’pavos meant as individual words, but I did not know
what a.Kvp.wv meant : a lack of knowledge which would not have been surprising
in the case of a far better Greek scholar than myself, as the wmrd is a rare
one. I have never read any Plotinus ; I did not remember, though I must
once have know'll, that the second volume of Human Personality contained a
translated extract from the Enneades of Plotinus ; and I did not know that
the Greek words of Mrs Verrall's test-question formed the motto of Myei’s’s
poem on Tennyson. I possess no copy of Fragments of Prose and Poetry, and
though I believe I may once or twice have had the S.P. R. Library copy of the
book in my hands and glanced at a few jiages of the prose, I had not read any
of the poems for the good and sufficient reason that, though an admirer of
Myers’s prose-style, I fail to appreciate him as a poet. I had, moreover,
piurposely refrained from attempting to make out or guess at the meaning of
the Greek words of Mrs Verrall’s question. When the words “Cloudless
sky beyond the horizon” were written in the Piper trance, I guessed that they
were a translation or paraphrase of auros ovpavbi a.Kvp.wu, and I surmised tliat
it aKup-wr could really bear the sense of “cloudless” it must be a metaphorical
sense, and that the original significance must be “without W'aves ”. I verified
my guess a few hours after the sitting by consulting a Liddell and Scott,
which, however, gave me no clue to the author of the words of the test-
question, as the reference to Plotinus was not given in the edition which I
used, nor is it, I believe, in any edition. Neither the reference to “Larches”
and “Laburnum” in the trance, nor that in Mrs Verrall’s letter read at the
sitting of March 13, conveyed any hint to my mind. I have read In Memoriam
often, and am familiar with the two different passages in which these words
occur, but the two words as conjoined in the trance did not remind me of
either of these passages. As stated above, I had seen Mrs Verrall’s script
of Feb. '26, but, if I thought about it at all, I certainly never connected the
cpiotation from Crossing the Bar with ai)ros oi'paubs aKvpoiv. I had seen the script
of March 0, but it never entered my head that the latter half of it had anything
to do with Mrs Verrall’s test-question, and, I repeat once more, I did not
realise that it contained a quotation from In 2Iernoriam.
To suppose that subconsciously I grasped the real significance and connection
of these oracular scripts and passed my knowledge on to Mrs Piper is too
strained a hypothesis for me to have any patience with. If the knowledge
shown in Mrs Piper’s trance was obtained from any living person, it was from
Mrs Verrall. Note by J. G. P.
A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 120
Lvri.]
J. G. P. that those words, as also the name “Arthur Hallam”,
had been previously (i.e. on IVlarch 6) given by him in the
waking-stage of Mrs Piper’s trance ^
;
and he now explained
spontaneously that he had given the cpmtation and the name
in order “to connect the words with its author’s individuality”.^
The fact that Grossing the Bar and Arthur Hallam were
first mentioned in Mrs Piper’s trance on March G is of great
importance; for on March G Mi's Verrall had not grasped the
significance of the combination in her script of cpiotations
from In Memoriam and Grossing the Bar in connection with
avTo? ovpavo<i aKVfxwv, and did not do so until IMarch 12. If,
then, the references to Crossing the Bar and Arthur Hallam
in the trance of March G are to be attributed to telepathy
from IMrs Verrall, one must assume either that Mrs Verrall’s
subconsciousness had worked out the connection between In
Memoriam and calrd? ovpavog uKi'pcov some five or six days
before she normally grasped it—a pei'fectly reasonable hypo-
thesis; or, if she had not subconsciously grasped the connection,
that by some odd chance the allusions to Grossing the Bar and
In Memoriam in 3Irs Verrall’s script got telepathically trans-
ferred to IMrs Pipei’, and emerged by another happy accident
‘Note that “Arthur Hallam” was first uttered in the waking-stage of Mrs
Piper’s trance within two hours of the time when the quotation from In
Memoriam was written in Mrs VerralPs script, and accordingly before there
could have been anything to suggest In Memoriam or Arthur Hallam to
J. G. P.’s mind.
Note also the anxiety of Myersp to bring out the fact that he had previously
uttered the words “Arthur Hallam” through Mrs Piper. Not vain repetition
this ;
but the vigilance, real or admirably simulated, of a trained experimenter,
as anxious as Mr Podmore himself to eliminate thought-transference from the
sitter.
‘‘It is uncertain what is meant by “the words”, but they may refer to the
quotation from Crossing the Bar. Or, it may be that the phrase is .an attempt
to explain the connection between “I drew a bar and said I have crossed it”
and “Arthur Hallam,” i.e. between the two poems, Crossing the Bar and In
Memoriam. Or, again, by “the words” may be meant the Greek words
ai’iTos oi'pavos aKvpwv, which had been quoted earlier in the sitting in the letter
addressed b}' Mrs Verrall to the trance-personalities and read aloud to them
by .J. G. P. ;
if so, the phrase w'ould mean that the quotation from Crossing
the Bar was made in order to connect the words avrhs ovpavbs a.Kvp.011/ with
Tennyson, who w^as both the author of Crossing the Bar and the subject of
the poem of Myers’s which bore /cal avros ovpavhs a.Kvp.u}v as its motto.
I
130 [part
J- G. Piddington.
at the same sitting at which a paraphiase of acTo? ovpavo<^
aKv/nwv (“ Cloudless sky beyond the horizon ”) was first given
in Mrs Piper’s trance-script.
J. G. P. received Mrs Verrall’s note on her discover}’ of the
connection between Plotinus and Tennyson’s In Meonoriam
after the conclusion of the Piper sitting of March 13. Mrs
Verrall did not know that there had been any allusion to afro?
ovparog uKvpon> in the trance until after the sitting of March 13,
by which time her detailed note was in J. G. P.’s hands.
To sum up :
—It appears that, in the absence of all intercourse
between Mrs Pijjer and Mrs Verrall after Jan. 30, on the one
hand the “Myers” of Mrs Verrall’s script on Feb. 26 and
March G, resj^ectively, connected Grossing the Bar and In
Memormm with avrog ovpavog aKi'p-on'
;
while on the other
hand the “Myers” of IMrs Piper’s trance on March 6 alluded
to Grossing the Bar and mentioned the name “Arthur Hal lam ”
in close conjunction with Mrs Verrall’s Christian name ;
claimed
on March 13 to have given to Mrs Verrall a quotation from
Grossing the 13ar, and further explained that he thought this
reference would make Mrs Verrall understand in part what
significance the Greek words had for him.
o
If strict chronological sequence were to be observed, at this
point should be inserted the whole of the subject-matter of
Section XX, entitled “ Azure and Horizon ”
;
but the develop-
ments tliere described are so indirectly related to the central
incident that to introduce an account of them here, though
it would preserve the chronological order, woirld interrupt the
exposition of the main theme and have the disti-acting effect
of an unwieldy parenthesis.
The Test-Question repeated and further answers to
IT given in the tkance.
The sittino; of March 13 was the last of which J. G. P had
charge ;
after that date Mrs Sidgwick took over the manage-
ment of the sittings, and from that time to April 24 the
trance-personalities did not explicitly add anything by way of
answer to Mrs Veri'all’s question, though, as will be seen on
reference to pp. 133-4, it seems not unlikely that some words
131
].vil] a Series of Concordant AiUomaMsms.
uttered in the waking-stage of the trance of April 8 indicate
a first attem|.)t on tlie part of Myersp to connect airo? ovparog
dKvfjLwv with Plotinus. So far, then, though the Greek words
had been paraphrased and knowledge shown of what may be
called the Tennyson group of associations, no explicit allusion
had been made in the trance to the other g)-oup of as.sociations,
namely those with Plotinus and the second volume of Human
Personality
.
It was therefore thought desirable to revive interest in
the matter by introducing Mrs Verrall again as a sitter.
Accordingly she attended a sitting on April 29, and in the
course of it she repeated to Myersp the question about ai’T09
oupai'og uKup-wv, and, after explaining that one group of associa-
tions and the meaning of the words had been made clear,
asked for an allusion to the second group of associations and
to the name of the Greek authoi' of the words. In making
this suggestion Mrs Verrall took care to mention no distinctive
names, but to use only the general term “ associations ”, so
that, in this repetition of the question, no clue was given as
to which statements by MyerSp had led Mi’s Verrall to the
conclusion that her question had been understood and partly
answered.
At this sitting allusion was made to the words “azure”
“ a blue sea ”. The words were mis-read by Mrs Verrall and
were unintelligible to her even when deciphered by Miss Johnson,
as she knew nothing of the succe.ssful cross-correspondence of
April 15 and 17 described in Section XX.
There was much confusion in this sitting, most of it due
|)robably to Mrs Verrall’s difficulty in deciphering the script.
It seems, however, fairly cleai' that, after the allusion to
“azure” and “blue sea”, for the first time a connection was
suggested by Myersp between the three Greek words and
“ halcyon days ”
;
whence it may be inferred that the trance-
personality had grasped not only the general meaning of the
Greek words but also their connection with earlier passages in
Mrs Verrall’s own scidpt. But still there was no mention of
Plotinus or Humani Personality, and no light seemed to be
thrown on the subject by a sudden and at the time inexpli-
cable allusion, in the midst of the discussion, just before the
132 -/. G. Piddington. [part
refereuce to “azure” and “blue sea”, to “Swedenborg”, followed
by a similarly disconnected allusion to “ St. Paul ”, and later
to “Dante” (see Appendix X).
At the sitting held on the next day, April 30, Miss
Johnson was pre.sent at first alone, and then later Mrs. Verrall
joined her. To Miss Johnson when alone it was plainly stated
Myersp that his “ reply to the three Greek words ” was
that tliey reminded him of “ Homer’s Illiard ” (sic). This
statement was repeated to Mrs Verrall on her entering the
room, thus :
(Rector communicating) Good morning, I am glad to greet
you again.
Mrs V. Thank j'ou, good morning.
I have seen Mr Xlyers and he gave me his reply to your
Greek words and I gave them to the other lady before
you appeared Tell her to speak them. All right.
HOMER’S I L L I A R D.
This seemed to Mrs X^errall mere nonsense, and suggested
random gues.sing on the part of Mrs Piper, but she did not
express any criticism. Later in the sitting MyerSp claimed to
have completed the answer to the Greek question, reminding
Mrs X^errall that she had asked for the author’s name and
saying that this reminded him of “ Socratese ” (sic) as well as
of “ Homer’s Illiard ” (see Ap}>endix ju).
This again seemed mere nonsense. No association of ideas
could be traced between Plotinus on the one hand, and
Socrates or Homer’s Iliad on the other. Certainly Mrs Verrall
saw none at the moment, nor was any connexion perceived or
suspected by either Miss Johnson, Mrs. Sidgwick, or J. G. P.,
when soon after the sitting they discussed the record.
But latei' in the day a dim im])ression came to Mrs Ven'all,
aftei' thinking over what had been said at the sitting, that
in the second volume of Human Personality, close to the
passage about the vision of Plotinus in which occurs the trans-
lation of the woids ku\ cn’rof oiiparb? aKuniccp was an allusion
to the famous vision of Socrates, in which the woman of
Phthia addressed him in a line from the Iliad. An unmistak-
LVII.] 133
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
able allusion in Mrs Verrall’s own script of the next day,
IMay 1, to the “ Eagle soaring above the tomb of Plato ”
—
a phrase descriptive of Plotinus quoted in the ninth chapter
of Human Personality—led her to investigate further, with
the followino- results
:
o
In the last twm chapters of Humctn Persoimlity (pp.
259-292), twice, and twice only, is the word Vision used
;
the first time (pp. 273-4) of the Vision wliich came to
Socrates in the prison-house, wlien the “fair and white-
robed woman ” had “ given to Achilles’ words ”—“ On the
third day hence thou comest to Phthia’s fertile shore ”
—
“a more sacred meaning’’; and the second time (p. 291)
of the Vision of Plotinus. Moreover, to the Epilogue of Human
Personcdity, in wliich the Vision of Plotinus is described, is
prefixed a quotation in Greek from Plato’s Krito, the passage
quoted being that in which the story of Socrates’ Alsion of
the “ fair and wlrite-robed tvoman ” is told. The line from
the Iliad (II. ix. 3G3) spoken by the woman in the Ansion
of Socrates is therefore Cjiioted in Greek (p. 278) and trans-
lated (p. 274) in the second volume of Human Personcdity
,
but on neither occasion is there any reference either to the
poem from \vhich it comes—-the Iliad—or to the author of
that poem—Homer. It would not therefore have been possible
for anyone but a Greek scholar familiar with Greek literature
to discover from these pages of Humctn Personcdity any
connexion between the A^ision of Socrates and Homer’s Iliad,
even if he had sufficient familiarity with those pages to be
reminded of the Vision of Socrates by an allusion to the Alsion
of Plotinus.
But the reference to Homer’s Iliad on April 30 was not
the first that had been made to it in Mrs Piper’s trance.
The word “ Iliad ” had been pronounced in the waking-stage
of the trance of April 8 in the following context :
—
“They said Elliot. There’s Air Myers and Elliot. Iliad.
Pm glad. Try again. Discourage don’t give me up
try again. Light in West. I'll tell you more. If I
can reach over the bar I’ll repeat this letter. Tout
ensemble.”
1 Tlius written, with a capital V.
134 [part
J. G. Piddington.
The “Elliot” of the record represents in all probability a mis-
hearing or a mispronunciation of “Iliad”. The name “Elliot”
had two distinct associations with Mr Myers, both familiar to
the recorder, Mrs Sidgwick. Consequently it would have been
very easy for her to mistake an indistinctly uttered “ Iliad
”
for “ Elliot There had been nothing whatever in what had
taken place ju’evioirsly at this sitting to suggest either “ Elliot
”
or “Iliad”. No significance has been discovered for “Elliot”;
and none was discovered for “ Iliad ” until cwro? ovpavo^ aKvfxwv
was connected witli “ Homer’s Iliad ” in the trance of April 30.
It will be noticed that this utterance of the solitary word
“Iliad” occurs in close proximity to “Mr Myers”, “Light in
West ” and “ If I can reach over the bar ”. The connection of
ca’To? ovpavo<i ukv/ulow with “ Light in West ” is explained in
section XIX ;
and its connection with Grossing the Bar, to
which the expression “ reach over the bar ” must allude, has
already been explained. It looks then as if the “ Iliad ” uttered
on April 8 was a fir.st attempt to give the associations of the
three Greek words of Plotinus with Human Personality. And
if it was so, it follows that the Plotinian associations began
to emerge in Mrs Piper’s trance three weeks before i\lrs Verrall,
who had not come in contact with Mrs Piper since Jan. 30,
attended the sitting of April 29 for the express purpose of
asking Myers^ to give the name of the author of the Greek
words.
The discovery, that it was not unreasonable for a question
as to the authorship ot the words acTO? ofpard? uKupwr to
recall “ Socrates ” and “ Homer’s Iliad ” to an intelligence
familiar with the concluding chapters of Human Personality,
suggested that in the same source might be found an explana-
tion of the ap|)arently meaningless introduction of the names
of Swedenborg, St. Paul and Dante.
On the same page that contains the phrase, “ the eagle soaring-
above the tomb of I’lato ”, and near the beginning of Myers’s
account of Ecstasy (p. 261), is a commemorative list of the “ strong
sonls who have claimed to feel it”, and among these, after Plotinus
and before Tennyson, are included Swedenborg, St. Paul and
Dante. Anyone who bears in mind this paragraph of Human
Personcdity, with its special emphasis on the work of the
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 135
“ prosaic Swede ”—“ of all earth’s inspired spirits .... the least
divinised, the least lovable .... who has opened the surest
path for men,”—and also the fact that Myers wrote a poem on
St. Paul, will understand why an intelligence endeavouring to
re-collect knowledge once possessed by Frederic Myers should
select from the list in Human Personality the names of two of
those three great Visionaries. Again, Myersp, who had on March
13 connected the words of Plotinus with Crossing the Bar,
connected them on April 29 with St. Paul. The author of
Human Personality had in the Epilogue of that work alluded
to St. Paul, Crossing the Bar and Plotinus, all within a space
of sis lines: “there needs,” he wrote, “no heroism, no sanctity,
to inspire the apostle’s e—iOujuia et^ to uvaXvaai, the desire to
lift our anchor, and sail out beyond the bar ”
;
and three
lines later introduced a translation of a passage from the
Enneacles ^ with the words “ says Plotinus ” (p. 290, section
1013).
Thus, though the name of the author of the Greek words
had not been given, the mention of Swedenborg, St. Paul and
Dante, and more markedly the mention of Socrates and Homer’s
Iliad suggested that the trance-personality was on the right
tack ;
and moreover taking his bearings by landmarks singularly
appropriate for a personality who purports to be the author
of Human Personality.
It is conceivable that the words “ Sa.sia Saisia Francis” given
at the sitting of April 29, just befoi’e the mention of Swedenborg,
St. Paul and “azure a blue sea” (see Appendix X p. 159), were
an unsuccessful attempt to write the name of Francis d’ Assisi
;
who, though not included in the commemorative list given on
p. 261 of Human Personality Vol. II. of the “strong souls
who have claimed to feel” ecstasy, might well have been.
Just as “Larches” and “Laburnum” were given in the trance
within 21 hours of the test-question being first put, so here
Homer’s Iliad, Socrates, Swedenborg, St. Paul and Dante were
given directly after the question was I’epeated. In each case
there was a prompt though imperfect response ;
in each case, as
will be seen later, the imperfect response was in the end satis-
^ The passage iu question is not the one in which the words auros ovpauos
aKVfXiov occur.
13G J. G. Piddington, [part
factorily completed ;
and in each case the pielimiuary response
was cast in a form so remote from that expected by the
questioner that its pertinence was not apprehended at the
time.
On May 1 Mrs Sidgwick reminded Myersp that he had
piomised to reply further to Mrs Verrall’s question about the
meaning and associations of the Greek words. Myei’Sp said
they reminded him of a poem, but that there had been some
confusion, and that he rvould make his answer clearer. (See
Appendix v.)
Completion of the Ansaver in IMrs Piper’s Trance.
To Miss Johnson on May 1 and 2, and to Mrs Sidgwick
on May 3, Mrs. Verrall communicated the suggestion that there
M'ere reminiscences of Human Personality in the Piper sittings
of April 29 and 30, and emphasised the fact that the only
thing now wanted to complete the answer to her question was
the name Plotinus. At the sitting held on May 0 Mrs Sidg-
wick had intended to rejieat the enquiry for the name of
the author of the three Gi'eek words, but was forestalled by
jM}' ersp, who immediately after greeting her, said :
“ Will you
say to Mrs Verrall—Plotinus ”. The last tvord was not deciphered
by Mrs. Sidgwick, and Avas thereupon repeated in large letters^
PLOTINUS. Mrs Sidgwick then asked :
“ What is that ? ”,
and Mj'ersp replied :
'
My answer to autos ouranos okumen”
[sic]. Thus on Ma}^ G was given the one point required to
complete the answer to the question asked by Mrs Verrall on
January 29. Later in the sitting MyerSp claimed that two
cross-coiTespondences had been successfully carried out between
i\Irs Piper and IMrs. Verrall, one dealing with Tennyson and
the other with BrowniugA (See Appendix o)
Final references to the Test-Question in the trance;
AND Conclusion.
The answer was now complete, and subsequent references
to the test-question were apparently meant only to draw the
1 For the Browiiiug correspoiidence see Section VI.
137
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
attention of a new sitter to two of its points. On May 27,
Sir Oliver Lodsfe beinw the sitter, Plotinus was said to be
the name of the author of Mrs Verrall’s Greek words. On
June 2 it was further claimed that directly Mrs Verrall ha.d
put her question Myersp had thougdit of Tennyson. This
remark would seem to refer to the mention of “ larches ” and
“ laburnum ” on Jan. 30. Hitherto in the trance these two
words had not been connected either with the test-question
or with Tennyson. If they are supposed to be so here, it
must not be forgotten that at this time the trance-personalities
knew that Mrs Verrall had understood their allusion to
“larches” and “laburnum” and to Crossing th.e Bar; and
from that knowledge they may have inferred that “ larches
”
and “ laburnum ” had something to do both with uvTog ovpavo?
uKviucop and with Tennyson. Still, if it was an inference, at
any rate it was a correct one. (See Appendix tt.)
The trance-pei’sonalities referred with some pride to the
success of this experiment ;
and well they might, for in the
course of sixteen weeks, from January 29 to May 6, they
succeeded in giving a complete answer to the test question
put by Mrs Verrall. That question, connected b}" Mrs Verrall
with topics mentioned in hei' own earlier script, required for
its complete answer three things
:
1. the meaning of the Greek words,
2. the associations with Tennyson,
3. the associations with Plotinus and Hitman Personality.
Of these the meaning was suggested, and the associations
with Tennyson—in particular with the two poems In Memoriam
and Crossing the Bai'— were given before March 13 without
further communication with Mrs Verrall ;
the associations with
Plotinus and Human Personality were given between April
29 and May 6, after Mrs Verrall had had two further sittings,
and perhaps began to emerge as early as April 8 ;
and
the connexion with Mrs Verrall’s earlier script was recognised
on April 29.
Again, while an explanation—new to Mrs Verrall—of the
connexion between the two groups of associations, Plotinian
and Tennysonian, was given in Mi's Verrall’s script on February
26 and March 11, statements made in Mrs Piper’s trances
J. G. Piddington.
138 [part
of March G and 13 suggest knowledge of this explanation
very forcibly indeed.
It is specially to be noted that the associations of the words
with Tennyson, and in particular with the two poems In
Memoriam and Crossing the Bar, were mentioned in the
trance to J. G. P., who had no knowledge whatsoever as to
the authorship or context of those words, or of their associa-
tions with either Tennyson or Plotinus. Again, whereas Mrs
Verrall’s own associations of the ydrrase with Tennyson
referred to Myers’s poem on Tennyson {Fragments p. 117),
which contains an allusion to Grossing the Bar but none
to In Memoriam, the references in her own script were to In
Memoriarn as well as to Grossing the Bar, and those in the
trance were to Arthur Hallam as well as to Grossing the
Bar. Thus, knowledge was shown in the Piper sittings of facts
altogether outside Mrs Pijrer’s own range of interest or know-
ledge, and those facts were all unknown to the actual sitter,
J. G. P., and had been in part unknown to Mrs Verrall when
she first put the question, and were not, at least consciously,
known to her uutil March 12.
To Frederic Myers all the main facts given in the scripts
of Mrs Piper and Mrs Verrall had been known; the meaning
of the words, the associations with Plotinus and Human
Personality, and the associations with his own poem on
Tennyson and with Grossing the Bar.
Were the associations with Sections xciv and xcv of In
Memoriam also knowir to him ?
In Myers’s poem on Tennyson, to which are prefixed the
words Kcu uvTO'i ovpavm aKVfxo)p, there is, it is true, no allusion
to In Memoriam-, but there are passages in other writings
of his which establish the fact that the trances of the poet,
and among them the trairce of In Memoriam, were a matter
on which he had deeply meditated.^ He was a great Tenny-
sonian ;
he was versed in all mystical subjects and in Neo-
platonic literature, and in one of the closing and culminating
passages of his posthumous work he had given special
1 See, in the volume of INIyers’s essaj's entitled Science and a Future Life,
Tennyson as Prophet generally, and particularly Modern Poets and Cosmic
Law p. 197.
LVII.] Series of Concordant Aidomatisms. 139
prominence to the Vision of Plotinus. Moreover, in Tennyson
as Prophet he more than once compared the ecstatic states
of Tennyson and Plotinus ;
^ though, be it noted, nowhere either
in that essay or elsewhere did he compare what Plotinus
says about the conditions of trance in Enneades v. 2-3 with
the trance of In Memoriaml And lastly, Tennyson’s son
evidently thought it likely that when asked to treat of the
Laureate’s work he might “ approach it from the side of
Plotinus ”, though he had once already done so, rather even
than from that of his beloved Vergil.
All this may not—does not prove that Myers had associated in
his mind the trance of Plotinus with the trance of Tennyson in In
Memoriam, but it does create a strong presumption that he did.
To sum up : In this concordant episode of Mrs Piper’s trance
and Mrs Verrall’s script the controlling influence in both cases
claims to be one and the same personality, namely, Frederic
Myers. Let us, however, ignore this claim, and continue to
use the symbols M^^ersp and Myersy. The case will then stand
thus : To MyerSp a cpiestion is put which could have been
answered by Frederic Myers. MyerSp gives various answers to
it—all intelligent and all but one provabl}^ correct. Before
MyerSp gives his first answer, Myersy shows knowledge of
what the answer of Myersp will be. Besides this, MyerSp
shows that he knows that Myersy had previously shown know-
ledge of his (Myersp) answer. One of the facts comprised in
this first answer cannot be proved to have been known to
Frederic Myers, but there are good grounds for thinking that
it might well have belonged to that body of specialised and
characteristic knowledge with which his mind was stocked.
The facts involved in the remainder of the answer given by
Myersp were all known to Frederic M3-ers
;
and they emerged
in a manner which indicates that the intelligence i-esponsible
for their emergence was as intimately conver-sant with the
closing chapters of Human Personality as Frederic M}’ers, its
author, must have been.
^ It is, of course, assumed throughout this paper tliat iNIrs Verrall is familiar
with the published works of F. W. H. Myers.
-See especially Ttnnyson as Prophet pp. 13.5-7. Had Myers wished to make
this comparison he could hardly have failed to have introduced it at this point.
140 J. G. Picldington. [part
APPENDIX.
(a)
Extract from record of sitting vAth Mrs Piper held on Jan.
15, 1907.
(Present : Mrs Verrall and J. G. P.)
(M}'ers communicating.) I came and gave you two messages
one was Dewdrops glistening with the mist and sun.
remer [sic] if? [i.e. “remember if"?]
Mrs V. Yes, I remember something about dewdrops and mist and
sun.
(to J. G. P. )
I’m almost sure I had that
I gave it to you.
Mrs V. Yes.
are you listening.
Mrs V. What was the other message 1
and the other was.
was .... celestial halceon [sic] days
Now have you it
Have you it ?
and do you recall it.
In the waking-stage of the trance of Jan. 22, 1907 “halcyon days”
was uttered disconnectedly.
ift)
Copy of Mrs Verrall’s diary of January 24, 1907.
Jan. 24. -/07. I propose to make the following test, wh. if
F. W. H. M. is really concerned in the trance ought to come ofi’.
I will ask for his associations with a short Greek sentence to be
given to me in English. I shall take kuI avTos oupavo? aKii/xwv for
141
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
these reasons: (1) My sc.[ript] of Jan. 22 had the word “Snpern”,
wh. referred me back yesterday to an earlier sc.[ript] wh. represents
the celestial halcyon days wh. the P.[iper] trance F. W. H. M. [i.e.
Myersp] said he had given me. The phrase c.[elestial] h.[alcyon]
days seems to me to refer to the idea of Plotinus, quoted in
H.[uman] P.[ersonality] Vol. II. p— [blank left unfilled] and there
is a flavour of Plot.[inus] too in my sc.[ript] (July 3 —/03).
(2) The 4 Greek words are printed as the motto to his Tennyson
poem in Frag\_meTi\ts.
(3) I think it possible that the same idea is at the base of the
references in my sc.[ript] to the windless calms.
Therefore (1) would give a chance that the point is familiar
enough to be remembered. (1) also suggests that it has been
selected as a test. (1) and (2) make it evidential, as the words can
be proved to have had associations for F. W. H. M. not to be dis-
covered by Mrs P.[iper]’s normal powers from the printed books.
I have mentioned these words to no one.
Extract from record of sitting vMli Mrs Piper held on Jan.
29, 1907.
(Present: Mrs Verrall and J. G. P.)
(Myers communicating.) Speak if you like.
Mrs V. I want to ask 3
0U something.
Do not speak so fast your words all run in together E.
Mrs V. I understand. I want to ask you to do something if pos-
sible . . I do not want you to write Greek, because
the light [i.e. Mrs Piper] does not know Greek
—
all right I shall be glad.
Mrs V. but if I say three Greek words could you say what they
remind you ofl
I might grasp the Avords.
and I might not but I could try.
Yes. You could either translate them into English, or tell
me of Avhat they make you think.
Mrs V.
142 J. G. Fiddington. [part
Do what ?
Mrs V. Tell me of what they remind you.
Oh yes of what they remind me. but what have they
to do with our experiments ?
Mrs V. I think you have spoken of them to me before, or something
like them.
Yes.
Mrs V. If I speak them now, you can tell me now or later what
they remind you of.
Very good.
Mrs V. avTu^ ovpcwo^; aKiyroji'.
Spell it.
Mrs V. a-u-t-o-s.
autos.
Mrs V. o-u-r-a-n-o-s.
0 U R A N 0 S.
first word.
Mrs V. The first word is autos.
R. yes.
Mrs V. And the second is ouranos.
yes.
Mrs V. The third is akumon, and is spelt a.-k-u-m-o-n.
akuno
Mrs V. No, m.
mon.
Mrs V. That’s right.
1 shall see you when again ?
Mrs V. Tomorrow.
LVII.] 143
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
I will certainly reply if I live,
live and I can U.D.
first word ?
J. G. P. (to Mrs V.) Give “autos” again.
Mbs V. autos.
is it S.
is it S.
second word
Mbs V. onranos.
first, S.
%
Mbs V. It ends in S.
Oh yes I U.D. better farewell F W H M
(Agitated movement of the hand) Adieu R H
Mbs V. Goodbye.
(S)
Extract from record of sitting v:ith Mrs Piper held on Jan. 30,
1907.
(Present: Mrs. Verrall and J. G. P.)
(Myers communicating.) Do R. recall, [i.e. “Do you re-
call?” It had been suggested to Rector to use the
abbreviation “D. R.” for “Do you remember?”, but he
seemed unable to get hold of it properly and soon ceased
trying to use it.]
what I used to say about
Haven of rest.
Mbs V. Is that “ House of Rest ” ?
No Haven.
ISIbs V. “Haven”?
144 [part
J. G. Pidclington.
Yes. do you E. [i.e. “remember”] a large chair
I used to sit iu when I called to see you ?
it was rather low
lown
L 0 W.
and I made such a statement upon several occasions when I
called.
Mrs V. You mean you said the chair was low 1
So I said I came in to talk over some matter with you
and I thought it would change my thoughts somewhat
as it seemed a Haven of Rest.
Mrs V. Yes Do you mean you have spoken of a Haven
of Rest since you left this life ^
Yes quite, twice I think.
but it is certain that I have done so. . . . and this is one
reason why it came into my mind now.
Mrs V. There have been two references to two occasions of your
sitting in my house: one published, [v. Proc. Y^ol. XX.
pp. 239-240.] the other not.
Mrs V. You said you had spoken to me of Celestial Halcyon days.
I couldn’t remember it, but I have found it now.
I told you my dear friend that my memory was better than
yours on some points.
Mrs V. Yes, so I have found.
I mentioned Larches to you before.
.J. G. P. “ Lakes ”
—Xo, perhaps it’s “ larches ”.
Laburman [There is no doubt that Laburnum is meant, though
the actual spelling is uncertain. The one given here is
the most probable.]
Mrs V. “ Laburnum ” 1
Yes. Y’es.
Series of Concordant Automatisms. U5
LVII.]
(^)
Copy of Mrs Verrail’s script of March 11 ,
1907 .
With violet buds their heads were crowned
violaceae
odores [violet-coloured scents]
Violet and olive leaf purple and hoary.
The cit}' of the violet and olive crown.
News will come of her. of Athens
The shadow of the Parthenon. It is a message from Plato
that I want to send—It has been given elsewhere but
should be completed here. It is about dim seen forms,
half-seen in the evenings grey by a boy and afterwards
woven into words that last—I want to say it again. I
think there is a verse in Tennyson about it. Plato and
the shadow and the unseen or half seen companionship
—
shapes seen in the glimpses of the moonlit heights.
To walk with Plato or some phrase like that,
with voiceless communing, and unseen Presence felt
No you don’t get it right
Presences on the eternal hills
that is better
The Presence that is in the lonely hills
That is all for now wmit.
(0
Copy of Mrs VcrralVs Buiry of March 12 ,
1907 .
March 12/07 My script seems to imjily
that the at’.[TosJ ov.[pavo9] dk-. [npcjc] has been explained in the
P. [iper] trance. I wonder if that is so. I have seen nothing
referring to it since my own sittings. Is the reason why F. W. H. M.
took those words as the motto to his Tennyson, I wonder, to be
found in T[ennyson]’s or in F. W. H. M’s own associations with
the words 1 e.g. is In Mem[oriam\ xciv a reflexion of the view of
Plotinus that calm of nature, earth and heaven alike is wanted for
communion with the divine 1 It may be, and it may be too that
this was in F. W. H. M.’s mind when he wrote his poem and chose
his motto. Constant suggestions of Tennyson in my sc.[ript] have
led to my reading In Mein.\oriam'\ and so I found this passage.
K
146 [part
J. G. Piddhigton.
[Added later in the day.]
Mar. 12. To the best of 1113’ belief I read In Mem.\oriam'\ again
a few days after verifying the references in [Mrs Holland’s] sc. [ript]
to Catullus. I saw that [i.e. Mrs Holland’s script] on Feb. 20 or
thereabouts, and asked [my husband] for the ref.[erence] ;
looked up
Bradley on Feb. 22 and read In Mem.\oriain\ probably on Tues[day].
Feb. 26 —
This morning, after above note in Diaiy, I went to look up
Bradle}', and find he refers to Plotinus. “Tennyson’s experience
seems to have resembled that of Plotinus” he says, commenting on
xcv, l)ut makes no mention of the characteristic peace. He says
that Hallam had read Neoplatonic literature. —I have no doubt now
tliat F. AY. H. M. chose his motto with the knowledge of the
Plotinus “communion during calm” in his mind associated with In
Mem.\i)riani\ xciv and xcv. M3" scrijA suggested plaiul3" that
there was some point in In Mein.[oriaiii\ —it associated Tennyson and
F. AY. H. M. together on Feb. 12, and referred to Arthur and
Avilion’s calm on same day ;
referred to F. W. H. M’s poem on
T.[ennyson] on Feb. 20, and on Feb. 26 referred to In Mem.[oriam'\
xciv and to In Mem.[oriaiii\ again on March 6. On March 11
it associated T.[ennyson] and another jjoem of F. AY. H. M’s about
Plato and dcdpi"/;crts etc.
I have also now no doubt that “ larches and laburnum ” were
approaches to Tenn3"son’s In l\Iem.[oriaiii\ b3" the Piper trance, and
intended to give me one group of associations with the Greek words
said b3" me the day before. Probabl3" the primrofie in my sc.[ript]
of March 6 is also an attempt to get at Ixxxv.
V'l)
Extract from record of sitting with Mrs Piper held 07i Feh. 6,
1907.
(Present : J. G. P. alone.)
(Alyers communicating).) Now her [i.e. Mrs A^errall’s] Greek
also 3"our latin message will be replied to as soon as I can.
•T. O. P. Y^es, thank you.
I am in no wise forgetting or overlooking them but I am
getting much off m3" mind.
.J. G. P. No, Myers, don’t be in a hurr3" ;
there’s plenty of time,
which is a great help to me.
147
Lvri.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
J. G. P. I want to give you a message from Mrs Verrall about her
Greek words.
Very well I listen.
J. G. P. I will read a letter which she has written to me.
Read slowly friend otherwise I loose, [sic.]
(J. G. P. then paraphrases the letter, which read as follows :
—
“ Please tell the trance-personalities that I believe them to
have been very good on Jan. 29 and 30. Especially
F. W.H.M.- seems to me to have shown on Jan. 30 that
he understood my three Greek words
I had not realised this at the time, but thought of it later,
and am confirmed by the report, [i.e. of the sitting.] ”)
What ?
U.D. all right.
but one word not clear.
condemned does not seem to apply well.
J. G. P. You must have misheard the word “confirmed”. “Con-
firmed ”.
confirmed ?
J. G. P. Yes.
Oh yes thank you very much I U.D. cpiite
do go on.
(J. G. P. paraphrases the rest of the letter, which read as
follows :
—
“ Details later, but I should like you to say this, and ask for a
clearer statement as to what those words remind him of.”)
Yes I quite U.D. and will explain fully when you are
alone.
J. G. P. Yes, thank you.
I grasped much of their meaning and am pondering much
over them.
148 J. G. Piddington. [part
Extract from record of sitting with Mrs Piggcr held on March 6,
1907 .
(Present: J. G. P. alone.)
(Myers announces that he had tried to make Mrs Verrall
draw a circle and a triangle, but was not sure of com-
plete success. AVhereupon J. G. P. addresses Rector as
follows :
—
.J. G. P. Ask Myers ^olien he made the attempt to draw the triangle
inside a circle. Can he remember any other words he
did succeed in getting through at the same time 1
Do you mean what day friend 1
1 doubt if he could tell you this.
but he may be able to tell you which word.
what word he made her write.
Cloudless
Sky
Horizon.
don’t you U.D.
.J. G. P. Will you rewrite the last word"?
Horison.
J. G. P. Is it “ Horizon ” ?
(Hand assents.) spell it.
.J. G. P. H—0—r—i —z —0—n.
(The hand reaches across the table and points with the pencil
exactly to the spot where “Horizon” had been first written.
The sheet on which the word had been first written had
been torn off the block and placed on the top of the
heap of preceding sheets.)
Reread my first word.
Horizon
149
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
J. G. P. Quite right. I see now. [The word had been written quite
plainly the first time : better in fact than on the subsequent
occasions. I failed to read it the first time probably
because “ Sky ” is not a word which one would expect
to find immediately followed by “ Horizon ”. My failure
to decipher the word at first shows how little I was
consciously looking out for a translation or reference to
auTos ouparos aKVjxm'. Note by J. G. P.]
It was given like this
J. G. P. Yes?
A cloudless sky beyond the Horison.
[It might be supposed that “ Cloudless Sky Horizon ” was
given, in answer to my question, as words which came
out in Mrs Verrall’s script at the same time as the
triangle and circle. I feel certain, however, that this
was not the intention. Had this been Rector’s meaning
he would either before or after writing the words have
explained that they were Myers’s answer to my question.
Also they were written on a fresh sheet of paper and
in a much larger and bolder hand than the preceding
script : both points suggesting a change of subject.
Moreover the}" were followed by the question “Don’t
you understand 1
”
—a phrase not, I think, elsewhere used
in the trance in connection with the announcement of
words said to have been given to Mrs Verrall or other
automatists. I believe the phrase conveyed an expression
of surprise that I did not by manner or speech show
that I realised that a paraphrase of Mrs Verrall’s Greek
words had been given. Lastly—and this is the strongest
reason for thinking that the trance-personalities did not
intend to connect “ Cloudless Sky Horizon ” with the
drawing of a circle and triangle —a few minutes later
Rector gave a definite answer to my question by stating
that when Mrs Verrall drew a circle and triangle Myers
had also made her write “ something about Bird ”, and
“Paradise”, and “something else” which Rector could
not catch (see p. 72). Note by J. G. P.]
150 J. G. Pidclington. [part
(0
Copy of the record of words spoken hy Mrs Piper during the
waking-stage of the trance of March 6, 1907.
(Present : J. G. P. and Miss Newton, the latter standing
with her ear close to Mrs Piper’s mouth.)
(Smiles. Thumb and first finger of left hand pressed together
as if holding something. They are brought slowly to the
nose, and Mrs Piper acts as though smelling a flower or
perfume.)
(Many words lost)
Has , . . (Many more words lost)
.J. G. P. Say it again slowly.
(More w'ords inaudible) to meet.
You here. Then, ah ! then.
Pm very sorry . . .
.... a friend of mine with old(?) life.
Yes, I will.
Moaning at the bar when 1 put out to sea. [These words
were heard by Miss Newton who was in ignorance of
their having previousl}^ appeared in Mrs Verrall’s script.
J. G. P. did not catch them ;
but he was not in nearly so
advantageous a position for hearing as Miss Newton.]
I’m glad PveC?) entered. (Pause.)
Because I do. Very glad.
(Papid and excited breathing.) What is it? (Points.)
Pioses. (The right hand, hitherto resting on the table, is
brought up on to the cushion with effort, and exactly
the same gestures are made with it as before with the
left hand.)
(Sniffing.) Beautiful.
Sorry (?)
How are you ? Going, going. I’m sorry.
I>’you hear that? (Nods head.) Too bad, Arthur Hallam.
[So heard by Miss Newton. Before she reported the
name to J. G. P. he had put down “Hallo”: doubtless
his mishearing of “ Hallam ”.]
Arthur Hallam. [This time clearly heard by J. G. P.]
Goodbye. M.argaret. I’m so glad I came.
151
lvil] a Series of Concordant Aidoniatisnis.
(Screws up left eye.) Getting dark.
It closes all over. (Shakes head.)
I’m very sorry. Spiders. Oh !
(Shakes head in disgust.)
Oh !
(moaning) Ah ! I don’t like it. I don’t like it.
Midnight (?) Very dull. (Looks out of window. The sun
was shining brightly.)
Well, that’s cruel.
So all—all gone awa}^ The}^ left me all alone.
•J. G. P. What did they talk to you about ?
There was some man : Arthur Hallam. Myers said it was
he—he about.
He isn’t for living. Salta (?).
So he says that he’ll give evidence ;
and he’s glad to know
that he had a good definite idea in his innermost soul
—
much more reason in it than —can know wait (or,
“weight”) to take.
Oh ! buzzing.
(Looks at J. G. P.) Yes, a little dwarf, and he’s a dwarf.
Waiting to get taken up there.
J. G. P. What ?
No, you don’t understand anything. They sa}^ it isn’t nice
here, and I don’t like it very well. Is that a head ?
(Points) Yes, it’s a head. AVhy do you have a veil on?
A snap in my head. I want to tell you something, only I
can’t.
J. G. P. Well, tell me what you can ?
There’s a gentleman up there who is trying to tell me some-
thing, but—I don’t know what it was.
J. G. P. M’ell, listen.
He said it affected his innermost soul to talk to you, and
he was so glad. I am so glad. (Shuts eyes) I don’t .see
you at all.
(Long pause.) Did you hear my head snap? It sent like a
sound of—
(Looks at Miss Newton in surprise.) You didn’t come in
through the window, did you ?
152 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Miss N. No, I came in through the door.
How could you come in through the door's (pause). Through
the door. (Laughs.) Of course ! How could you come
through the window? It’s just come to me. That was
a fool’s question. (Laughs at her own stupidity.)
(Trance ends 1.35 p.m.)
(-)
Extract from record, of sitting vjith Mrs Pilfer held on
March 13, 1907.
(Present; J. G. P. alone.)
(Rector communicating.)
+ Hail.
J. G. P. Hail, Ini})erator and Rector.
Once more we greet you friend of earth
peace and joy and all goodwill rve bring.
+ (R.)
J. G. P. Thank you ;
thank you much.
Mr Myers wishes to speak with you first
after which we desire to speak also.
J. G. P. Yes. I am listening.
(Hand consults Spirit.)
he is coming will speak in a moment.
J. G. P. Yes.
(Hodgson then mentions two words rvlucli he has been
trying to make Mrs Yerrall write; and immediately
afterwards Myers begins to communicate as follows :
)
Good morning my friend.
J. G. P. Good morning, Myers.
I am glad to see you again.
153
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automcdisms.
J. G. P. I am very glad to see you.
I referred to
J. G. P. Well 1
saying I had crossed it.
Yes did she li.D.
J. G. P. You said it to whom 1
both lights ....
J. G. P. I have not looked yet. I purposely did not look.
Oh yes. I U.D. why.
(Myers after referring to other matters (v. p. 344) goes on
to describe how he imj^ressed J. G. P. with the word
“Steeple” (v. p. 44), dismisses the subject with the
remark :
“ Well, that is off my mind ”, and then at once
proceeds as follows :
—
)
I saw Mrs Verrall and gave her a sign like this.
(Hand consults spirit.)
and said I have crossed it.
Y’’es. (assent to reading) I thought she might get a glimpse
of my U.L). [i.e. “ understanding ”] of her Greek.
J. G. P. I have a message from her to you ;
but before I give it
will you describe in a word the thing which you said
you crossed 1
BAR.
154 [part
J. G. Picldington.
J. G. P. I see ;
I understand. Now I’ll give you Mrs. Verrall’s
message ;
and then when you have got all the messages
that you have prepared off' your mind I will look at
Mrs Verrall’s script and see if they have come through.
Very good.
(Entirely diff'erent subjects are then referred to.)
I wish her [i.e. Mrs. Verrall’s] message to me.
J. G. P. Yes ;
I’ll give it.
(J. G. P. then reads the following extract from a letter
addressed to him by Mrs. Verrall on March 12, 1907 :
—
“ He [i.e. the Myers control] has told me why aiVos
ov'pai'os (XKVfjLwv had certain associations for hwi
;
he has
told me this since he spoke to me through ‘
the light ’,
and I am sure I did not know the reason for those
associations—though of course I knew the associations
—
Avhen I said the words to him.
You may also say, if you like, tliat I understand Larches and
Laburnum.”)
Very good
(Other matters are then referred to, and meanwhile Hodgson
has taken the place of Myers as communicator.)
J. G. P. If you have anything special to say will you say it now ?
(Hodgson communicating.) Yes did Mrs V. draw a bar
J. G. P. Shall I look ?
yes.
J. G. P. Then wait, please.
let me call Myers first I want him to hear. (A pause.)
(Myers communicating) yes. are you here 1 ... .
did she draw a
(A figure intended to represent a bar was again drawn at this
point, but so faintly that it cannot be reproduced.)
155
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
(Meanwhile J. G. P. had opened for the first time the
envelopes containing Mrs Verrall’s script of March 11
and 12, 1907, and read the contents.)
J. G. P. I cannot see that she did.
She D
J. G. P. (interrupting) Oh ! Myers, one moment.
yes.
.J. G. P. I forgot. She wrote “ may there be no moaning at the bar ”,
but she didn’t draw a bar.
When I put out to sea.
J. G. P. Yes.
IVhy didn’t you say so before.
.1. G. P. It was some days ago she wrote it, and I was looking out for a
picture.
I am not so sure that I gave her this full impression but
I did Cjuote those lines to her. I also cpioted them to
this light.
J. G. P. That is so ;
I know.
while Hodgson held it for me. [i.e. during the waking-
stage.]
.J. G. P. Yes, luckily a lady present here [i.e. Miss Newton] heard
them.
(J. G. P. then urges the trance-personalities to speak very
slowly and distinctly during the waking-stage..)
I will do my very best, that is a help
(Hodgson communicating)
but we ask if she wrote D
—
H. [i.e. Hodgson.]
J. G. P. I can’t see that she did.
156 J. G. Piddington. [part
(Myers communicating)
I for fear you would not U.D. Bar
U.D. I
it for her [i.e. “ I drew it for her ”] and said
Hallam
did you get it ?
J. G. P. I think not. I am nearly sure not.
Arthur Hallam.
J. G. P. I understand. You wrote “ Pilot face to face ”
;
but not
Arthur Hallam, so far as I remember, [i.e. the words
“Pilot face to face” had ajjpeared in Mrs Verrall’s
script of Feb. 26, but not the name Arthur Hallam.
AVhen I said I understood I was thinking of the state-
ment made by some ridiculous person that by “ my Pilot
”
Tennyson had meant Arthur Hallam. Note by J. G. P.]
yes. No I mean I gave it to the spirit of this light while
it was returning.
J, G. P. You did ;
you did.
I did that so as to connect the words with its authors
individuality.
[At the sitting “ authors ” was read as “ central ”, but I have
little doubt that “authors” is the true reading. J.G.P.^
J. G. P. I quite understand.
thank you.
[I was at one time disposed to regard this statement as an instance
of the kind of evasiveness not uncommon with trance-personalities ;
but careful consideration of the context has led me to think that
the “her” in the phrase “I drew it for her and said Hallam” is
157
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
more properly to be referred to Mrs Piper than to Mrs Verrall.
After MyerSp had stated that he gave the quotation from Crossing
the Bar to Mrs Piper he is twice interrupted, first by myself, and
then by Hodgsonp who interposed the remark “ but we ask if she
wrote D”. MyerSp then goes on to add to his statement as if no
interruption had occurred, and accordingly “ her ” would naturally
apply to “ this light ” (i.e. Mrs Piper). I had evidently been dis-
tracted by Hodgson’s asking “ if she (i.e. Mrs Verrall) wrote D ”,
and so took “her” to refer to Mrs Verrall also.
But it really matters little which interpretation is accepted. If
we suppose that MyerSp meant that he had given “Arthur Hallam ”
to Mrs Verrall, then this experiment failed in so far as her script
does not actually contain the name, although it must be admitted
that those portions of her script which refer to avro? orparos dKvpajv
inevitably suggest the personality of Arthur Hallam. If on the
other hand we suppose that Myersp meant that he had given Crossing
the Bar and “ Arthur Hallam ” to Mrs Piper, but only Crossing the
Bar to Mrs Verrall, then that absolutely accords wdth the facts.
The really important point was that the poem and the name should
have been unmistakably combined by MyerSp ;
and so long as the
combination was made it hardly matters whether it was made in
both places or not. Note hj J. G. P.]
Extract from record of sitting with Mrs Pigocr held on April
29 ,
1907.
(Present: Mrs Verrall and Miss A. Johnson.)
(Myers communicating.) listen, listen.
When I referred to the Greek words I referred to a picture
also.
Did you U.D. it?
Mrs V. Do you mean when you spoke to me you referred to a
picture ?
Yes. when you were not here.
I have had some reference to a picture, but not, I think, in
connection with those three Greek words.
Mrs V.
158 J, G. Piddington. [part
No but I gave you some reference to it here and later I
referred to it again when you were not here.
[The picture here mentioned by Myersp I take to refer to
the drawing of a bar made at the sitting of March 13
(v. Appendix k). I had myself at that sitting called it
a ‘ picture Note by J. G. P.]
Mrs V. Yes, wait a moment. I think I must have this clear. Ma}"
I go through itl
Yes do.
Mrs V. When I was last here I gave you three Greek words and I
asked for their meaning and associations. You have
given me the meaning through this light, and have given
me direct the explanation of the associations—which I
did not know. You have also, so I am told, given one
association through this light. The only thing now to
complete it would be to say through this light the name
of the Greek author of those words.
Yes I U.D. all that well, (written while Mrs Verrall was
speaking.)
I do not exactly catch your meaning about the next to the
last word.
[By “next to the last word” “author” seems to be meant.]
Mrs V. (misreading “next to the”) “Next step”? I mean the
thing to finish the evidence.
Oh did you say water
Water yes what word came before your last ?
Mrs V. Wait a minute.
What did you say Arthur?
Mrs V. No, I did not say Arthur. I said you have done everything
necessary—but one more point might be added—you
might give the author.
Spell it.
MrsV. A—u
159
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Oh I U.D. Author
Oh 3^es I did not catch it. You mean my reference to
Horace. [Mr.s Verrall had asked Myersp to answer a
question about a certain ode of Horace v. pi>.
397 et seg.]
Mks V. “ My reference to Horace
”
'?
(Rector communicating.)
(Hand shakes.) Confusion about your question
—
he is thinking of that question also.
Mbs V. Yes, yes.
let him wait a minute and get the word author through
his mind.
(Hand consults spirit.) Author wait a minute and he’ll
answer
(Myers addressing Rector) You were very clear about the
Latin message and I am quite pleased.
Mbs V. Yes. (To Miss Johnson) He’s commending Rector, I think.
(Myers addressing Rector) the other reply jmu must get now
so she will U.D. me.
(Rector to Myers.) Yes I’ll try.
(Rector to Mrs V.) He wishes to U.D. if he can reply about
the Horace question on third [i.e. on \Vednesday].
Yes (assent to reading) to Mrs S.
Mrs V. Oh ! that’s to Mrs Sidgwick, I suppose.
(Myers communicating) Yes very good. I remember my
reference to the Greek words well.
this was what brought to my mind the thought about Sasia
Saisia.
(Rector communicating) too bad.
Mrs V. Print it.
Francis
Siaa No you do not U.D. + R.
Mrs V. No, I know I don’t.
1(30 J. G. Piddington. [part
I said the last sentence . . . which I gave you. was okumen
[i.e. aKVfMxiv wrongl}^ transliterated].
Best to U.D. each word separately if you can and it will be
easier to U.D. him R.
(Myers communicating.)
I gave it here several times and I thought you U.D. it.
Mrs V. Yes. What was it that you gave me 1 A message about
Horace 1
Yes.
Mrs V. No, I don’t think the message has been given to me about
Horace. I have no knowledge of it.
(Rector communicating)
Oh yes. I think there is still some muddling wait and I
will explain. I did not mean Horace at all he Mr Myers
means.
Del
Del
Mrs V. “Del” or “Det”?
Borg Yes Sw Borg.
Mrs V. Swedenborg 1
yes.
Mrs V. You gave me a message about Swedenborg. [At the sitting
of Jan. 29—but before the test-cjuestion was first put—
•
MyerSp had correctly reminded Mrs Verrall of a con-
versation which Mr Myers had had with her about
Swedenborg.]
(Myers communicating)
Yes I did.
Mrs V. Yes, you did ;
and I found it true.
thank you now you U.D.
Yes one thing more cleared ujr at last.
(encouragingly) Yes.
now listen I referred to another character both here and
when you were alone I wish to go back to St
Paul
Mrs V.
LVII.] ^4 Series of Concordant Antomatisms. IGl
my reference to azure a blue sea
[There is much confusion throughout this sitting and especially
just here; but I think that the main points at which the
trance-personalities were driving can be apprehended fairly
clearly.
Myersp begins by referring spontaneously to the Greek words ;
and this gives Mrs Verrall an opportunity to ask for the
name of the author of them to be given in the trance.
Myersp has some difficulty in hearing the word “ author ”,
and, when he does catch it, it reminds him of another
question about an ode of Horace which Mrs Verrall
had asked him to answer. Eector spontaneously explains
that Myers has confused the two questions. Myersp then
says to Rector “the other reply you must get now so
she will U.D. me”: “the other reply” meaning, as I
think, obviously, the reply to the question about afros
oi'/Dai'os u.KVfj,(Dv, and “you must get now” meaning that
the intention was to give this reply at this sitting.
Myersp then asks, in a parenthesis, if he can answer
the question about Horace some other da}q and then
returns to the subject of the Greek words. Mrs Verrall
got confused at this point, probably owing to her diffi-
culty in deciphering the script, and thought that he was
referring to the Horace question. She asked if this
was so, and M}mrsp said “Yes”; but Rector came to
the rescue and explained that Myers was not talking
about Horace at all ;
he did not, it is true, say that
Myers was talking about the Greek words, but I think
it is clear that by denying that the subject of Myers’s
communications was Horace he implied that it was the
only other subject which had been alluded to in this
part of the sitting, namely the Gi’eek words. Conse-
quently I am of opinion that “ Sasia Saisia Francis
”
“ Del Borg Sw Borg ”, “ St Paul ” and “ azure a blue
sea” are all meant to be connected with the Greek
words. When Swedenborg was mentioned Mrs Verrall,
not seeing at this time any connection between Sweden-
borg and the authorship of the Greek words, thought
Myersp was alluding to a talk about Swedenborg which
in an earlier sitting he said he had had in his lifetime
with her. Myersp remarks parenthetically that he is glad
L
162 J. G. Piddington. [part
that Mrs Verrall found the reference correct, and then
returns to the subject of the Greek words again.
The phrase “ another character ” should be noted. One
“character” is Swedenborg, the other St Paul. Myersp
says he gave “St Paul” both to Mrs Verrall and Mrs
Piper. In Mrs Yerrall’s script St Paul is not mentioned,
but in the waking-stage of the trance of March 13 the
name “ St Paul ” was uttered disconnectedly ;
and it was
on March 13 that the Tennysonian associations with afros
ovpavus aKVfx(Dv were given. The word “ character ” may
have been used to indicate that “Swedenborg” and “St
Paul ” were not mere names chosen for the purpose of
a cross-correspondence experiment, but that the emphasis
was on their individualities.
After the mention of St Paul Myersp proceeds to recall his
“reference to azure a blue sky”, a subject clearly con-
nected with the paraphrase of arVos ovpavo^ 6.Kvp.m’ given
in the trance on March 6. (v. Section XX.)
Note hy J. G. P.]
.... I also referred to the word Vaunt
Mrs V. “ Vaunt ” ?
yes. The word vaunt and I want you to look it up.
Mrs V. You want me to look up the word “Vaunt”?
Yes in your writing
Mrs V. Yes, I will. [At the sitting of April 24 MyerSp twice said
to Mrs Sidgwick that he had given “Vaunt” to Mrs
Verrall; but on neither occasion did he connect it in
any way with the Greek words. We may accordingly
assume that he is here introducing a fresh topic.
Note by J. G. P.]
(Rector communicating) When he gets that off his mind he
will reply to the rest ....
(Myers communicating) look out for the words I am trying
to give you now I), etc. D. etc.
Mrs V. “ Date ” ? First letter is D 1
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 163
begins with D.
Mrs V. I know the word. I told it to my husband yesterday. Shall
I say it 1
Yes. What is it 1
Mrs V. Dante.
Yes. yes. Very good indeed, but not right yet.
[Myersp here undoubtedly meant by the word beginning
with a D “Dwarf”. “Dwarf and Giant” was a cross-
correspondence message chosen by J. G. P. for transmission
to Mrs Verrall. v. pp. 87-94.]
(Myersp then urges Mrs Verrall to try to get the word
beginning with a D ;
and explains that he thought it
had come out wrongly in her script as “Dianna”.)
Now I will refer to your previous question. [Mrs Verrall’s
question about the authorship of the Greek words
apparently.]
I remember repeating the name here well and I gave it
as answer to your question. [What name was meant
does not appear.]
It was with reference to the poem Halceon Halcon days and
it appeared again with you
Mrs V. Yes, it did.
as I worked very faithfully to get it through.
I also mentioned one name.
Mrs V. Yes, what name 1
(The name “Dante” was then spelt after great difficulty.
Mrs Werrall certainly gave no help; nor indeed could
she have done so, for she had no notion of what word
the trance-personalities were trying to write. “Dant”
was written straight off; but to get the final e occupied
several minutes. This was all the more curious because
Mrs Verrall had previously pronounced the name Dante.)
Mrs V. Eight ;
now we’ve got the word—you’ve now spelt the word
“ Dante ”.
Yes. Yes. that is right also. yes. right.
104 J. G. Piddington. [part
Mrs V. I discovered yesterda}^ in my script two allusions to that
word which I had not seen [i.e. understood]. I men-
tioned them to my husband and wrote them down and
said I should get that word tomorrow. Well, I think
that’s rather good. [Mrs Verrall had previously stated
that she had got the word in her script, so there was
of course nothing evidential in the mere mention of it
in the trance; significance, however, attaches to “Dante”
having been mentioned just after Myers had said: “I
will refer to your previous question”, i.e. as to the
authorship of the Greek words ;
for in the catalogue of
“ the strong souls who have claimed to feel ” ecstacy
[Human Personality Vol. II p. 261) Dante figures as well
as Plotinus, St Paul and Swedenborg.
Note hy J. G. P.]
I U.D. well all I tried
(Myers then again urges Mrs Verrall to try to write the
other word beginning with a D which he has been
impressing on her for a long time.)
Mrs V. Rector, I don’t think we ought to keep this light much
longer.
(Rector communicating) I am sorry we did not get on better
today.
perhaps you will read better next time.
Mrs V. Yes, I’ve been rather stupid to-day.
»
I cant register unless }'ou U.D. well.
(Myers communicating) I am going to return next time and
give you several answers.
Now listen
that was the answer to the Greek
Greek words,
got it clearly %
Mrs V. Yes, I have clearly.
165
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Amen. Amen, at last.
Anything more before I go. Myers.
[There is nothing to which “that” in the phrase “that was
the answer to the Greek words ” directly refers ;
but I
think it is meant to refer specially to “ Dante ” and
generally to most of the subjects mentioned in the
sitting. However wanting in definiteness many of the
statements made in this sitting were, it is important to
note that Mrs Verrall at the time took the references
to St Paul and Swedenborg to be connected with her
question about the authorship of the Greek words, in
spite of the fact that at the time she failed to see any
relevance in them. Note by J. G. P.]
itC
Extract from record of sitting vjith Mrs Piper held on Ajoril 30,
1907.
(Present : Miss Alice Johnson, alone at this point.)
(Rector communicating) We greet you as a new friend in a
way and before the lady [i.e. Mrs Verrall] appears Mr
Myers would like to speak with you.
Miss J. I shall be very glad to see Mr Myers.
(Myers communicating) Yes good morning, my friend, how
are you ? I am very glad to see you. Yes I promised
to give my reply to the Greek words and as soon as I
saw the light departing I caught Rector and gave it
to him and he will now give it to you.
Miss J. Yes, do, please.
as I believe it will be a better proof of identity than it
would be if I gave it to Mrs Y
—
Do you U.D.
Miss J. Yes, cpiite.
AVell my reply to the Greek words are [sic] this that is this
is this
They reminded me of HOMERS
(Miss J. tried in vain to read the letters.)
No you haven’t
16(3 J. G. Picldington. [part
.Miss J. H ?
Yes.
Miss .J. E ?
No—H (followed by a string of linked o’s).
Miss J. I can’t read that sign.
OMERS. ILLIARD.
It is the name of the author.
Miss J. Horace? (hand signifies dissent.)
H HOMER’S
Miss J. Oh! “Homer”.
(hand thumps assent) HOMER’S ILLIARD.
Yes it reminded me of Homer’s illiard. [sic]
(Miss J. endeavours to decijdier the last word.)
• • •
I ILLIARD. (heavy dots over the i’s.)
Miss J. (still unable to read “Illiard”) I will tell Mrs Verrall and
she will understand, as she knows more about Homer
than I do.
Yes she will
Listen to me
I thought it would be a better proof of my own individuality
if I gave you my reply before she appeared.
I wish you now to U.D. that her question was
was this—Yes (assent to reading)
Mr Myers can tell me can you tell me what these Greek
words
(Miss J. asks for the word before “ Greek ” to be repeated.)
what these—these THESE
Greek words remind you of.
now my answer is Homer’s illiard
(Miss J. fails to decipher)
Homers.
Miss J. Oh !
“ Iliad ”. Ah, yes.
Do you U.D.?
167
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Miss J. Yes, quite, thank you.
thank you very much
I promised to give it to Mrs S [i.e. Mrs Sidgwick] but thought
it would do as well to give it you
(Other matters are then mentioned.)
Miss J. Shall I go and ask Mrs Verrall to come in now?
Certainly. Yes.
(Miss J. goes out, and comes back at once with Mrs Verrall,
who takes her place next to Mrs Piper and is at once
addressed by Rector as follows :
—
)
Good morning friend of earth I am glad to greet you again.
MesJV. Thank you. Good morning.
I have seen Mr Myers, and he gave me his reply to your
Greek words.
and I gave them [i.e. I, Rector, acting as amanuensis for
Myers] to the other lady before you appeared Tell her to
speak them.
[Rector then clearly changed his mind and decided to repeat
the answer himself.]
all right.
HOMER’S ILLIARD.
is that all right ?
Mbs V. Yes, that seems all right.
anything more ? about it ?
.Mbs V. I have nothing more to say.
Very good
(Myersp then gives Mrs Verrall encouragement and advice
about her automatic writing ;
and, after one or two other
topics have been touched upon, Mrs Verrall repeats a
question asked some weeks earlier about an Ode of Horace.
To this MyerSp replies as follows ;
—
)
I believe I can recall it in time. I will certainly go over
my memories very carefully and do my utmost to recall.
I believe I have completed my answer to the Greek.
168 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Mrs V. Very likely. Yes, I think so.
If I have not remind me.
Mrs V. Yes.
You asked for Author’s name.
Mrs Y. Yes, the name of the author of the three Greek words
:
ai’iTOS ovpavus dKVpMV.
It reminded me of
Pa [I think it quite likel3^ that “Pa” was an attempt to
spell “Plato”. The story of Socrates’ vision of the white-
robed woman is told in Plato’s Krito. Note hy J. G. P.l
SOC
(Mrs V. read “C” first as L and then as E.)
c c Socr
tse.
Mrs V. Socrates ?
Yes.
yes it reminded me of Homer also
I got Socratese [sic].
S c in my mind.
and it came through your question,
anything more about it 1
Mrs V. No, I think not. I think there is nothing more for me to
say.
Just let me bring it out when I can.
I will try and recall his name.
Mrs Y. But do not trouble ;
you have given me a very complete
answer to that question already.
Yes this I thought you would U.D.
I could of course go over it again but I hope it is not
necessaiy.
Mrs Y. No, not at all, we have it quite clear.
Amen.
169
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
C)
Extract from sitting ^vith Mrs Pi]per held on May 1, 1907.
(Present : Mrs Sidgwick and Miss A. Johnson.)
(Myers communicating.) Now what other c^uestion did you
give me to answer.
E. M. S. Well, you told me you would tell me about the Greek words
that Mrs Verrall spoke of.
Oh yes. I said it reminded me of a poem But there was
some confusion. I think about the questions as I U.D.
them.
E. M. S. Shall I tell you again what Mrs Verrall asked you?
Yes if you will be so kind, it is not that I forget but it is
with difficulty that 1 U.D.
E. M. S. She said aiVds ovpavos aKvyuiv and asked you what is the
meaning and association of these Greek words for you.
I remembered and referred to it some time ago.
E. M. S. Yes, you did.
I thought it was clear but if not 1 shall go over it again
and repeat it here.
E. M. S. Yes, please do. There has been a little confusion, 1 think.
Yes 1 believe so and I am very sorrj^ about it but I will
yet make it clear so you will U.D. it as I did the
other.
E. M. S. Yes, thank you.
Extract from record of sitting loith Mrs Pifcr held on May G,
1907.
(Present: Mrs Sidgwick and Miss A. Johnson.)
(Rector, after some preliminary remarks announces, “ Mr
Myers”.)
(Myers communicating.) Good morning.
170 J. G. Piddington. [part
E. M. S. Good moruing, Mr Myers.
I am very pleased to meet you again.
E. M. S. And 1 to meet you.
Will you say to Mrs Verrall
Plotinus
(E. M. S. fails to decipher.)
P L 0 t i n u s.
E. M. S. I will. What is that ?
My answer
E. M. S. Good,
to
autos
ouranos okumen [in error for ‘
akumon ’].
E. M. 8. Very good indeed. She will be very glad. I believe that is
what she wanted.
It is my answer.
E. M. S. (with conviction) Thank you, Mr Myers, that is excellent.
You are welcome cjuite
E. M. S. That is a splendid test.
It is only to keep my jjromise to her. and to you
E. M. 8. Thank you. I am so much pleased.
I am also pleased as I caught Rector at our last meeting and
spelled it out to him clearly.
E. M.S. It is very clever of you both.
give her [i.e. Mrs Verrall] my love, and tell her my interest
is unceasing.
E. M. S. Yes, I will. I am very glad it is.
I answered this particularly to keep my promise to you all
three.
LVii.J A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
E. M. S. “ All three ” is it 1
171
My good friend Piddington and yourself and Mrs Verrall.
E. M. S. Oh !
yes, I see.
Now I believe this completes the answer to the Greek
Cjuestion.
E. M. S. Yes, it does.
and the Latin I have previously answered. I believe through
both lights sufficiently for you to U.D. that I have really
answered at last.
I could not help thinking of Tennyson in one of the inc[uiries
and Browning in the other.
(^)
Extract from record of sitting loith Mrs Piper held on May 27,
1907.
(Present : Sir Oliver and Lady Lodge.)
(Myers communicating.) 1 did give Dwarf
Dwarf.
O. J. L. Oh! “Dwarf”.
Yes P. will U.D.
O. J. L. “ Piddington wdll understand ” 1
Do you U.D. Plotinus
0. J. L. “ Plotinus ?
”
Yes.
0. J. L. 1 know something about Plotinus, yes.
This is my answer to the Greek message.
Mrs. V’s Greek message to me was
Autos ouranos okumen. [sic]
My reply was Plotinus.
[part
T72 J. G. Picldington.
0. J. L. Yes, so I gather.
She asked me the author.
[This second reference to the subject was no mere padding;
on the contrary it was a thoroughly intelligent comment
on a remark made hy 0. J. L., which is, however, pur-
posely suppressed. Note hy J. G. P.]
Extract from record of sitting with Mrs Piper held on June 2,
1907.
(Present : Sir Oliver and Lady Lodge.)
0. J. L. (spontaneously introducing the subject) I understood about
“Autos ouranos ” etc. It is considered the best thing
you have done.
(Myers communicating) Really 1 I thought of
Tennyson directly she gave me her words. Socratese [sic]
and the original aspect.
XII.
“ VIOLETS.’'
We have just seen how two cross-correspondences—“Moan-
ing at the bar” and “Arthur Hallam ”—were tirst given in
the waking-stage ;
the first without any indication, the second
with only the merest glimmer of a hint that a parallel was to
be sought in the script of some other automatist. In the
same way the words “ laurel wreath ” came out first during
the waking-stage ;
though in this instance the context in-
timated, if it did not directly indicate, that they constituted a
cross-correspondence.
We have now to consider a case where a word uttered in
173
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
the waking-stage, but not accompanied by any statement
which clearly marked it as the subject of a cross-correspondence
experiment, had appeared an hour or so previously in the
script of another automatist.
Extract from record of icords spoken by Mrs Piper during
the waking-stage of the tro/nee of March 11, 1907.
(Present Mr John Russell and J. G. P.)
I
Ah ! (about eleven words inaudible)
Safe suffer that (?) They’re safe. Pm sure father too. [So
heard by Mr Russell ]
Fai-ther.
Faith. I say we will read(?) to you.
(smiles) Ah ! MTll, w^ell. Yes, very careful. (?)
Dr Hodgson. I’m glad. (A pause.)
Eh?
Violets. [So heard by Mr Russell.]
J. G. P. Is it “ violets ” ?
Dr Hodgson violets and the lady said Fairer (exag-
gerated accent on the first syllable, which was pronounced
much as fe would be in French.)
(Here followed many inaudible words)
would be and her husband (?) hudband (?) and Herdeman
Herdment (?)
That w'as I’ll help him and Herdeman Herdeman
It’s setting dark. I’m glad. I’m sure I don’t know what
o o
to do.
M^hat w'ill I do ? A1 A1 (Looks round as though at a
group of people standing in a circle.)
Goodbye. One of them said Fair
I w'anted to see if I could find my son and — — — —
Cobwebs. Pick them off. [or, “think I’m off.]
Cross.
Well then, I never. That’s Mr Myers, and I want the
cobwebs off my face. (Waves hand in farewell.) Aches.
^Yell, well, well. I never. Spiders.
174 J. G. Pidclington. [part
The space between the words “ Dr Hodgson ” and “ violets
”
represents a similar space left in ray original record. When a
word was inaudible it was my habit to make a dash. Where
I heard a word but had no time to write it down I left a
space as here ;
and I would seize the first opportunity to fill
in the blank. Here I failed to do so ;
but I have no
reasonable doubt that the word which should fill the blank
is “ said ”
;
and that the sentence ran “ Dr Hodgson said violets
and the lady said Fairer”.
Attempts had been made, certainly once, and perhaps twice
before, to pronounce clearly in the waking-stage the word
which in this instance I put down as “Fairer”.
Thei'e are two secondary points which I want as far as
possible to establish before dealing with the main subject of
this section; the first, that “Fairer” was the announcement
of an attempted and possibly successful cross-correspondence
;
the second, that such phrases as “I said”, “he said”, “they
said ” and so on, are employed in the waking-stage to indicate
that the word or words thus “said” were the subjects of
attempted cross-correspondences.
Extract from record of the words spoken hy Mrs Piper during
the waking-stage of the trance of Feb. 12, 1907.
(Head rises 12.57 p.m.)
(Many inaudible words.)
— where I live.
Ben-shot 01) (Many words lost.)
I didn’t want to go. At Fairy.
J. G. P. “At Ferry”?
Fairy. (Many words or names inaudible.)
Fanculie. (?)
You must be patient with me because I have only learned
how
—
What did you say to me about handing over—
?
Well, I go. I’ll go to Mrs Verrall.
It should be noted that very soon after the word “ Fairy
”
was twice pronounced on Feb. 12 came the phrase “I go. I’ll
go to Mrs Verrall”. These words were spoken about 1 p.m.
175
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
On the same claj’, Feb. 12, 1907, at 11 a.m. Mrs Verrall had
written the script, quoted in full on p. 113, which begins:
—
The voyage of Maeldune faery lands forlorn
and noises of the western sea
It will be seen then tha,t within two hours of the production
of this script, containing the word “ faery ”, a communicator
in the Piper trance utters the word “ Fairy ” twice without
explanation, or rather, I should say, without audible explana-
tion, and very soon afterwards adds :
“ I’ll go to Mrs
Yerrall The word “ fairy ” had no significance for the sitter
Mr IMacalister, nor can I connect it in any way with any
subject mentioned in earlier or later sittings.
I did not see Mrs Verrall’s script of Feb. 12 till 8 a.m. on
Feb. 15, so that my hearing of the word as “Fairy” cannot
have been due to suggestion. The first word spoken during
the waking-stage of the sitting of Feb. 26 (see above p. 94)
was possibly “Fairies”. “Fairies” on Feb. 26, and “the lad}’
said Fairer” on March 11, look to me like attempts at
repeating, perhaps with the intention of explaining, the utter-
ance of Feb. 12. “Fairies” seems to have been uttered by
George Pelham; “Fairer” was attributed to “the lady”. Who
is roeant by “ the lady ” is a matter of conjecture, but she may
well be a lady again and again spoken of in the trance as
co-operating with the group of which Myers, Hodgson and
George Pelham are the most prominent members ;
and this
group is especially concerned with the conduct of the ci’oss-
correspondence experiments. “Fairy” occurs only twice in Mrs
Yerrall’s script, once as quoted above, and once on Jan. 22 in
a script consisting of 16 lines of verse, of which the first eight
run thus :
—
“A thousand years shall roll
A thousand aeons pass
Ere the imprisoned soul
Shall see as in a glass
Darkly, a vision dim
Flit, phantomlike and fair,
A breath, a fairies’ whim
Thro’ the encircling air
176 ./. G. Piddington. [part
I will now illustrate by quotations the use of the formula
“ I said ” etc. in the wakino-stao-e.
Jan. 23, 1907:—
Well. I said forget-me-iiots — — — —^ that’s a hobby of
mine.
Ache.s. (Smiles.) Well, I never. There’s Mr Myers and Dr
Hodgson, both in the ring. You pull it offl Getting
dark, isn’t if? Oh! dear. Oh! dear. Spiders again.
lu the earlier part of this sitting Hodgsoiip had said that
he was going to impress Mrs Verrall with the words :
“ Basket
full to overflowing of forget-me-nots”; and I haven’t the
least doubt that the words uttered subsequently in the waking-
.stage were intended as a reminder of his intention.
March 19, 1907 :
—
Mr Hodgson. How did he gef?
Where is Billy'? Give my love to Billy. Billy.
lYhat is it?
They said they were saying
Mary say say day
Most dead,
What does Mr H. want to
Tell Mrs Sidgwick that there is a roses and lilies and
forget-me-nots. I said them all to her. [By “her” Mrs
Verrall is probably meant.]
Hallelujah. Hallelujah.
If she gets it she has it.
My hand is dead.
I thought I saw Dr Hodgson in the light.
Here too the meaning is clear. Hodgsonp i,s represented
as informing Mrs Sidgwick, who was in charge of the sitting,
that he has given the words “ roses, lilies and forget-me-nots
”
to some automatist unnamed. It will be seen that the
original subject of the experiment—“forget-me-nots”—has been
added to ;
but this is paralleled by other instances ;
e.g.
“Church” was changed first to “Church edifice” and then to
“Church, Chapel, Monument”; and “Shores, lakes and rivers,
or stream ” was subsequently modified to “ O’er mountains, seas,
^ The dashes indicate words not caught.
177
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Aidoniatisms.
and lakes and rivers ” and then again to “ Mountain, field and
sky, also hills ” (v. p. 233).
April 17, 1907:—
Tanatos [repeated in later sittings and then clearly recognised
as “ Thanatos ”]. I am saying it. Thank you Mr—
-
Certain my faithful wife.
O’er mountains seas and lakes and rivers (v, p. 29-5).
“ Thanatos ”, as will appear later, is a fairly certain cross-
correspondence, and “ Mountains, seas ” etc. also.
May 7, 1907:—
I hear you. Yes yes no.
Not deaf.
I will, ni see.
Daffodils.
I want to say — — Thanatos (v. p. 297).
On April 29 Myersp had given “ Daffodils ” as a cross-corre-
spondence, and “Thanatos” is, as I have just said, a fairly certain
cross-correspondence experiment too.^
I think, then, that we are justified in taking the words
“ Violets. Dr. Hodgson [said] violets ”, spoken during the
waking-stage of the trance of March 11, to mean that Hodgsoiip
is announcing the word “ violets ” as one chosen for a cross-
correspondence experiment.
I find what looks like a correspondence in Mrs Verrall’s
sciipt of the same day, March 11, 1907, which was begun at
10.55 a.m. : some two hours, that is, before “ violets ” was
uttered by Mrs Piper. The opening passages of this script
read as follows :
—
With violet buds their heads were crowned
violaceae
odores [violet-coloured scents]
Violet and olive leaf purple and hoar}n
The city of the violet and olive crown.
News will come of her. of Athens
The shadow of the Parthenon.
^ Cf. “I say Aphrodite”, p. 269.
M
178 J. G. Picldington. [part
Three times in these few lines is the woicl “violet” repeated,
and “ violaceae ”, of course, also introduces the meaning- of violet.
This reiteration of the same word or idea has already been
noticed in the “ Laurel wreath ” script, and it will be met with
again (v. pp. 98, 202 and 223).
Those familiar with what takes place in the waking-stage of
Mrs Piper’s trance will remember that flowei's are oiten mentioned.
While the medium gradually passes out of the state of profound
trance, in which the scrii>t is produced and of which she retains
no recollections, she enters into a lighter stage of trance in
which she is more or less conscious of her “ spiritual ” sur-
roundings. She recognises and greets her spirit friends, who
give her messages for their friends on the other side, and bring
her bunches of flowers ;
and these she smells with keen delight,
and will often exclaim at their beauty. In the series of sittings
which took place in England roses were the flowers most often
mentioned in this way, and roses and lilies the only flowers so
mentioned. Violets were never thus referred to. And apart from
this it is perfectly clear that the “ violets ” mentioned in the
wakiug-stage on March 11 were not flowers offered to the
medium by spirits but a word reported by her as having been
spoken by a spirit.
The word “violet” occurs twice only in Mrs Verrall’s script
during the period under review ;
for the first time in the script
of March 11, cjuoted above, for the second in that of April 29 ;
and the passage in which it occurs on April 29 explicitly refers
back to the earlier script.^
The envelope containing Dlrs Yerrall’s script of March 11
bears the postmark “ Cambridge 2.15 p.m. Mr.” The
date is not legible, but must be March 11, as the envelope
was found by Miss Johnson on her arrival at Hanover Square
at 10.45 a.m. on March 12. She forwarded it unopened to me,
and I received it at 10.50 a.m. on March 13. At the time,
then, when “violets” was uttered in the trance of March 11, no
one but Mrs Verrall had seen her script of March 11.
1 “ I tried before—I spoke of Athens, but
j'ou did not complete.
Golden City of God. The city of Cecrops
is violet and hoary—look back at that.”
lvil] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 179
XIII.
“ CUP.”
Extract from record of sitting with Mrs Evper held, on March
18, 1907.
(Present : Mrs Sidgwick and Mrs John Eussell.)
(Hodgson communicating) You are a stupid lot if you cant
U.D. when I am shouting at the top of my voice to make
you U.D.
Don’t you remember how I used to shout when I got excited
and interested.
Mrs Russell. Yes.
Cup used (1)
C C
Mrs Russell. Is it somebody else now ?
no not at all.
In the manuscript copy of the record of the sitting made by
Mrs Sidgwick from which this extract is taken the words given
above as “ Cup used C C ” were not written out, hut tracings
were given of the original script, as in all cases where
any doubt existed as to the true reading. In revising the
type-written copy of her first manuscript copy of the record
Mrs Sidgwick erased the tracing of the second word and sub-
stituted the reading “ used ”.
When I first saw the record I read the first word as “ Cup ”,
and the third as “C C”, and I accepted wdthout question Mrs
Sidgwick’s reading “ used ” for the middle word. I couldn’t see
any meaning in the words and thought no more about them.
On August 25, 1907, in the course of going over the record
of the sitting of March 18, among others, for the purpose of
writing this paper, I noticed these three words, and again failed
180 J. G. Piddington. [part
to make any sense of them ;
though I had no doubt that “ cup ”
was the first word and “ C C ” the lastd Half an hour later
I was searching through Mrs Verrall’s script for some reference
or other when I noticed that her script of March 19 contained
the names “Russell” and “John” and the drawing of a cup.
I then thought that it would be advisable to ask Mrs Sidgwick
to examine the words in the original script of March 18 again.
This I asked her to do without giving her any hint of how I
read the words, or of why I wished her to re-examine the script.
Her reply, made after a careful examination of the original, was :
“ I should be satisfied with the reading ‘
Cup used CC if it
made any sense in the context. The letter p seems plain, and
the contraction Cu into what is written [i.e. the contracted form
of the letters Cu in the script] quite in accordance with custom.
The ‘used’ is almost exactly like the word in other places: e.g.
three lines above”. I think Mrs Sidgwick’s independent corrobo-
ration of my reading of two out of the three words makes
these two words certain. Mrs Sidgwick deciphers the middle
word as “ used ”, and I agree that the symbols could represent
that word, but I do not believe that it is the true reading, though
I cannot suggest a better. My objection to “ used ” is that
to make sense of the phrase it must be supposed to be elliptical
for “ Cup has been (or, ‘
is to be ’) used as a cross-correspond-
ence ”
;
and not only are ellipses of this kind not, so far as
my knowledge goes, in keeping with the diction of Mrs Piper’s
script, but, even if they were, the expression would still be
an awkward and unnatural one ;
whereas the language of the
Piper script is obvious, simple and unforced. There are excep-
tions, real or apparent, but they are very rare ;
and the former
occur, I fancy, when there is some temporary difficulty in “ com-
municating” (which there does not seem to have been on the
occasion in question), while the latter are due to wrong
decii)hering, and, as I have found more than once, disappear
when the true reading has been discovered. Still, the two
1C. C. as an abbreviation for “cross-correspondence” was used in the Piper
script both previously and subsequently to its use here : e.g. a few minutes
earlier in this same sitting Rector, as amanuensis for Hodgsonp, had written :
“ I want very much to work over the C.C. messages as I think Myers U.D. very
well now the modus operand! ”.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Aictomatisms. 181
important words are certain, and must mean that “ Cup” forms
the subject of a cross-correspondence experiment. Two other
points seem clear: (1) Hodgsonp was communicating imme-
diately before the three words were written, and continued with-
out inten’uption to communicate afterwards. The sitter thinking
the letters “ C C ” stood for initials asked :
“ Is it somebody
else now ? ”, and was met with the rejoinder: “ No, not at all ”.
In spite, therefore, of the abrupt and unexplained introduction
of the words they must be attributed to Hodgsonp.
(2) The}^ were addres.sed apparent^ to Mrs John Russell,
herself an old friend of Dr Hodgson’s, and the wife of one of
his most intimate friends at St. John’s College, Cambridge ;
or, if not actually addressed to Mrs Russell, they were at any
rate written in the middle of communications addressed to her
by Hodgsonp.
I now quote two scripts of Mrs Verrall’s which certainly seem
to correspond in part with the incident just described.
Copy of Mrs Verrall’s script of March 19, 1907, begun ai
10.30 p.m.
(Scribbles) a knot of blue ribbon.
Finny not another
Rendall or Russell was the name. This is the first
time I have said — John but that is not his name.
The rooms were adjoining and there was a better outlook
from his. There is something red in this connection a
picture on the wall I think of a hunting scene I have
said something of that before. Look back. Two hunting
crops on the wall over a silver cup.
Try for more tomorrow
I want to give you a message from Henry Sidgwick.
Try tomorrow. I will do what I can. Tuus.
1S2 J. G. Piddington. [part
Copy of Mrs VcrrcdTs script of March 20 ,
1907 .
Coral and a fisher’.s line Mischabel not the Hornli
that was a mistake
Mischabelhorner he meant to say. Has that no
recollections for you ? The fire that was so high — the
bivouac fire — and the fires of the solstice in the
Rhone valley.
Beltane fires. I want to say the word Beltane Fires
elsewhere. St John’s feast John the Baptist, but the
Evangelist is our patron and we keep his feast. Johannes
Evangelista and the Eagle on the Gate.
These scripts will require a good deal of explanation and
comment, but we may simplify the first by detaching its final
paragraph, which evidently introduces a new topic unconnected
with what precedes.
The opening phrase “ a knot of blue ribbon ” I take to be
no more than a first attempt to get the name “ John ”
:
“ Oh ! dear, what can the matter be ?
Johnny's so long at the fair;
He promised to buy me a bunch of blue ribbon
To tie up my bonny brown hair.”
For “Finny” I can suggest no explanation.
No one except the members of the Committee in charge of
Mrs Piper’s sittings and Miss Johnson, and, of course, the sitters
themselves, knew that Mr and Mrs John Russell were to have
sittings with Mrs Piper, and no one except the sitters them-
selves, Mrs Sidgwick,, Miss Johnson and myself knew the dates
on which their sittings were to be or were held. It is therefore
interesting to find Mrs Verrall’s script mentioning “John”
and “ Russell ” on a day when Mrs John Russell had had a
sitting.
Mrs Verrall told me in September 1907 that she did not
know the Ru.ssells, did not know that a Mr John Russell
bad been at St John’s College with Dr Hodgson, and did not
know that Dr Hodgson had had such a friend, nor that he and
his wife were to have sittings with Mrs Piper. On Sept. 10
Mr Russell wrote to Mrs Sidgwick :
—“ We do not know Mrs
A^ei'rall, and think it unlikely that she should ever have heard of
LVii.] xi Series of Concordant Automatisms. 183
ns 01-
our sitting. We had kept perfect faith with Mr Piddington
and mentioned the fact of our sitting to no living soul
The first part of the script of March 19 ends with the words
“ Try for more tomorrow We should therefore expect to find
the script of the following day supplementing that of the day
before. I believe that the whole of the script of March 20 aims
at giving expression to one thing, and one thing only : namely,
a College dedicated to S. John the Evangelist, e.g. St John’s
College, Cambridge ;
and the manner in which the idea eventu-
ally attains expression is both curious and instructive.
The real goal (St John the Evangelist) is not immediately
attained, the scribe has first to travel by devious bye-paths to
a half-way house on the main road (St John the Baptist), and
from that point only is his progress direct and easy.
To this script Mrs Verrall appended two contemporaneous
notes ; (1)
“ Mischahelhdrner. I once saw a bivouac fire high
up on these mountains before a ‘
new ’
ascent.”
(2) ‘'fires . . . valley. I also once saw fires on S. John’s
Eve in the Upper Pth one Valley.”
First, then, a fire on a Swiss mountain seen by the automatist
is recalled. (Note, by the way, the assonance between “fisher”
and “Mischa”, as if the former was a first mishearing of the
latter.) This in turn recalls other fires seen in Switzerland on
St John’s Eve, i.e. June 23; and these again suggest the
Beltane or solstice fires. The fires seen in the Upper Rhone
Valle}^ (June 23), the mention of the solstice (June 21 or 22),
and of the Beltane or solstice fires have helped the emergence
of the Feast of St John the Baptist (June 21); and from the
Baptist to the Evangelist the transition is easy and direct.^
^ Mrs Verrall writes on August 11, 1908: —“We twice saw fires high up in
the Alps, one on the Mischabelhorner, from the village of Fee in the year
1885. At Fee we met Mr Gerald Rendall (now Head Master of Charterhouse
School), and it was the only time (I think) we ever met him in the Alps.
We saw a good deal of him, and in particular he was interested in the climb
which produced the bivouac fire. I think he and our party actually stood
together and watched it ;
anyhow we discussed it together.” It was Dr Verrall
who reminded Mrs Verrall of this connection of Dr Rendall with the incident
of the bivouac fire. This new information forcibly suggests that the name
“Rendall” in the script of March 19 was the first emergence of the Swiss
allusions in that of March 20, and furnishes another reason for regarding these
two scripts as complementary of each other.
184 J. G. Piddington. [part
In a third note appended contem|)oraneously to the script
Mrs Verrall wrote; ‘'The Evangelist etc.—probably allusion to
St. John’s College, Cambridge.” The significance of this
allusion, if, as I think we must, we treat the script of
March 20 as the sequel to that of March 19, lies in the fact
that Dr Hodgson and Mr John Ru.ssell were up at St John’s
College, Cambridge, together :
“ The Evangelist is our patron
and we keep his Feast”. It was clear enough that a John
Russell or Rendall was connected with the script of March
19, but there was no indication of who the scribe might be,
for the signature “Tuus”, which is that of Myersy, belongs
apparently to the last paragraph onl}". There is in the
script of March 19 a phrase: “This is the first time I have
said—John but that is not his name ” : which, if we assume, as
indeed I think we must assume, some supernormal reciprocation
between the phenomena of Mrs Verrall and those of Mrs Piper,
fairly satisfactorily identifies Hodgsony as the “ 1 ” of this
script; for at the Piper sitting held on the morning of March 19
Hodgsonp for the first time unmistakably gave the name
“John” as that of some one closely connected with the sitter,
Mrs Russell. I take the words: “
—John ^ but that is not his
name”: to mean that “John” was not the name by which Mr
Russell was usually called. He was, as a matter of fact, called
Jack by his wife and by Dr Hodgson.
I will now summarise the evidence for my statement that
Hodgsonp for the first time at the sitting with Mrs Piper held
on March 19 clearly applied the name John to some one closely
connected with Mrs Russell.
At Mr Russell’s first sitting on March 4 a lady communicates
who in later sittings is identified as the sitter’s mother ;
the
name “ John ” is not written in the script, but the first words
spoken in the waking-stage were perhaps “John and Nelly”
(they are marked with a query in the record). Hodgsonp
sends no message to the sitter, and the only reference to him
after the sitter’s entrance is in the waking-stage, when Mrs
Piper in the course of describing her experience in the spirit-
^ For the manner in which empliasis is thrown on the name John by means
of a preceding dash cf. Miss VerralFs script of Jan. 12, 1907: —“robbing
Peter to pay—Paul,” jr. 32.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 185
world states that “ that lady had said that she was glad that
she had found Dr Hodgson The doubtful words pronounced
in the waking-stage, “John and Nelly”, are in no way con-
nected with Hodgsonp.
At Mr Russell’s second sitting on March 5 “ the lady ” says
:
“you will understand when I say John and Ry are both with
me”. John was the name of the sitter’s father, Ry the pet
name of his mother. Hodgsoiip did not put in an appearance
at this sitting.
At Mr Russell’s third sittino- on March 11 the name John is
O
not mentioned, and Hodgsonp is not referred to except in the
waking-stage and then only in general terms.
At Mr Russell’s fourth and last sitting on March 12 Hodgsoop
announces that he is going to help “ the lady ” to speak to her
son. In the course of this sitting, at whicli a good deal of
confusion occurred, the sitter said to Rector; “Ask Hodgson to
help Whereupon Rector wrote :
“ He is helping the old lady
all he can. He remembers you very well After this Hodgsonp
addresses remarks to the sitter, and, though he tries to give the
nickname by which Mr Russell called Dr Hodgson, he does
not attempt to give Mr Russell’s name.
At Mrs Russell’s first sitting on March 18 she is greeted
by Hodgsonp immediately on her entrance with the words
:
“ Hello old chap are you first rate ? I am very glad to see
you old M ”. At this point he apparently perceives his
eiTor and corrects it spontaneously and appropriately by
adding :
“ Tell your old chap [to] understand me. I do not
think he did absolutely ;
but if you understand better than
he did, we shall get on finely—first rate together. You
remember how I used to walk up and down your dining room
explaining my ideas to you and him ? ”. To this the sitter
replies “ Generally ”
;
and then a word is written which Mrs
Sidgwick has left undeciphered in her record of the sitting.
This word, if there were any dot observable, would certainly
be read as “Jim”, but there is no sign of a dot, and it may be
“John”; and indeed I think it is, as the i is very rarely
undotted in the Piper script. Whether it be “John” or “Jim”,
it is certainly a name, and I have no doubt was intended to
refer to and explain the immediately preceding “ him ”. Mrs
186 /. G. Picldington. [part
Sidgwick asked what the word was, but the question was not
answered. A little later on followed some passages which I
will transcribe from the record :
—
(Hodgson communicating) Do you remember Jackson
Mes Russell. No.
Yes Jack
E. M. !S. “Jack”?
Mrs Russell. Jack, of course. Is it Jack?
well of course it is. Jack.
Mrs Russell. Of course I remember Jack.
son was inadvertently spoken
Mrs Russell. I don’t know Jackson.
Yes it should be Jack only.
The name Jack is again referred to at Mrs Russell’s second,
o y
and last, sitting held the next day, March 19, 1907 :
—
(Hodgson communicating) and when I said Jack or John you
did not U.D. me at all. I am not in a dream dear(?)
I am myself and clearly (?)
Mes PmssELL. Who is ?
R.H. [i.e. Richard Hodgson.]
Later the subject is brought up again :
—
(Hodgson communicating) Do you remember who you called
Jack.
let me get this clear first. Jack.
Mes Russell, (misreading) “We called Jack?”
we called Jack,
whom you called Jack.
Mrs Russell. Of course I remember.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Autoniatis'ms. 187
Jack is right.
Mrs Russell. Who is Jack 1
I am Hodgson speaking now.
Mrs Russell. Yes. Who is Jack?
Jack is clear, isn’t it.
Mrs Rus.sell. Yes, quite clear.
Jack. I ask you to follow me carefully and I shall (?)
not (?) make (?) no mistake.
Is Jack all right?
Mrs Russell. Do you mean is the name right?
Yes. I remember it well.
Mrs Russell. Yes.
I cant forget everything,
dont you remember our
you say Jack.
I know you used to say Jack.
I U.D. perfectly what I am driving at. I had such good
times with you. You were so kind always, am I getting
dreamy ?
such good times at your house I’ll never forget oh(?) don’t
you remember what I said about coming over here ?
Mrs Russell. Yes.
I said I hoped I should do better than some of them had.
Remember ask J
Mrs Russell. “Ask J”? Yes.
he will remember it
J U.D.
188 J. G. Piddington. [part
Then again later :
—
listen is J all right.
give love to him. you U.D. I am not mistaken at all
And again :
—
I am not dreaming in the least, ask J he may remember
Mrs Russell. I will.
Amen
anything else I can do ? I will surely.
Jack.
Now, had it not been for the light thrown on this sitting
by Mrs Verrall’s script of March 19, written some ten hours
later, one might have said in one’s haste that this wearisome
insistence on the name Jack was mere “ fishing ” for the
purpose of getting the sitter to say whose name it was. But I
think Hodgsonp knew what he was about, and was justified in
saying; “I understand perfectly what I am driving at”. His
object, so it seems to me, was to signalise this sitting by
the reiteration of some simple topic so that a reference else-
where to the same topic should at once recall its original
context.
If “John” is the right reading and not “Jim” on March
18, then Hodgsoiip first said “John” on that day; but in
any case the name is not explicitly applied ;
whereas on
March 19 the name is clearly given, and it is made perfectly
plain that “John” or “Jack” is the name of the sitter who
preceded Mrs Russell ;
and, though it is not stated that
“John” or “Jack” is her husband, yet it is certainly im-
plied—e.g. in the phrase “your old chap”—that he is very
intimately connected with her.
I interpret, then, the words in Mrs Verrall’s script of March
19, “This is the first time I have said—John but that is not
his name”, thus To-day is the first time that I, Hodgson,
have said the name John clearly through Mrs Piper; John,
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 189
however, is not the name by which my triend was called but
Jack.” If this interpretation is right, and if we are justified
in taking the script of March 20 as supplementing that of
March 19, the following coincidences between Mrs Piper’s and
Mrs Verrall’s scripts result ;
—
On March 18 Mrs Russell, the wife of John Russell an old
College friend of Dr Hodgson’s, has her first sitting with
Mrs Piper. In the course of it and while Hodgsonp is
addressing communications to Mrs Russell, the words “ Cup
used(?) C C” are written. These words are abruptly intro-
duced, and not only are unrelated to their immediate context,
but no connection can be traced between them and anything
else that was written or uttered during the sittings attended
either by Mr and Mrs Russell or by any previous sitter. Shortly
before these three words were written, a name, which is
perhaps “John”, was connected with the sitter by Hodgsonp.
On the morning of March 19 Mrs Russell had her second
sitting with Mrs Piper; and in the course of it Hodgsonp,
who clearly recognised that an intimate relationship existed
between her and the previous sitter (Mr John Russell), re-
marked: “when I said Jack or John you did not understand
me at all”; the name John this time being distinctl)^ written
and mentioned as an alternative to “ Jack”. After this great
stress is laid upon the name Jack, which is brought in again
and again in an apparently meaningless way.
On the evening of March 19 Mrs Verrall, who had no normal
knowledge of any of these facts, wrote a piece of automatic
script in which appeared the name Russell, the phrase
;
“ This is the first time I have said—John but that is not his
name”, and the word “cup” followed by a picture of a
cup ;
and after the picture came the words “ Try for more
tomorrow ”.
On the morrow she wrote a script embracing a series of
topics, strung together by association of ideas, which issues
finally in what is certainly an allusion to St John’s College,
Cambridge.^
A few points in the two scripts of March 19 and 20, which
I have not touched on so far, require comment.
' One of the gates of St John’s College has an eagle over it.
190 [part
J. G. Piddington.
The rooms were adjoining and there was a better outlook
from his. To be consistent with the interpretation offered
above these words ought to mean that Mr Russell and Dr
Hodgson when they were up at St John’s occupied adjoining-
rooms, and that the outlook from the former’s was the better
of the two. This was not the case, for Mr Russell, writing
to Mrs Sidgwick on Sep. 10, 1907, says :
“ Our rooms were
not adjoining. Moreover his [i.e. Hodgson’s] were never in
College except once or twice in a ‘
Long ’.
He always ‘
kept
’
in Park Street ;
with an outlook from his sitting-room over
Midsummer Common. (Is it so called?) My outlook was
into the second court.”
There is something red. in this connection a 'picture on the
wall I think of a hunting scene I have said something of
that before. Look back. Two hunting crops on the wall over
a silver cup.
With regard to this i\Ir Russell writes in the same letter :
—
“ Hunting scenes and crops were never at all in my line (or
his) and the only ‘
silver cup ’
I ever had in my rooms was
a pewter I won on the river.”
I have said something of that before. Look back.
On Jan. 10, 1907, Mrs VeiTall’s script had contained the
following ;
—“ But the picture has colour in it—red colour I
see and movement. In full cry the hounds are running to
the cover on the lea.”
The unveridical reference to a hunting scene and hunting-
crops in the script of March 19 may perhaps be explained
in this way. The real aim of the scribe was the expression
of the word or idea “ Cup ”
;
and to get at it he liad to lead
up to it by first introducing the idea of sport and sporting
trophies. Hence the revival of an eai'lier reference in the
script to a hunting scene. The word “crops” may have got
introduced partly by a natural association of ideas with hunting
and partly from the similarity in sound and form between
” crop ” and “ cup ”. Or, if we suppose that the scribe was
alluding to the pewter cup won by Mr Russell, the words
“there is something- red in this connection” may have applied
to the colours of the Lady Margaret Boat Club (i.e. the Boat
Club of St John’s College, Cambridge), which are scarlet
—
191
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
the scarlet, or very nearly so, of a hunting coat ;
and the
scarlet colours (or scarlet “ blazer ”) may then have provoked
a recollection of the script of Jau. 10 with its allusion to a
h untin o- scene.
o
The Evangelist is our 2)cctron and we kee'j;) his feast.
Mr Russell writes :
“ I think I do remember once keeping the
Feast of St John at a great spi’ead in Hall. But I fancy
everybody in residence did so too.”
But the unveridical references in Mrs Verrall’s scripts do
not of course affect the main question of the cross-correspon-
dence, which to me at least seems to be well established.
The script of March 19 is the onl}’ script written by Mrs
Verrall during the period under review which contains either
the word “ cup ” or a drawing of a cup. Now it is at least a
veiy curious coincidence that the only time that the word
“ cup ” occurs in any piece of script written by Mrs Holland
during the period under review is also on March 19.
I quote the concluding paragraphs of this script only, as
the preceding paragraphs refer to quite diflerent subjects.
Copy of p)(^'>’t of Mrs HollamTs script of Mamch 19, 1907
(begun at 10.4-5 a.-.m. Calcutta time).
We have been striving for some time to eliminate some of
the rubbish in these message [sic] —To send a possible
speck or two of gold without the obscuring mounds of
rubble and gravel—But the minds of both percipient
and receiver make this very difficult. To the readers
of this I would specially say Dismiss your preconceived
notions —They are liindrauces not helps —Be in no hurry
to identify Only have patience—The water-drops have
not as yet begun to wear the stone—After the cup has
been worn in the stone the falling drops can be collected
—
but not before —At present there is only a damp spot—
inadequate —for thirst quenching
I can’t form no signature.
The use of the word “ cup ” to describe the cavity made
in a stone by dropping water is not of course parallel to
the use of the word in Mrs Verrall’s script: a fact which
at first sight might seem slightly to lessen the significance of
the coincidence. But the same word may intentionally have
192 [part
J. G. PidcUngton.
been employed in one sense in Mrs Verrall’s case, in another
sense in Mrs Holland’s, and in an undefined sense in Mrs
Piper’s, in order to construct a less straightforward instance
of cross-correspondence than would have I’esulted had the
word been used in all three cases in the same sensed
Still, although the word in Mrs Holland’s script undoubtedly
means a cavity, the phrase “ inadequate for thirst quenching
”
introduces also the ordinary sense of “cup” as a thing for
drinking out of
The concluding paragraphs of Mrs Holland’s script from “ Be
in no hurry to identify ” clearly seem to indicate that some-
thing is needed to complete the message ;
which would in fact
be true if Mrs Holland’s “ cup ” is one term of a triple cross-
correspondence.
I would particularly impress on the reader the very small
interval of time which separated the appearances of the word
“ Cup ” in the .scripts of Mrs Piper, Mrs Holland and Mrs
Verrall. The dates and hours were these:
Mrs Piper: March IS, about 11.40 a.m.
Mrs Holland : March 19, script begun at 10.45 a.m. Calcutta
time (i.e. 4.45 a.m. Greenwich time) and ended 10.53 a.m.
Mrs Verrall : March 19, script begun at 10.30 p.m.
And I think that we may even fairly reduce this period of
35 hours to 27, for even if spirits “ rest not day and night
”
mortal automatists must
;
so if we allow Mrs Verrall 8 hour.s’
.sleep on the night of March 18, it results that within 27
working hours a word given in Mrs Piper’s trance as a cross-
correspondence was written automatically for the first and
only time during a period extending over six or seven months
by both Mrs Holland and Mrs Verrall.
* See p. 327 for a possible instance of the word “scale” having been used
in three different senses.
lvil] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 193
XIV.
“ DIANA”.
Extract from record of sitting with Mrs Piper held on March
19 ,
1907 .
(Present: Mrs Sidgwick and Miss Newton, the latter merely
waiting for a signal to summon the sitter.)
(Rector communicating) Mr Hodgson is here and sends his
greeting.
he also wishes to ask if you U.D. that Mrs V— has written
Dianna.
E. M. S. (misreading) “Has written Premier” is it?
(Hodgson communicating) No Good morning Mrs Sidgwick
I said DIANNA
E. M. S. Good morning, Mr Hodgson.
I am very well and happy how are you ?
E. M. S. I am very well, thank you. Did you say that Mrs Verrall
had written “Dianna”?
I think. I tried to impress it on her mind.
E. M. S. Yes, I will enquire.
Wky dont you get her to send
you what she does get each day so you can compare it
with what I tell you here?
lYould that not be wise.
E. M. S. She sends it every day to Mr Piddington, and I tell Mr
Piddington what you say.
Oh yes very good.
N
194 J. G. Pidclington. [part
Extract from record of sitting unth Mrs Filler held on Agrril
2, 1907.
(Present Mrs Sidgwick alone.)
(Myers communicating.) I should be glad if you could tell
me if she wrote about Diana.
E. M. S. I will enc|uire. I think she wrote something like it, but
not C|uite Diana.
It was that that I was impressing upon her mind did it
appear as Annie
E. M. S. (misreading) “It was as Diner”, is it?
Dianea
E. M. S. I will enquire.
Thank you.
Extract from record of sitting v.nth Mrs Piper held on April
4, 1907.
(Present, at this point, Mrs Sidgwick and Miss Newton.)
(Rector communicating) AVili you note friend our messages
to and about Mrs V. and reply to us when we think we
have succeeded in getting messages through ?
E.M. S. Yes, I will.
you do not reply about Darwin
E. M. S. I have asked about it, but I cannot hear that it got through.
We do not wish to make the same things when once they
have been received U.D.
E. M. 8. Yes, I quite understand, and as soon as I hear that Darwin
has got through, I will tell you.
I think she mistook it for Dwarf.
E. M. 8. I see. I’ll ask.
It may liave been Den Diana or a similar word. We are
not sure just which. l)ut we are impressing her with
DWARF continually.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 195
E. M. S. Quite right. It will get through.
Yes in time it will
but those words similar really derive
from our repeated attempts at Dwarf U.D.
[“ Darwin ” ^ had been chosen by Myersp on March 20,
“Dwarf and Giant” by J. G. P. on Feb. 19, as subjects
of cross-correspondence experiments with Mrs Verrall.]
Ejotract from record of sitting vntli Mrs Piper held on April
8, 1907.
(Present Mrs Sidgwick alone.)
(Myers communicating) also tell me if she [Mrs Verrall]
got Dianna, it was not cpute Dianna but Dianys (1)
[or, “ Dianp ”]
E. M. S. What is that 1
Dia (followed by some undecipherable symbols, which look
like a repetition of the final letters of the preceding
word.)
E. M. S. “ Dia” is thaf?
yes, [Before Mrs Sidgwick had time to ask what the remain-
ing undeciphered letters were MyerSp went on to another
subject.]
Extract from record, of sitting ivith Mrs Piper held on April
29, 1907.'
(Present Mrs Verrall and Miss Alice Johnson.)
(Myers communicating) It [i.e. a word beginning with the
letter D which MyerSp had just told Mrs V^errall he had
been trying to make her write. This word was “ Dwarf”.]
I thought came out as Dianna but it was not right. It
I thought came
^ Mrs Verrall’s script of April 9, 1907 contained a reference to a birthday
party of the late Mrs Ellen Darwin’s. The surname was not, however,
mentioned, only the Christian name, Ellen.
[part
196 J. G. Piddington.
(Rector communicating)
change the machinery
Machine [i.e. the pencil.]
(Mrs Verrall gives her own pencil to the hand.)
Yes thank you.
(Myers communicating)
I referred to the word Dianna.
Mrs V. Is it “ Dreamer ” ?
Dianna but it was not right.
I thought you wrote it
look that up also.
Mrs V. I’ve written the word Diana, I’m quite sure,
recently
Mrs V. Some time ago.
Yes I told her [i.e. Mrs Sidgwick] so but she said no.
Mrs V. Then she was wrong ;
twice I had a reference to her
—
once a longish time ago to her name and another time
to a Latin poem of Diana.
Yes I was sure you had U.D. me and that you had registered
it. M^e must try to do better and she must be sure of
what you do write, it is so much easier for me when
I say I know that you did get a word for her to U.D.
otherwise I keep on trying at the same word again
therefore you must make it clear to her and vice versa.
There can be no doubt that the fir.st part of the script written
by Mrs Verrall on Feb. 27, 1907, which I give below, centres
round one idea and one only, the goddess Diana.
nemorum custos fluitantia super stagna
alarum sine lemigio volitans nunc
et semper preces ausculta
[guardian of the woods above the flowing pools
without oarage of wings flitting,
now and always hear our prayers.]
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 197
mother of months—and then hollows and windy places.
It is a poem to Spring but onlj’ part is wanted
lMO^^TIUM GUSTOS
Dianam tenerae dicite virgines
[guardian of the mountains; sing Diana youthful maids.]
I cannot get the meaning clear. I will try again.
nemorum custos and Montiiim custos are reminiscences of
Hor. Car. Ill, 22, an ode to Diana, which opens with the
words ;
“ Montium custos nemorumque, Virgo.”
Dianam tenerae dicite virgines is a quotation of the first line
of Hor. Car. I, 21 : an ode to Diana and Apollo.
There seem to be echoes, too, of Catullus C. XXXIV, where
Diana is called
“ Montium domina ....
Silvarumque virentium
Saltuumque reconditorum
Amniumque sonantum.”
Mother of months is from Swinburne’s Atalanta. in Calydon
:
“ When the hounds of spring are on winter’s traces.
The mother of months in meadow or plain
Fills the shadows and windy places
With lisp of leaves and ripple of rain.”
These lines are applied to an unnamed Nature goddess, not
actually Diana, but clearly possessing some of her leading-
attributes. In Hor. C. IV. 6, 38-40 Diana is spoken of both as
the goddess of the moon and as “ she who prospers the fruits
of the earth and is swift to roll the onward months ”
:
Noctilucam,
Prosperam frugum celeremque pronos
Volvere menses,
which comes very near to calling her “ mother ol' months ”.
And “mother of months”—“parens mensuni ”
—she is, under
her title of Luna, actually styled in Poet. Lat. Min. (Baehrens)
3; 1G3. Furthermore, the juxtaposition of the ideas of hunting
(“ the hounds of spring ”) and of the bringing forth of the
[part
lyS J. G. Piddington.
months makes it quite clear, although the Nature Goddess of
Swinburne’s poem is not specified, that Diana, goddess of the
moon and of the chase, cannot have been far from the poet’s
mind. And Swinburne must, one may almost say, have had
also in mind Catullus C. XXXIV, where Diana is addressed
not only as “ montium domina” but also in the same breath
as Nature Goddess and controller of months :
“ Tu cursu,
dea, menstruo Metiens iter annuum, Rustica agricolae bonis
Tecta frugibus exples.”
It is a 'poem to S'pring. I take this to refer to the poem
from Atalanta in Calydon ;
and hut o'lihg part is tvanted to
mean that only the particular lines alluding to the “ mother
of months ” are significant, because they alone suggest the god-
dess Diana.
Certain similarities to the statements made in the Piper
trance in connection with the “ Diana ” experiment are to be
found also in
Mrs VerralVs sc'ript of March lo, 1907.
Echo e Baccante
vofxaSe^ et agrestes in urbanos irruperunt magno cum
clamore evoe clamantium Dina dos dvdSos d a-oi eSwKa
[nomads and country folk attacked the townsmen with a
great shout of people shouting “ evoe ”...
what I liave given you.]
no he does not understand.
Say it again.
Diva the goddess stayed the rout with green branches
they were coming when Bircham Wood shall come to
Dunsinane a moving wood it was. It is the invasion of
a white shining marble city by a green and furious rout
of revellers and the goddess stayed the slaying of her
folk. But the green revellers have the truth on their
side, the ultimate truth, and the arresting goddess is
but a white sham. Remember that the story comes from
the victorious, or at least undefeated few — the swarming
horde saw no vision of gods, and the city they left was
empty as well as clean.
I should like to hear the unauthorised version of this
tale—ask your husband if he knows it. Evoe is in the
199
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
end triumphant though that too brings its own loss.
Tell him to look further for the issue beyond what
he now sees—not to read further but to think further,
—
above all to hold to his thought. But leave all that
mythology out of the question—it has no place here.
On March 4 Mrs. Verrall had written a piece of script
referring to some point in a passage of the Hercules Furens
of Euripides (v. p. 213) which the scribe had suggested that
Dr Verrall should think over. The allusion here to another
classical subject seems to have led to a repetition of this sug-
gestion ;
and the concluding phrase :
“ But leave all that
mythology out of the question—it has no place here” : seems
distinctly connected with the phrase in the script of March 4,
“ not to mind the mythology but to .see another point” in the
earlier reference to the Hercules Farens.
Leaving then the last paragraph out of consideration, what
can we make of the rest ?
Two distinct stories seem to be confused : one a story of
an attack on some townspeople by a crowd of Bacchic
revellers ;
the other a story of the saving of a white shining
marble city by a goddess. Jumbled up with these two tales are
allusions to Macbeth.
Mrs Verrall and my.self have taken a good deal of trouble
to find out if there is any legend where a goddess intervenes
to save her people from an attack by Bacchanalian revellers
;
and to the best of our knowledge none such exists.
If the Bacchic elements and the Macbeth allusions are
eliminated, the residue can be appropriately referred to the
legend of the miraculous repulse of the attack on Delphi by
the Gauls in 279 B.C.
With these eliminations the scri])t would run thus :
Diva the goddess stayed the rout It is the invasion
of a white shining marble city and the
goddess stayed the slaying of her folk. But
the arresting goddess is but a white sham. Remember
that the story comes from the victorious, or at least
undefeated few—the swarming horde saw no vision of
gods, and the city they left was empty as well as
clean.
200 [part
J. 0. Piddington.
I will now quote parts of J. G. Frazer’s translation of Pau-
sanias, Bk. X, 23, which contains the account of the attack on
Delphi by the Gauls under Brennus :
—
“ Brennus lost not a moment, hut ... . marched on Delphi.
The trembling inhabitants betook themselves to the oracle,
and the god bade them have no fear, ‘For’, said he,
‘
I will myself guard my own ’.
Meanwhile the Greeks who had mustered at Delphi drew
out in order of battle against the army of Brennus, and
soon to confound the barbarians the god sent signs and
wonders, the plainest that ever were seen. For all the
ground occupied by the army of the Gauls quaked
violently most of the day, and thunder rolled and
lightning dashed continually, the claps of thunder stunning
the Celts and liindering them from hearing the words of
command, while the bolts from heaven set dre not only
to the men upon whom they fell, but to all who were
near them, men and arms alike Such were
the suderings and terrors by which the barbarians
were beset all that livelong day ;
and the fate that was
in store for them in the night was more dismal far. For
a keen frost set in, and with the frost came snow, and
great rocks slipping from Parnassus, and crags break-
ing od‘, made straight for the barbarians, crushing to
death not one or two, but thirty or more at a blow.
At sunrise the Greeks advanced upon them from
Delphi. All except the Idiocians came straight on ;
but
the Phocians, more familiar with the ground, descended
the precipices of Parnassus through the snow, and getting
in the rear of the Celts unperceived, showered their darts
and arrows on the barbarians in perfect security.”
Fiazer comments on this:
“ The oracle vouchsafed to the Delphians by Apollo on the
approach of the Gauls is said to have been this :
‘
I
and the white maidens will care for these matters ’. The
‘white maidens’ were generally supposed to be Artemis
and Athena, who were said to have appeared in person
along with Apollo fighting on the side of the Greeks.
Why the goddesses were called ‘
white ’
is doubtful ;
Cicero seems to refer the epithet to the snow-storm which
contributed to the overthrow of the Gauls.”
201
LVli.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
It is the words “ the arrestinor o-oddess is but a white sharn
”
O O
which make it certain, to my mind at least, that the allusion
in the script is to the legend described above. The rationalising
Cicero regarded the arresting goddess as a “ white sham ”,
interpreting the “white maidens” as the snow-storm.
But, gi’anted that this identification is right, how is the
Bacchic element in the script to be accounted for ?
1 imagine that the scribe was from the first trying to get
the automatist to describe the story of the miraculous defence
of Delphi in order to introduce a reference to Artemis. Dr
Yerrall was about to deliver two lectures in London on the
BaccJtae of Euripides, and this doubtless was occupying the
automatist’s normal consciousness to some degree ;
and so, when
the scribe tried to impress her with another classical subject, the
two subjects got commingled with the result seen in the script.
The first attempt to express “Diana” is made in the words
“Dina dos avdoo?”.
“
Dina ” is, of course, very near “ Diana
The words dvdoo<s [sic] d a-oi eSwKu can hardly be translated,
at least so as to make sense. If dvdoos is taken as the impera-
tive of uvaSiSwfxi the words would mean “Give up”, or,
“ distribute what I have given you ”
;
and there is not much
apparent sen.se in that. But the imperative singular of dvuoloco/iu
would be accented on the last syllable and not, as in the sciipt,
on the penultimate.
If we suppose that the scribe was trying to make the auto-
matist write “Diana”, I thirds we may see a meaning in this
curious and hybrid collocation of words. He succeeds in getting
“ Dina ” written, but not being satisfied with this appi'oximation
to the name he drops into Greek and says to a collaborator
:
dos (i.e. (5o?) uvd, i.e. “give the sound ‘ana’”; and then adds
Soi <1 <joL eowKa, i.e. “ give what I gave you He then abandons
that way of trying to get the word or idea “ Diana ” expressed
no he does not understand ”) and starts afresh and on a
slightly difierent tack ;
“ Sa\^ it again. Diva the goddess ” etc.
This interpretation will not sound so far-fetched to those
who are accptainted with the tortuous way in which names
and words are often brought out in the script of Mrs Piper
—
words or names, I mean, which have real significance and
202 [PAKT
J. G. Piddington.
which must have been supernormally acquired—and with the
fact, however we may account for it, that both in Mrs Verrall’s
and Mrs Piper’s scripts the phenomena claim to be produced,
and consistent!}' exhibit the appeara.nce of being produced, by
tlie collaboration of several people, whose remarks to one another
and asides get accidentally registered by the automatist among
the intentionally recorded communications. When, then, I sug-
gest, the scribe realised that he had failed to get the word
“ Diana ” written he started afresh and tried to work in the
notion of a goddess, and in such a manner as to suggest the
goddess Artemis.
Note the threefold repetition of the word “goddess” preceded
by “ Diva,” the Latin for “ goddess ”, all within seven lines.
(Cf for similar reiterations pp. 98, 178, and 223.) The word
“ diva ” is, moreover, suggestive because it has three letters
in common with Diana, and because Diva and Diana are
both derived from the same root. It may be advisable to
add tliat this interpretation of the script of March 13 is my
own and not Mrs Verrall’s, who never connected her script
of Feb. 27 with that of March 13.
But what are the references to Dunsinane and Bircham (an
obvious blunder for Birnam) wood doing among these classical
allusions? I think that there can be no doubt that they
were derived Aom a script of Mrs Holland’s containing
allusions to Macbetlt and Artemis, which Mrs Verrall had
seen. This script I shall quote and discuss presently.
I was curious to learn whether Mrs Verrall had any theory
as to who “ Diva the goddess ” was ;
so on April 3, 1907 I
wrote her the following postcard :
—
Will you let me know who you take “Diva the goddess” to be
in your script of March 13?
She replied on April 4 :
—
Diva. I can give no name to this. There is no goddess in the
Bacchic legend, which is what the thing seems to refer to
I take it to be Diva = the goddess (unnamed). There is a great
myth about Apollo saving Delphi, and I think that a goddess is
joined in that story, probably Artemis ;
and I have a vague
impression that Athena once personally intervened. But I have no
knowledge, and no books here.
O J
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 203
The date of the first mention in the trance of “Diana” as
the subject of a cross-correspondence experiment suits the dates
of the two allusions to Diana in Mrs Verrall’s script. Her first
“Diana” script, that of Feb. 27, concluded with the words:
“ I cannot get the meaning cleai’. I will try again.” The
result of the scribe’s second attempt is to be seen, apparently,
in the script of March 13, which was begun at 11 a.m. There
would have been time, therefore, for the trance-personalities to
have announced during the sitting of March 13, which did
not end till after 1 yrm., the fact that “Diana” had been
written by Mrs Verrall. But this sitting—one of the best of
the series—was fully occupied with other matters. The next
two sittings after March 13 were those of March 18 and
19; and on March 19 Hodgsoiip made the first reference to
“Diana” in Mrs Piper’s trance.
The word when first given in the trance by Hodgson
p
was written “ Dianna ”
;
the second reference to it was made
by Myersp and then the word was spelt correctly ;
but the
next time that Myersp mentioned the subject the word was
spelt “Dianna” again, and in his final reference it was thrice
spelt with two n’s. It would have been tempting to attribute
the double n to the amanuensis, “ good old Rector ” (to quote
Myer.Sp) “ who does not understand a word of Latin”, were it
not that on the only occasion on which Rector refers on his
own initiative to this experiment he spells the word correctly.
In one cross-correspondence experiment initiated by Hodgsonp
the word “tranquility” [sic] was said to have been given
to Mrs Verrall and it was explained that the word was pur-
posely spelt with only one 1. It is therefore just possible that
in this case the double n was intentional, but I do not think
it probable, because if the mistake had been intentional the
intention would have been declared as in the case of the
word tranc|uility.^
The variants “Dianea”, “Den Diana” “Annie” etc. may
have been prompted by Mrs Sidgwick’s remark: “I think she
wrote something like it, but not quite Diana”; .so I am not
1 Misspellings are not infrequent in the Piper script: e.g. “ infalibility ”,
“evesdropping”, “ colledge ”, “loose” for “lose”, “controled”, “satelite”,
“ Halceon ”, “Illiard” for “Iliad” etc.
204 J. G. Piddington. [part
inclined to regard them as attempts to describe what I do
consider to be an attempt at the name Diana in Mrs Verrall’s
script of March 13—I mean “Dina dos drado?”.
What strikes me as far more spontaneous is the [persistence
with which MyerSp ])ursned his enquiry whether Mrs Verrall
had I'eceived the word. From Mrs Sidgwick (who could give
only such information as I supplied her with) he could get
no definite response ;
but when Mrs Verrall appears on the
scene he seizes the opportunity to get information from the
fountain head. I think this is really rather I’emarkable, inas-
much as it exhibits the trance-pei'sonality maintaining an
attitude of confidence and conviction in the face of the scant
encourao'ement which was all that Mrs Sidgwick could oive.^
It will be seen that Mrs Verrall stated to Myersp that she
had twice had a reference in her script to Diana, “once a
longish time ago to her name, and another time to a Latin
poem of Diana ”. She was referring in the first instance to
her script of Jan. 7, 1007, which so far I have not quoted,
and in the second to the script of Feb. 27, of which a copy
has been given above.
The script of Jan, 7 runs as follows:
—
(Scribbles.) Obsolescit. [it is obsolete.]
Jacob’s letter was wanted
the last is better
then I see three words written in a pretty woman’s hand
three words the last is the longest
Diana is pleased
Here conies a candle to light you to bed.
^For an example of similar confidence cf. ‘•'Library” p 55.
•205
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms.
The long interval between the date of this script and the
first reference in the Piper trance to “Diana”; the probability
that Diana would appear as a Christian name in Mrs A^errall’s
script, since it is the Christian name of Mrs Forbes, with
whose automatic script Mrs Verrall’s has shown a good many
coincidences ;
the fact that the words “ Diana is pleased
”
are naturally referi'ed to a living human being and not to a
Roman goddess ;
and the casual and cursory way in which
the words are introduced : these four considerations, I say,
make it unlikely that the appearance of the name Diana in
the script of Jan. 7 had anything to do with the cross-
correspondence experiment first announced at the sitting of
March 19. And it is particularly the last of these four
considerations which weighs with me. For a mere casual
occurrence of the name Diana in Mrs Veri-all’s script to have
counted as a cross-correspondence it was essential for it to
have synchronised, or nearly so, with the announcement of
the expei’iment on Mai'ch 19 ;
or else to have been accompanied
by a phrase which meant that it was the subject of a cross-
correspondence experiment, or to have been emphasised by
repetition or by large letters. In the scripts of Feb. 27 and
March 13 such emphasis is thrown by the way in which the
scribe returns avain and again to the charge and circles
round the idea of Diana. Yet I cannot dismiss the script of
Jan. 7 without first discussing it in connection with some words
which were written automatically by Mrs Holland on Jan. 16,
1907. Mrs Holland’s script of this date I’eads as follows:
—
& to-morrow—and to-morrow and to-morrow
—
Out out brief candle
—
A dull consciousness of a confused roaring sound of voices
—
rather like the voice of the sea—A sound that arrives
in waves like the sound of the sea.
It was the sitting attitude that induced the fatal syncope
irndoubtedly Henry
No—not Henry S. F (?)•
A long procession winding along a narrow street. Little
skipping children showering flowers—an anachroni.sm
perhaps but a pretty one
—
206 [part
J. G. Fiddington.
Artemis—Artemis hear us Ionian Artemis !
And the arms rose as the voices rose and sank again with
them.
Maud Carten —Carter not a relation—but an old acquain-
tance Dorothy
—
cO to-morrow—and to-morroiv and to-morrow—is, but for
the superfluous and the punctuation, a textual quotation
from Macbeth, as is also Out out brief candle ;
and both
quotations come from the short speech uttered by Macbeth
immediately before the Messenger enters and says to him :
“ I
look’d toward Birnam, and anon, methought, The wood began
to move
Artemis, Artemis, hear us Ionian Artemis
!
is clearly a
I’eminiscence of a line in Tennyson’s ])lay Tlw Cap—“ArtemiS)
Artemis, hear him, Ionian Artemis”—which is chanted by the
chorus of priestesses, children, populace and soldiers after
Synorix has besought the blessing of Artemis upon his marriage
with Gamma.
From the same play, too, evidently comes the allusion to
the procession of children showering flowers, and the descrip-
tion of the anns risino- as the voices rose ;
though the narrow
street and the skipping of the children are apparently accretions
for which the automatist or the scribe must be held responsible.
I quote the relevant stage-directions from Act II :
—
Caunma aaid all th.e Priestesses kneel, raise their hands to
the Goddess and boiv dovm."
“ Enter a p)rocession of Priestesses and Children bringing
garlands and goblets, and strewing flowers.”
The conjunction of allusions to MacbetJi, The Gup, and a
“ Henry ” was, perhaps, due to an association of ideas with
Henry Irving, who produced, and acted in, these two plays.
Between Mrs Holland’s script of Jan. 16—written on a day
of the week, Wednesday, on which Mrs Holland regularly
aimed at getting en rapp>ort with Mrs Verrall—and Mrs
Verrall’s script of Jan. 7, we And, then, two verbal, or
pi'actically verbal, coincidences: “Artemis” (
= Diana) and
“candle” on the one hand, “Diana” and “candle” on the
other.
But these are not the only points contained in Mrs Holland’s
207
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
script of Jail. 16 which suggest a connection—-vague, but still
not to be disregarded—not, it is true, with Mrs Verrall’s script,
but with things said to her and her daughter at sittings with
Mrs Piper.
'When Miss Verrall sat with Mrs Piper on Dec. 24, 1906,
Hodgsonp asked her if “Marion Carver was all right”, and just
befoi’e this remarked incidentally that some one named Dorothy
who “has been here a long time” was interrupting him and
trying to have a peep at the sitter. Miss Verrall under.stood
the reference to Marion Carver, but not that to “Dorothy”.
On Jan. 14 Hodgsonp explained to Mrs Verrall that Dorothy
was a friend of Miss Verrall’s “ who passed out years ago ”, and
added that she had a sister Marion still living, and there is
little doubt that this Marion is intended for the same person as
Marion Carver. It is true (though the fact may perhayis have been
known to Mrs Piper) that a Miss Marion Carver was a friend
both of the Verrall and of the Myers families, and was also
known to Dr Hodgson. It appears that the statement about
“ Dorothy ” is incorrect. The point, however, which I want
to bring out is that these two names were connected with
Miss Verrall in the Piper trance, and that the most definite
statements about them were made on Jan. 14. A few hours
after her sitting on this date Mrs Verrall wrote automatically :
—
“ Leave Dorothy for remembrance Dolly a child’s picture book
and a child in it”; and tliough this throws no light on the
meaning of “Dorothy” it clearly is related to the Dorothy
mentioned by Hodgsonp. Now in Mrs Holland’s script of
Jan. 16, written, it must be borne in mind, on a day on
which by ])revious arrangement Mrs Holland was to try for
communications which would have relevance for Mrs Verrall,
occur the words ;
—
“ Maud Carten—Cartel' not a relation —but an old accpiain-
tance Dorothy.”
Maud Carter is not unlike Marion Carver; and “not a
relation —but an old acquaintance ” accurately describes the
relation in which Miss Carver and Miss Verrall stood to each
other. I admit that the coincidence is slight, but it is some-
what enhanced by the close association of “ Maud Carter
”
with “ Dorothy ”.
208 [PAKT
./. G. Piddington.
Mrs Holland’s script of Jan. 10 was shown to Mrs Verrall
on Feb. 23. This fact may, I think, fully account for Diana’s
having formed the subject of Mrs Verrall’s script of Feb. 27 ;
and while it hardly explains satisfactorily her scribe’s revived
interest in the subject two weeks later, it does explain why,
when the subject was revived, allusions to Macbeth were con-
joined with allusions to Artemis. But though Mrs Verrall’s
normal acquaintance with Mrs Holland’s script of Jan. 16
explains this much, it in no way accounts for the knowledge
manifested in I\Irs Piper’s trance of the fact that Mrs Verrall’s
script had referred to Diana; nor does it account for the other
coincidences between Mrs Piper, Mrs Holland and Mrs Verrall.
In fact I think we have here two distinct groups of cross-
correspondences : (1) consisting of “candle”, “Diana” (Mrs
Verrall, Jan. 7), “candle”, “Artemis”, “Maud Carter”,
“Dorothy” (Mrs Holland, Jan. 16) and “Marion Carver”,
“Ilorothy” (Mrs Piper, Dec. 24); (2) consisting of “Diana”,
“Artemis” (Mrs Veri'all, Feb. 26 and March 13) and “Diana”
(Ml'S Piper, March 19).
It is an interesting fact that Mrs Verrall never consciously
saw any connection between her script of March 13 and Mrs
Holland’s of Jan. 16. M^hen she read the latter she recognised
“ To-moirow and to-morrow and to-morrow ” and “ Out, out,
brief candle” as quotations from Macbeth, and took the com-
bination of the two to be an allusion to Mr Myers’s death, on
or near the anniversary of which, Jan. 17, similar allusions
have regularl}' occurred each year in Airs Holland’s script
;
but she did not notice that the “Artemis” and “candle” of
Airs Holland’s script of Jan. 16 corresponded with the “Diana”
and “ candle” of her own script of Jan. 7.
lvil] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 209
XV.
“HEAA^EX LIES ABOUT US IX OUR IXEAXCY ” AXD
“EAITH, HOPE AXD CHAEmA”
Extract from record of words spolcen in the ivahinrj-stage of
Mrs Piper's trance of April 10, 1907,
(Preceding utterances connected solely with the sitter, Mrs.
Forbes.)
Oh ! well.
I’ll go fetch him.
Don’t hurry so. Don’t worry so. Don’t hurry—don’t worry
and I’ll write out those lines for you
Past—(a line of verse not caught)
Farewell. Addio.
I did the best I could for him. R.H.
Heaven lies about us plain to see and infinite (?)
Oh !
(expression of pleased surprise.)
Well, well, where do you come from ?
Mr. Myers (?)
Heaven lies about us in our infancy.
And all across. The cross.
Oh ! Why do you all run away ?
Who are . . . ?
a lady and Myers and Hodgson.
Airs Verrall’s sci’ipt of Dec. 5, 1901 had contained the
following :
—
Then there is a line of verse to be remembered Heaven
lies about us in our infancy—that has a special quite a
special association,
repeat the line again
It has been written down, go on to the next trial
O
This passage had, however, been published in Proceedings,
Vol. XX. p. 73, which contains a report by Airs A^errall on
o
210 J. G. Piddington. [part
her automatic writing; and this report had been seen by Mrs
Piper. For this reason no value attaches either to this or to
the next case.
In the course of the sitting with Mrs Piper held on March 20
IMyerSp said that “Mr Sidgwick gave her” [i.e. Mrs Verrall]
“ a Greek woi'd which translated meant no man ;
and he also
said Faith hope charity”.
For the appearance in Mrs Verrall’s script of “ Faith, Hope
and Charity” in connection with Di- Sidgwick see Proceedings,
Vol. XX. p. 297.
Had these two references not occurred, it would have looked
as though the trance-personalities had deliberately refrained
from alluding to published passages in Mrs Verrall’s script.
To have so refrained would have implied that the}^ possessed
far greater familiarity with the publications of the S.P.R. than
it would be reasonable to impute to them, if they are really
intelligences discrete from Mrs Piper’s normal personality.
XVI.
“ EUPJPIDES.”
Ix the course of the sitting of April 8, which was attended by
l\lrs Sidgwick only, Myersp said that he had drawn a star and
also a crescent “through the other light” (v. p. 362). Mrs
Sidgwick then asked him if he could name the poem of
Browning’s connected with the “Hope, Star and Browning”
message, and M}^ersp gave a confused reply. From this point
I quote the record ;
—
(Myei’s communicating) Did you U.D. about the + and star
E. M. S. The cross and star 1
Yes.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
E. M. S. I don’t know that I did.
211
I told you I gave + + [i.e. two crosses]
E. M. S. Yes, you did.
to her [i.e. Mrs. Verrall] did you see them.
E. M. S. Xo, I have not seen them.
Do you remember euripides (?)
E. M. S. What is that ? “ Euripides ” 1
I meant to say Harold
E. M. S. “ Harold ” ?
yes well.
E. M. S. To whom did you say “ Harold ” ?
to Mrs. V.
After this Myersp says that he tried to give other words
and phrases to Mrs Verrall ;
in fact he took up a good part
of this sitting with announcing words and messages which
he had tried to give through Mrs Verrall.
It will be noticed that against the word “ Euripides ” a query
was placed in the record.
With regard to the reading “Euripides” Mrs Sidgwick wrote
on October 10, 1907 :
“ I read it at the time as Euripides at
once, and I believe that I only queried it afterwards because
of its ridiculous irrelevance and because it had not been
formally accepted when I read it out. I feel sure I knew
nothing about the name having occurred in Mrs Verrall’s
script. I should have been interested in its appearance if
I had.”
Mrs Sidgwick sent me a tracing of the original, and T have
no doubt that Euripides is the true reading.
The phrase “ Do you remember ”, which is not an obvious
one with which to introduce an enquiry about a cross-
correspondence, is, however, used in this same sitting for that
very purpose : viz. “ Do you remember Spirit and Angel. I
212 [part
J. G. Picldington.
gave both ” (v. p. 220). In its context this can only mean
that Myersp said that he had given “
Spirit and Angel
”
to Mrs Verrall; and, if further proof is needed, a few lines
later Myersp added :
“ Nearly all the words I have written
today are with reference to messages I am trying to give
through Mrs V.”
o
In view of the fact that Mrs Verrall got two clear references
to Euripides and that Mrs Holland also got a reference to
Euripides which corresponded closely with Mrs Verrall’s, I am
inclined to think that the mention of Euripides at this sitting,
occurring as it did at a point where MyerSp was explicitly
announcing and making enquiries about several experiments
which he had recently been trying with i^lrs Verrall, should
be attributed to supernormal activity and not to chance. It
was given in a context that had nothing in it, so far as I
can see, to suggest Euripides or the sound of his name, or to
suggest the idea of any classical author or of a classical allusion.
Besides Euripides only two classical authors, Homer and
Plotinus, were spontaneously referred to by the trance-per-
sonalities during the sittings given by Mi’s Piper in England,
and both of these allusions were veridical (v. pp. 132 and 136).
The word “ Harold ”, which was substituted spontaneously for
“Euripides”, does not resemble the latter either in form or
sound. If, however, we assume some community of consciousness
to exist between Myersp Myersy and Myersn, it is not difficult
to discover a plausible explanation of why this misplaced refer-
ence to Euripides emerged in the sitting of April 8. Assuming
the identity in some sort of these three personalities, I suggest
that MyerSp was on April 8 aware that in Mrs Verrall’s
script there had already appeared refei’ences to Euripides ;
and
that while he was mentioning at this sitting other words or
phrases which he had impressed on Mrs Verrall’s mind he was
involuntarily reminded of “Euripides”. Moreover, just before
'I understand the words “I meant to say Harold,” which immediately
followed the phrase “Do you remember Euripides?”, to mean that Euripides
had been written in error for “Harold”. That is the most natural interpre-
tation; but the words “I meant to say Harold” may introduce an entirely
new subject distinct from the preceding allusion to Euripides.
213
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
the mention of Euripides was made on A]>ril S, Myersp had
been connecting the “ Hope, Star and Browning ” message which
he had given to Mrs Verrall with an unspecified poem of
Browning’s. Now Mrs Holland’s reference to Euripides is
closely connected, as will appear, with one of Browning’s
poems, and if the “Myers” who mentioned “Euripides”
through Mrs Piper also inspired Mrs Holland’s reference to
Euripides, we can see how an allusion to one of Browning’s
poems might have suggested “ Euripides ” to him.
The scripts of Mrs Verrall which refer to Euripides were
written on March 4 and March 25, 1907, and read as
follows :
—
March 4, 1907.
IxaLi'ojievos 6 'HpaKA?;g [Heracles is mad]
Hercules Furens [The mad Hercules.] Tell your husband
from me. there is a passage in the Heracles not under-
stood, about the pillar and the tying to it. An old story
lies behind that but it means something in Euripides
that A W V [i.e. Dr. A. \Y. Verrall] has not yet seen.
Tell him to look at it again —it is the passage about the
pillar and the thong—the pillar at the foot of \vh. lay
the dead children. Tell your husband to read that again
—
not to mind the mj^hology but to see another point wh.
will please him.
I have long wanted to say this but the words were never
there—now all the words are there and I think 1 have
made the meaning clear ask elsewhere for the BOUND
HERCULES.
'HpttK-Aj;? Avo/xerog [Unbound Heracles] is the secprel.
Binding and loosing Secrp,oto-t Aurotg [with loosed fetters]
not adamantine fetters but fetters that link and loose. Some-
thing about snapping his bonds in sunder. Tell AWV he
will understand.
juaiuojuepog 6 'UpaicXij^. The Greek title of the play usually
known by its Latin title of Hercides Farens is 'Ilpa/cX);?
uaipo/aepoi-
214 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Part of Mrs Verrall’s scri2)t of March 25, 1907.
Claviger the bearer of the Key and Club clavem
gerens trans Pontem
trans Hellespontem et insuper mare
ad urbem antea Byzaiitineam postea de ipsius nomine
nominatam.
[bearing the key beyond the Bridge beyond Helle’s bridge
and over the sea to the city formerly Byzantine after-
wards called from his own name.]
The Club and Key —East and West, look for the Eastern
sign of the Club ex pede Herculem The Hercules story
comes in there and the clue is in the Euripides play if you
could only see it.
Bound to the pillar—I told you before of Sebastian, it is
the same story of the archer and the binding to the
pillar.
Claviger in the sense of “club-bearer” is an epithet applied
to Hercules; in the sense of “key-bearer” it is not applied to
Hercules, but to Janus. The remainder of the script, quoted
on p. 222, corresponds, as I believe, to a cross-corresponding
message, “Spirit”, .said by Myersp on April 8, a short time
after the mention of Euripides, to have been given to Mrs
Verrall. If \ve suppose that the personality who mentioned
“Euripides” and “Spirit” in close succession in Mrs Piper’s
trance of April 8 was the inspirer of Mrs Verrall’s script of
March 25, which certainly refers to Euripides and probably
to “Spirit”, we can see bow it may have come about that the
allusion to Euri[)ides on April 8 led this personality to allude
shortl}^ afterwards to “ S|)irit ”.
Although, for the purpose of dealing with the two cross-
correspondences “Euripides” and “Angel”, I thus divide into
two parts the script of March 25, both parts were, I believe
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 215
really connected. What the connection was is discussed in
Section XIX. pp. 259-60.
There is no other reference in Mrs VeiTall’s automatic writing
during the period under review either to Euripides or to the
Hercules Fnrens ;
the two scripts evidently belong together,
and there can be no question that they both relate to some
passage in the Hercules Fnrens of Euripides.
It is in Mrs Holland’s script of April 16, 1907 that I tind
a passage which corresponds with Mrs Verrall’s scripts of March
4 and 25. As it embraces a variety of disconnected topics,
it is unnecessary to quote it in full, and the concluding para-
graphs will suffice.
A very commonplace room—like lodgings in a quiet neigh-
bourhood
Bayswater—no Bloomsbury— Horsehair furniture under the
chintz covers— Is she asleep ? No she’s talking— That
chimney smokes.
Henry—not the elder one—the other.
Leopold Lucus. [<]
(In mirror writing) Margaret
To hy to find Euripides Philemon
—
I want you to understand me but I have so few chances
to speak — it’s like waiting to take a ticket and I am
always pushed away from the pigeonhole before I can infiuence
her mind— No the scribe’s —
^
A peck of pickled pepper
—
-
E. M. must be careful this spring—E. N.
A faint far arlimmer
—
O
a flickerin" lisrht
—
O O
Five different influences
have tried to write
—
This is the only time that Euripides or any Greek or Latin
classical writer is mentioned in Mrs Holland’s script during the
period under review.
^In Mrs Holland’s script “the scribe” apparently means the automatist.
Mrs Verrall in Proc. Vol. XX., and I in this paper mean by “the scribe”
the “I” who purports to be the author of the script.
-Miss Johnson tells me she has no doubt that this phrase is a punning
allusion to Mrs Piper, to whom other references occur in Mrs Holland's
script about this time.
216 [part
J. G. Pidclington.
It is certain that the words from “ Lucus ” down to “ Phile-
mon” hang together. I have little doubt that “Leopold”
belongs also. Just as “Harold” is closely conjoined in the
trance of April 8 with “ Euripides ”, so here “ Leopold ” is con-
joiued with “Euripides”. The significance of these conjunctions
lies in the fact that “Leopold” and “ Harold” are the names of
Frederic Myers’s two sous. The name of his only daughter, Silvia,
was appended to a ])hrase in anothei' script of Mrs Holland’s
which, though not obviously, is indirectly connected with
“ Euripides” (v. Section XIX. p. 261); and the intention of this
conjunction of the names of Myers’s children with these three
different passages—between two of which there was no super-
ficial connection—was, as I understand it, to give a clue to
their interdependence. The matter is further explained in
Section XIX. p. 278.
Against “ Lucus ” I have placed a quei y, though four letters
out of the five are certain. The penultimate alone is doubtful,
being in the original smudged with ink. In order to obtain
an independent opinion I asked Mr Bickford-Smith to examine
Mrs Holland’s script of April 16, and to say how he read the
word after “ Leopold ”, I of course not giving any hint of how
I read it and Mr Bickford-Smith knowing nothing of my
reason for asking. At the first glance he said “ the word is
Lucas ”. He then at my suggestion examined the word under
a magnifying glass with the result that he read the fourth
letter as “ u ” instead of “ a He observed that the glass
brought out the distinction between the strokes made by the
pen and the smudge made by the ink. This exactly agreed
with the opinion I had previously formed after looking at the
word with the aid of a magnifying glass.
One of the characters in the Hercules Fiirens is AJ/co?, a
name which would usually be transliterated as “Lj'cus” or
“ Lycos ”, the y representing the Greek ^i. Robert Browning,
however, had a habit of representing the Greek u by the English
u ;
thus in his transcript of Euri[)ides’ Hercules Furens he writes
“ Luk os ” for Lycus, “ Amphitruon ” for Amphitryon, “ Lutta
”
foi- Lytta, “ Bnux ” for Pnyx, and so on. The “ Lucus ” of Mrs
Holland’s script is a sort of comj)romise between Browning’s
“ Lukos ” and the usual L}'cus or Lycos. But, it may be
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 217
thought, this dragging in of Browning is entirely gratuitous.
Not at all ;
for tlie reference in Mrs Holland’s script is clearly
not to the original play but to Browning’s version of it, as is
shown by the introduction of the name “ Philemon Philemon
is not a character in the oi’iginal play, nor is he for that matter
in Browning’s translation of the play ;
but “ Philemon ” is
closely associated with Browning’s AristoiAianes Ajyology
,
which
contains the transcript of the Hermdes Furens of Eurijiides,
in this way :
—In Aristophanes Apology Balaustion tells to
Philemon the story of how, on the night on which news
of the death of Euri])ides reached Athens, Aristophanes, flushed
with wine and with the success of his Thesmoplioriazousae,
came to her house and there justified his attacks on the dead
poet; and of how, the apology ended, Balaustion read to
Aristophanes and the assembled company the Hercides Furens,
the original tablets of which Euripides had presented to her
as a parting gift. The poem ends by Balaustion telling
Philemon that she sent the original tablets to Dionysius
tyrant of Sicily, who placed them in a teni])le of Apollo with
this inscription
:
“ I also loved
The poet. Free Athenai chea|jly prized
—
King Dionusios,—Archelaos-like ”.
Balaustion then asks Philemon
“ If he too have not made a votive verse !
”,
and Philemon replies
:
“ Grant, in good sooth, our great dead, all the same.
Retain their sense, as certain wise men say.
I’d hang myself—to see Euripides !
”.
The association then of Philemon with Browning’s verse-
translation of the Hercides Furens of Euripides is definite
enough; and the conjunction of “ Lucus ”, “Euripides” and
“ Philemon ” makes it certain that Mrs Holland’s script is
I’eferrino’ to Brownino-’s translation of the Hercules Furens.
O O
(Note, too, how the phrase “to fly to find Euripides” has a
flavour of Philemon’s “ I’d hang myself—to see Euripides ! ”.)
218 [part
J. G. Piddington.
The “ Margaret ”, written in mirror-writing, no doubt means
Mrs Venal],^ who is elsewhere referred to in Mrs Holland’s
script by her Christian name. There is an instance in the
Piper trance where “Margaret” was used, as I believe it was
here, to indicate that an attempt had been made to convey
the words to which it was attached to Mrs Verrall (v. p. 126;
and cf. p. 285, “ May Verrall).”
In Mrs Verrall’s script of March 4 there is an even plainer
indication that Euripides’ Hercules Fuvens was to be the
subject of a cross-corresjjondence experiment: “ask elsewhere
for the BOUND HERCULES.” (The binding of Hercules is
one of the episodes of the Hercules Fiirens.)
In the light of these facts the coincidence between the scripts
of Mrs Verrall and MVs Holland cannot be held to be accidental ;
and it has the air of a premeditated achievement. In neither
script is the communicator indicated; but I have no hesitation
in assigning the two scripts of Mrs Verrall to Myersy, as they
are analogous in style to the signed communications of this
personality. All that can be said in the case of Mrs Holland’s
script is that a classical allusion of the kind is far more
appropriate as coming from the grou]i of personalities of
whom “ Myers ” is the most prominent tlgure, than from any
other of the personalities who play a part in her automatic
writing.
Of the premeditation which I see displayed in the working-
out of the correspondence between Mrs Verrall and Mrs
Holland there is no sign in the words :
“ Do you remember
Euripides?” written by Mrs Piper in trance on A])ril 8. But
if, for the moment, we make the assumption that the person-
ality which calls itself “Myers” in all three scripts is one and
the same personality, a reason will suggest itself why Euripides
was mentioned in Mrs Piper’s trance and why this mention
was made in so casual, disconnected and undecided a manner.
On March 4, and again on March 25, Myer.Sy had written
about Euripides’ play, the Hercules Furens, through Mrs Verrall,
and on the earlier date had told the automatist to “ask else-
where for the Bound Hercules”: in other words had told her
that he is going to refer to the subject through another
1 Cf. Pi'oc. Fart LV. p. 313.
219
LVii.] ^4 Series of Concordant Aidomatisms.
automatist. His scheme at this date was not to impress the other
automatist with the idea in precisely the same way in which
he had impressed Mx’s Verrall, but, while retaining the central
idea, to present it in a slightly modified aspect, as was done
in other instances (cf. “Cup” pp. 191-2, “Thanatos” p. 298, and
“Spirit” pp. 220-7). He had already in his mind the design
to work the corresponding message through Mrs Holland by
making her allude not to the Hercules Farens of Euripides
but to Browning’s verse-translation of Euripides’ play. On
April 8 Myers in the course of communicating through Mrs
Piper has occasion to mention an unspecified poem of Browning’s
in connection with a message which he had previously given
to Mrs Verrall; and then shortly afterwards proceeds to
mention other messages which he had been trying to give to
her. By a natural association of ideas the references, made in
close succession, to Browning’s poem and to cross-correspondence
experiments with ^Irs Verrall remind him of the scheme he
has in hand for completing his Hercules Farens messsage (of
which the first half had already been given to Mrs Verrall)
by making Mrs Holland allude to Browning’s HeraJdes; and
hence his abrupt and spasmodic allusion to Euripides.
This way of putting it will, I fear, appear exce.ssively crude,
especially to the p.sychologist who loves long words ;
but I
do not see how eLse to express my meaning -without resorting
to roundabout and tiresome phraseology, which, if not too
obscure to convey any meaning at all, would only mean the
same thing.
It will be noticed that the simplest form of the common
idea appears in Mrs Piper’s script : the mere name Euripides.
In Mrs Verrall’s script the allusion to Euripides is accom-
panied by a variety of classical or mythological allusions.
In Mrs Holland’s script Euripides is expressed by means of
references to an English poet.
The differences in the normal contents of the minds of the
three automatists might, at first sight, seem to account very
easily for the different developments of the central idea bj'
Mrs Holland and Mrs Verrall and for its non-development by
Mrs. Piper. But in Section XIX. I shall show that the matter
is not quite so simple as that ;
and in any case we should.
220 J. G. Piddington. [part
I think, be well advised not to assume too hastily that this
variation in the presentment of the common subject depended
solely on the differences in the mental equipment of the three
automatists.
If these scripts were inspired by an external intelligence
able to realise the ca[iacities and the limitations of the
several automatists through whom he had to work, he may
have purposely refrained from pouring a quart measure into
a pint pot
;
for though part might have been held the essential
ingredient might have escaped with the overffow. If one
entrusts a message to a child one couches it in language suited
to his capacity. One might, of course, for the purpose of an
experiment deliberately give a child a string of difficult words
to see how far he could succeed in repeating it ;
but if one’s
sole or main aim were to have the message correctly delivered
one would give him only such words as he could easily retain
and pronounce.
XVII.
“SPIRIT AND ANGEL.”
As already described (v. p. 211), Myersp took up a good
part of the sitting of April 8 with announcing various words
which he had been trvino- to oive to Mrs Verrall. In the
»/ O O
course of this sitting, at which Mrs Sidgwick alone was
present, the following occurred : —
(Myers communicating) Do you remember. Spirit and
Angel.
I gave both
E. M. S. You gave that^
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Aidomatisvis. 221
Both, and
them
To (?) the stars.
(Eector communicating)
I got it quite clear E.
(A few lines later this is added :)
(Myers communicating)
Nearly all the words I have written today
are with reference to messages I am
trying to give through Mrs. V.
M.
E. M. S. Yes, I quite understand.
Mrs Sidgwick did not ask to whom “ Spirit and Angel ”
had been given, nor was there any need to do so, for the
preceding context had made it perfectly clear that Mrs. Yerrall
was meant.
What is not clear is whether “ I gave both ” means that
“Spirit” and “Angel” were given separately or were com-
bined in one experiment. The phrase used is susceptible of
either meaning, but I think that perhaps the more natural
interpretation is that they wei’e given on separate occasions.
The words “ Both, and them To the stars ” are not
easy to understand. I think the “them” was interpola.ted
to explain “ both ”, so that the phrase “ I gave both ” might
not be taken to mean that Myersp gave the vjord
“
Both ”.
Explanatory words are often inserted out of order in this
fashion by Rector to remove possible misunderstandings.
If this is the right explanation then the passage would
run thus
:
“ Do you remember Spirit and Angel ? I gave them both,
and To the Stars ”
;
the last being another cross-correspondence
message. Once later, at the sitting of April 17, the words
“To the Stars” are mentioned by Myersp among several other
words which he said he had been trying to give to i\lrs Yerrall.
222 [part
J. G. Piddington.
“Spirit and Angel” did not appear together in Mrs Verrall’s
automatic writing ;
but two separate pieces of her script, those
of March 25 and April 3, seem to express these two ideas.
I have already quoted the opening paragraphs of the script
of March 25 (v. Section XVI. p. 214), and so need give the
remainder only here. Immediately after the words “and the
binding to the pillar ” comes this
:
I want a special message to get to you. I have tried several
times, but you have not understood. I don’t know where
it went wrong. But let Piddington know when you get
a message about shadow,—remember the Yirgilian line
indignantis sub umbras. To you they are shadows
—
like the shadows in Plato’s cave but they are shadows of
the real.
quae cum vides bene comprenendere possis quae tibi nunc
fusco colore obdita paene obscurata videntur, et tamen in
somniis aliquando U M B R A R U M volitantia corpora
percipis—immo pro corporibus animas dicere melius
—
quae tibi per somnum mentem immortalia tangunt
haec cape, quis captis non desine
no not that
summum ad tingere comes in
[which when you see you will well understand what now
hidden wdth dark colour seems to you almost obscured
and yet in dreams sometimes you see the flitting bodies
of SHADE S—rather for bodies it were better to saj'
souls—the immortal things that touch your mind in
sleep
seize them and when they are seized do not cease (no not
that) “ to attain to the highest ” (reading “ attingere
”
for “ad tingere”) comes in.]
It means that there and thus does this mortal put on im-
mortality, by keeping hold of the things, the true things
seen in sleep. Why could he not say that ?
It seems simple enough to me.
et nos attingimus caelum [we too attain heaven.]
But when so many things Hit through the mind it is hard
to seize and hold what is true. I think I have this time.
Ask if he understands.
223
LVir.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
The sliadow of a shade.
that is better umbrarum umbras o-/ctas eiocoAor was
what I wanted to get written, goodbj'e.
Indignantis sub umbras is a wanton misquotation of the
last line of the Aeneid, which must have sorely vexed the
automatist’s supraliminal scholarship. In the original the line
runs thus :
“ Vitaque cum gemitu fugit indignata sub umbras.”
[And the disembodied spirit (vita) with a groan flees angry
to the shades.]
Let Piddington know when you get a message about
shadow is a clear intimation that this script purports to
embody a cross-correspondence.
Note the reiteration of the same idea involved in the
words “ shadow ”, five times repeated ;
“ umbrae ”, four times
repeated; “shade”; “animas”; o-Kidg; elSoAop
;
and, one may
add, “vita”, which must be supplied as the subject of indig-
nata (misquoted indignantis)-, and for similar repetitions of
the important word cf. pp. 98, 178, and 202.
Umbrae is constantl}^ used by the Augustan poets and by
post-Augustan prose-writers for the shade, ghost, or spirit of
a dead person ;
and the plural form is, moreover, used both
by Vergil and Ovid of the ghost of a single dead person,
and, indeed, I believe that the plural is as often employed in
this sense as the singular.
(T/fiaf eiSooXov. This phrase, which means “ shadow of a shade ”,
is found in a fragment of Sophocles, where it is applied to the
refiection of herself seen by a mare in smooth water ;
but its
occurrence in the script is perhaps more likely, in spite of the
inverted order of the words, to be a reminiscence of a passage
in the Agamemnon of Aeschylus O
€v yap e^eTrlaTapai
opiX'iws KUTOiTTpoi', e’lSwXov cr/c(d?,
SoKovPTWs eivui Kapra irpeopevel^ epoi
translated thus by Morshead
:
“ There be, who vaunt an utter loyalty,
d'hat is but as the ghost of friendship dead.”
^ See, however, p. 260.
224 [part
J. G. Fiddington.
Although I do not at all wish to press this point, it should
not escape observation that whereas the script gives the plural
form of “umbrae”, which is used to mean a single dead
person, it gives a singular case of a-Kia, the plural of which
could not be used to signify a single ghost. I do not press
this point, because I do not think that it much matters
whether l\Irs Verrall’s script of March 25 be interpreted as
“shades, ghosts or spirits” or as “shade, ghost or spirit.” The
coincidence with the “ Spirit ” of the Piper trance is close
enough either way.
Umbrarum volitantia corpora may be reminiscent of
Aeneid VI, 292-4
:
“ Et, ni docta conies tenuis sine corpore vitas
Admoneat volitare cava sub imaOTue formae,
Inruat, et frustra ferro diverberet umbras”;
and this passage might well have been suggested by the
preceding “ indignantis sub umbras”, a misquotation of Aeneid
XII, 952, where “vita” is used in much the same sense (and
that a very rare one) as “ vitas ” here.
Quae tihi .... tavgunt forms an hexameter line, and mentem
immortalia tangnnt is a parody of the Vergilian “mentem
mortalia tano-unt”.
O
If we treat all the words from “non desine” down to “simple
enough to me” as parenthetical, a second hexameter line in
the style of Lucretius is formed by the addition of “ et nos
attingimus caelum” to “ haec cape, quis captis ”.
a/iiimas.
“
Animae ” is used by the Augustan poets for the
Souls of the dead which inhabit the Lower World.
I have assumed throughout that by “Spirit” MyerSp had
in mind a disembodied spirit, and not one of the other signi-
fications of the word ;
and I think I am justified in making
this a.ssumption, for had MyerSp wished to attach an impersonal
meaning to the word he would hardly have conjoined with
it the word “ Angel ”, which connotes a personal being.
Mrs Verrall’s .script during the period under review does
not contain the word “Spirit” or “Spirits”; but obviously
it would not have been surprising if it had ;
and had either
of these words a.ppeared in her .script, even near the date on
225
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Aibtomatisnis.
which Myei’Sp said he had given “ Spirit ”, it would have been
difficult to treat it as more than accidental, unless special
prominence had in some way been given to the writing of it.
Whether we regard some part of Mrs Verrall’s consciousness
or an external intelligence as responsible for the script of
March 25, the author of it, I think we may fairly assume,
would have recognised the necessity of meeting this obvious
criticism. How better could it have been met than by harping
on the idea, while avoiding the use of the English word, and
by reiterating various Greek and Latin words equivalent to
“ Spirit ” or “ Spirits ” ?
^
A trace of “To the Stars” may just possibly be found in
the words “ et nos attingimus caelum”.^
A portion of Mrs Holland’s script of March 27, which fell
on a Wednesday (v. pp. 206-7, and 291), presents some coin-
cidences with Mrs Verrall’s script of March 25. I quote only
a part, because the rest is clearly quite disconnected.
Talem (1) uttorque (or, ‘
utorque ’
or ‘
utroque ’) surgit
absidem (or, ‘
exsulem ’) lux toto dum (1)
sine ab horos (?) tenebrae. Via obscura vita lucet [So far
written with the left hand]
And o’er the flats the singing of the sea
—
Ebbed like the thought of long forgiven wrong
—
The abiding horror to me was that of darkness—Let
sorrow take any other shape it will —Love and Sorrow
—
Sorrow and Love—as inevitably as Light and Shadow
—
Shadow and Light
The sundial at Broadmeadows what was the motto ?
Except the last four, the words written with the left hand are
very difficult indeed to decipher, and I feel absolutely certain
of two only, “surgit” and “lux”; but they are certainly Latin
or attempts at Latin.
The reading ab horos is Miss Johnson’s. There is no such
word as “ hoi’os ”, wdiich may be an error for horis, ablative
^This avoidance of the English word “spirit” should be compared with the
avoidance of the English word “death” in another script of Mrs. Verrall’s.
V. p. 302.
-The possible significance of “To the Stars” is explained in a footnote
to p. 269.
P
226 J. G. Piddington. [part
plural of liora, hour, though this would not make any sense.
I think the symbols may represent “obscuros”. It is not possible
to make any sense out of the words as they stand, nor can I
suggest any emendations which would make them intelligible.
Lux means “light”; surgit means “he (.she, or it) rises”;
tenehrae means “darkness”, especially the darkness of night,
or, as we might say, “ the shades of night ”
;
and in this
meaning is nearly synonymous with “ umbrae ”
;
but it cannot
mean, as does “umbrae”, the shades or ghosts of the dead,
though it is applied to the “Shades” which the shades of
the dead inhabit.
In estimating the probability of chance having produced the
coincidences which are to be found between some of the words
in this script of Mrs Holland’s and some of those in Mrs
Verrall’s script of two da3^s earlier, it is essential to discover
how often, and what sort of Latin occurs in Mrs Holland’s
automatic writing. During the period under review the follow-
ing is an exhaustive list ;
—
Dec. 12 “ Fides ”.
Dec. 19 “ Pace. Pax.”
Dec. 23 “ Tacet.” “Nomen.”
Jan. 2 “ Missa est ”.
Jan. 9 “ Ave atque vale frater non in perpetu
“ And ave ave ave said.”
Jan. 23 “Nox”.
Feb. 20 “ Confiteor ”.
March 27 (as quoted above)
April 16 “ Mors ”.
June 19 “ Vera causa ”.
“ perdere vult”.
“Mors” I regal'd as a cross-correspondence (v. |ip. 297-8); of
the phrases written on Jan. 9, the first is a perversion of
Catullus CL 10, and the second is a quotation from Tennyson’s
In Memoriam, and both perhaps show points of contact with
Mrs Verrall’s script. The rest, with the exception of “ confiteor”
and perhaps “facet”, are the sort of Latin words or tags that
any educated ]ierson knows. Of the words written on Maich 27,
“ tenehrae ” recalls the “ umbrae ”
;
“ obscura ” the “ obscurata ”
;
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 227
and “vita” the “ indignantis sub umbras” of Mrs Verrall’s
script of March 25.
But it is not to these slight resemblances that I attach
importance. The more .striking coincidence lies in the fact
that two days after I\Irs Verrall had written a script which
centres round the wmrds “.shadow” and “umbrae”, and in which
occur the words :
“ let Piddington know when }mu get a
message about shadow ” : Mrs. Holland wrote a script in which
“tenebrae” occurs once and “Shadow” twice, and in which,
perhaps, the idea of “ shadows ” is conveyed implicitly in the
reference to a sundial.
“ ANGEL ”.
Mrs Verrall’s script of April 3, I take to represent the second
of the two words named by Myersp on April 8.
It reads as follows :
—
•
M^rite three words—something about their serried ranks,
—
the avenging flame—the troop triumphant
—
no not quite that,
flaming swords—no
flammantia moenia mundi [flaming walls of the world]
But wings or feathered wings come in somewhere
“ And with twain he covered his i'ace
”
Try pinions of desire
The wings of Icarus
long pointed rainbow wings. But you keep going round
228 J. G. Piddington.
the ideas instead of giving three plain words
[part
Lost Paradise Regained
Of man’s first Disobedience no that is something else
a fluttering faint desire. Triumphant hosts in long
array the wings point upwards behind the marshalled
hosts.
It is a picture can you not see itl with sweeping
stationary wings, not used in flight, but making a
great aureole behind the central group. The hosts of
heaven (Scribbles.) No I cant get it at all
Leave it today
his flame clad messengers
that is better
F W H M has sent the message through—at last
!
The intention of this script is too patent to need much
comment.
Flavimantia moenia mimdi is a tpiotation of Lucretius,
I. 73, and may have been suggested by the similarity in sense
and sound of the preceding “flaming”. JBut I think it more
likely, in spite of the reverse order in which they emerged, that
“flammantia moenia mundi” suggested “flaming swords” than
vice versa. The Cjuotation from Lucretius had already appeared
once before in Mrs Verrall’s script on March 19, 1902 (v. Froc.
Vol. XX. pp. 348 and 359). It aroused no conscious associa-
tion in Mrs Verrall’s mind other than with Lucretius. It was
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 229
only on Sept. 9, 1907 that she discovered that the last lines
of F. W. H. Myers’ Passing of Youth
:
^
“Far, far aloof can sail with wings unfurled
Beyond the flaming rampire of the world.”
are a paraphrase of Lucretius I. 72-4 :
“ Ergo vivida vis aniini pervicit, et extra
Processit longe flainmantia moenia mundi
Atque omne immensum peragravit mente animoque.”
Now at the point where the Lucretian phrase is introduced
into the script of April 3, 1907, the scribe is trying to work
in the idea of %vings. But wings do not enter into the original
lines of Lucretius ;
“ with wings unfurled ” is Myers’s own
addition. Hence it is more probable that “ flaming swords ”,
though emerging first, was provoked by the latent idea of wings
suggested by Myei’s’s. paraphrase of Lucretius, than that “flaming-
swords ” suggested “ flaming walls ”. That this association of
ideas should appear as though latent in the mind of the scribe
rather than in that of the automatist is, at the least, appro-
priate when the scribe purports to be the same person as the
author of the Passing of Youth.
The source of And with twain he covered his face is Isaiah
VI. 2. :
“ Above it stood the seraphims : each one had six wings
;
with twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered
his feet, and with twain he did fly.”
Serried ranks, avenging flame, troop triumphant, flaming
swords, rainhoiv ^uings, triumphant hosts are reminiscences,
not, I think, quotations, of the fifth and sixth books of
Paradise Lost. There are also probably reminiscences
of the following lines from Milton’s Ode on the Morning of
Christ’s Nativity:
“ The helmed Cherubim
And sworded Seraphim
Are seen in glittering ranks with wings display’d.”
One of the most interesting points in this script is the
evidence it affords of the existence of two psychical activities
^MrsVerrall states that she probably must have read the Passing of Youth
at some time before 1907, but that she has no recollection of it.
230 J. G. Pidclington. [part
simultaneously at work, each a factor in the script ;
one
apparently aware throughout of what it was driving at and
able to check the other from wandering too far from the
point, yet almost in despair of making its fellow grasp the
exact point; and hardly less interesting is the exclamation of
relief and satisfaction with which the writing closes.
Neither the imagery of Milton, nor the variations on the
“ wing's ” theme seem to have given the automatist so effective
a clue to what was wanted as the etymological hint afforded
by the word “messengers”, which is no sooner written than
the drawing of an angel is made.
It should be noted that though the script throughout implies
or points to “angels” in the plural, only a single angel was
drawn ;
though I do not wish to press this point any more
than the permissibility of taking “ umbrae ” to mean a single
spirit.
This script, unlike that of Mai'ch 25, is definitely signed
“F. W. H. M.”
Mrs Sidgwick, who was present at the sitting of April 8
when for the first and only time “Angel” was said to be
the subject of a cross-correspondence, had Tjot seen Mrs Verrall’s
script of April 3. The scrij>t was sent to me, and I I'eceived
and read it at 8.15 p.m. on April 4. The envelope containing
it bore the postmark “ Matlock Bath. 8.15 p.m. Ap. 3, 1907 ”.
XVIII.
“O’ER MOUNTAINS, SEAS AND LAKES AND RIVERS.”
At the sitting with Mrs Pij^er held on Jan. 22, 1907, after
a certain amount of pi'eliminary conversatinn had passed be-
tween Rector and myself, Rector wrote: “ vh'v well we will
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 231
now see our friend [i.e. the sitter] if you have nothing further ”,
The record then continues thus:
—
J. 6. P. No, there is nothing further.
(J. G. P. signals to Miss Newton to go out and fetch the
sitter.)
Myers is especially interested in taking messages.
(Sitter [i.e. Mrs Verrall] enters 11.23 a.m.)
J. G. P. Yes, I’m glad to hear that. The friend is here now, and
will sit beside jmu.
(Myers communicating)
Yes, but I got Shores Lakes and Rivers or stream.
(Hand waves towards sitter.)
Mrs V. I am here.
Did it come out there also ?
Mrs V. \Yhere is “there”?
Did Nellie say it ?
J. G. P. I haven’t yet seen the record. I will let you know as soon
as I can.
I hope }mu will as I wish to U.D. if I hear correctly.
“Nellie” is the control of Mrs Thompson; and the question
“Did Nellie say it?” meant “Were the words ‘Shores, Lakes’
etc. spoken by the Nellie control through Mrs Thompson ?
”.
They were not. It will be noticed that the question was
asked in the presence of Mrs Verrall.
Extract from record of sitting with Mrs Pi'per held on
March 20, 1907.
(Present : Mrs Sidgwick alone.)
(Myers communicating.) Now if you can tell me of any
other word you wish me to convey to her [i.e. Mrs
Verrall] I will do so
E. M. S. Cloud.
232 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Oh she has already written it ....
the clouds dispersed and forth came sunshine.
think of something else.
(After a few references to other matters the matter crops
up again in the following way :
—
)
(Rector communicating) She [i.e. Mrs Verrall] has already
written clouds.
E. M. S. I understand that.
and the other word church.
E. M. S. (misreading “ word ” as “ and ”) “ and church ”,
Yes Chapel Monument
Hodgson gave her Church
Myers gave her Monument and Chapel.
E. M. S. I see.
(Myers communicating)
Now there were several other words which she wrote
one sounded like ^ I wandered lonely as a cloud
that floats
Sounds like Hi2:h
Hill
E. M. S. “ that floats on yonder hill ” ?
on high (Some symbols are then written which
0 E E N . might be “ o’er ” but which are more
like “ 0 r e r ”)
E. M. S. “OEEN” is itl
(Rector communicating)
Repeat for him. R.
(E.M. S. repeats.)
Oer
' Probably “one sounded like ” is an interjection of Rector’s, who often repre-
sents himself as unable to hear distinctly words spoken by the spirit for whom
he is acting as amanuensis.
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms. 233
E. M. S. Oh !
“
O’er ”, yes. “ I wandered lonely as a cloud that
floats o’er”
Yes. Dale and hill
Yes I heard distinctly several words. . . . several of
those words
At the sitting of April 1.5 Rector included among cross-
corresponding messages given to Mrs Verrall by Myersp or
Hodgsonp the phrase ;
“ Besides the word M something like
Mountain.”
During the waking-stage of the trance of April 17, after
the words “Sanatos” and “Tanatos” (v. p. 295) had been
pronounced, came the following ;
—
O’er mountains seas and lakes and rivers.
Mr Myers has got Rector by the ear. ^Yhispers into it.
IVhat’s last . . . 1 Oh ! he is writing it.
L-a-u-s-t-e-o.
Laburnum (?) Daftbdils. I smell them.
All the utterances made during the waking-stage of the
trance of April 17 I have no doubt emanated from Hodgsoiip
and MyerSp ;
and I have little doubt that they were almost
entirely concerned with the announcement of various cross-
coi’respondence messages, six in number ; namely, “ Thanatos ”,
“ O’er mountains ” etc., “ Laus Deo ” (as “ Lausteo ” was eventu-
ally pronounced), “Semper Tyrannus ”, “Laburnum” and
“ Daffodils ”. Of these I shall presently discuss the first and
third (v. pp. 295 and 304) ;
with the second and the last I am
dealing now; and of the rest I find no trace in Mrs Verrall’s
or Mrs Holland’s scripts during the periods under review. It
may seem surprising that I should regard “Laburnum” and
“ Daffodils ” as cross-correspondences, in view of the words with
which their utterance is accompanied :
“ I smell them ”
;
and I
should indeed have looked on them simply as a reference to
flowers which Mrs Piper imagines she receives from her spirit
friends, were it not that “Daffodils” are the subject of the
poem of which “ I wandered lonely as a Cloud ” (given as a
cross-correspondence on March 20 by Myersp) is the first line
;
and that Myersp distinctly stated on April 29 that he had
234 J. G. Piddington. [part
given “Daffodils”, and on June 2 “Laburnum” to Mrs
Verrall. If these isolated words do not refer to cross-
correspondence experiments then they have no sense, as they
do not connect in any way with the affairs of the sitters or
with other matters mentioned in the same sitting or in previous
or subsequent sittings ;
and it is very seldom that what Mrs
Piper writes or says in trance lias no sense. It may be in-
coi'rect or muddled, but it has a meaning.
Extract from siftivg with Mrs Piper held on April 23,
1907.
(Present : Mrs Sidgwick and Miss ISlewton.)
(Hodgson communicating) Did you receive mj^ word Church
also Chapel and Mountain.
E. M. S. I will ask about this also.
I believe Mountain and Church got partly through.
Extract from record of sitting ^oith Mrs Piper held on
April 24, 1907.
(Present: Mrs Sidgwick alone.)
(Rector communicating) They [i.e. Myers and Hodgson] feel
that some of their last words have not appeared through
Mrs Verrall, but feel sure that in due time most of
them will
E. M. S. Yes. We will wait for them.
Did you find that Mountain came out ?
E. M. S. No, not mountain.
(Myers communicating)
I gave her a few words in which were
cloud lonely
did you get it cleat ly ?
E. M. S. I think “ lonely ” came through.
Yes I said lonely.
E. M. S. Good.
LVII,] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 235
Extract from record of sitting vAth Mrs Piper held on
April 29 ,
1907 .
(Present ; Mrs Verrall and Miss Johnson.)
(Myers communicating) Did you get Helen’s message about
the Brook.
Mrs V. I haven’t seen Helen for more than six weeks, and don’t
know what messages she has had.
I wrote lonel}' Wandering Cloud
Daffodils Yes. I did.
Mrs V. I will ask her. [i.e. Miss Helen Verrall.]
I gave it quite clearly to you also.
but you seemed to U.D. only the word wandering.
(Spoken during the waking-stage.) I wandered lonely as a
cloud —Myers.
Extract from record of sitting ivith 3frs Piper held on
May 1 ,
1907.
(Present: Mrs Sidgwick and Miss Johnson.)
(Myers communicating) I told Mrs V. to write.
Mountain field and sky.
did she receive it?
E. M. S. “ Sky ” she did, but not “ mountain ” and “ field ” I think.
Mountain may appear any time.
E. M. S. Yes, we’ll look out for it.
also hills
if it appear as hills we mean practically the same thing,
as when I can’t make [her] U.D. one word I give her
another similar
E. M. S. I see.
Similar
She did U.D. my reference to lakes
236 J. G. Piddington. [part
E. M. S. “lakes”?
yes.
E. M. S. I will see if she got lakes,
yes quite.
I think she U.D. it as lake
L
E. M. S. “as lake”?
Yes.
On May 7, 1907 Myersp asked Mrs Sidgwick if Mrs Verrall
got the words :
“ Mountain Lake and Lonely ”, and added :
“Did Cloud appear?”. Mrs Sidgwick replied that she thought
“ cloud ” had not appeared, but that “ lonely ” had, though she
could not remember in what connection.
On J\Iay 19, 1907 Myersp said to Sir Oliver Lodge: “I will
tell you that I have sent and succeeded (?) in making Mrs V.
understand Expectancy trancpiility [sic] and cloud Give
her my love and tell her this being my first opportunity to
acknowledge the fact that the wortl did appear.”
On June 2, 1907 Myersp said to Sir Oliver Lodge: “I have
succeeded in getting another word through Mrs V. It is
Montin [sic], one of my test words. I also note Lake LAKE.
Laburnam [sic] and Rose leaf. All this has much meaning
as you will understand later.”
It will be seen that this experiment, or rather amalgam of
experiments, was pursued with great perseverance. It will
first be desirable to epitomise, and if ymssible digest, the fore-
going medley of extracts.
If we leave out of consideration “ shores ”, which was
mentioned once only and then not in connection with Mrs
Verrall, there appear to be three distinct groups of ideas
:
(1) Seas, lakes, rivers or stream; (2) Lonely wandering cloud;
and (3) field and sky. With all three of these groups is
united at one time or another a fourth idea : mountain or hill.
If all four are combined we get 12 different leading words ;
lakes, rivers, stream, seas, cloud, dale, hill, mountain, lonely
wandering, field, and sky.
Out of these twelve seven—dale, stream, hill, sea, river, mount
lvil] a Series of Concordant Atdomatisms. 237
and lake —appear in one piece of script written by Mrs Verrall
on April 6, 1907, of which the following is a copy:
—
For the first time—let me say it plainly
Ask for the painted feather, no not feather—sounds like
feather fev feth—Fetherbridge no it is some word like
that the painted Severn bridge—the painting of Tever
bridge—that is what it sounds like listen again. The
painting of Letherbridge
But it is not easy to write today—put it letter by letter
Le th er bridge
By holm and kill
and thorp and dale
By stream and rill
by hill and vale
In gloom or shine
by day and night
By larch and pine
to left to right
The water faintly trickling from its fount,
gains volume as it rushes to the sea
A broadening river b}^ the storied mount
an o^jen lake beside the lawns of
LEA
That ought to give you the clue.
Wait and listen.
E W G
Appended was the following note :
—
Matlock Bath. April 7.
There is a village near here called Lea. We had spent all day
yesterday in an expedition to Dovedale, but Lea is not near that,
nor do I know of any “ storied mount ” in this neighbourhood. The
Dove does not, I think, flow into the sea but into some other
river. I know of no Letherbridge or Fetherbridge &c.
M. de G. V.
Later Mrs Verrall added this note:
—
“ Kill ” is a local name.
On April 27 I saw that the river may represent the river of Lethe
;
note “ Letherbridge ” corrected to “ Lether bridge ”, and the final
emphasis on Lea. The “ storied mount ” can only be the Mount
of Purgatory, past which flows the river of Lethe.
238 J. G. Fiddington. [part
To give the word “Lethe” may well have been one intention
of the scribe ;
but the sci'ibe may have had a double intention,
namely, to work in the words “ dale, stream, hill, lake ” etc. as
well as the word “Lethe”.
No trace of “lonely wandering cloud” appears in Mrs
Verrall’s automatic writing at all. The word “lonely” occurs
in her script of March 11 (v. p. 145) in the ])hrase: “Presences
on the eternal hills .... The Presence that is in the lonely
hills”. “Lonely”, it will be noted, occurs in close connexion
both with the word “ hills ” and with the Wordsworthian
phrase, “ the eternal hills ”.
There is not in Mrs Veriall’s script any combination of the
ideas of “ Mountain, field and sky ”.
As regards the words given in the trance which do appear
in Mrs Verrall’s scri])t, the points which, to my mind, tell
strongly against their appeai’auce being due to chance are
these :
(1) On April 15 Rector says “something like Mountain”
has been given to Mrs Verrall; and this, as I understand it,
is expanded in the waking-stage of April 17 to “O’er mountains
seas and lakes and rivers”. On Apill 6 Mrs Verrall had
written a dowerel of twelve lines, in the last four of which
occur the words “sea”, “lake”, “river” and “mount”;
(2) The persistency with which the trance-personalities enquire
whether “ mountain ” has got through; and the confident state-
ment by Myersp on June 2 that Mrs Verrall has written both
“mountain” and “lake”; (3) The spontaneous expression of
opinion by MyerSp on May 1 that Mrs Verrall had understood
the word as “ lake ” instead of “ lakes ”
;
and the appearance of
“mount” in the script, which does not correspond badly with
Rector’s “something like mountain,” and with the statement
of Hodgsonp : “I believe mountain got paifly through”; (4)
The appearance in the script of April 6, in addition to the
words mentioned in (1), of (a) the word “hill”, which Myersp
said on May 1 might be taken as equivalent to “ mountain ”,
and of (b) the words “dale and hill”, which, though not
directly connected by Myersp with “ seas lakes and rivers ”,
are connected with “lonely” and “cloud”, with which “moun-
tain” “lonely” and “cloud” were in turn connected on May 7;
lvil] 229
A Series of Concordant Aiitomatisms.
and (5) the conjunction of “lonely” and “hills” in Mrs Verrall’s
script in close connection with a ^Yordsworthian phrase.
Tt seems likely that the surroundings in which Mrs Verrall
was staying on April 6 both helped the ideas to emerge and
influenced the mode of their expression. “Dale—stream
—
rill—vale” were all words which the scenery of IMatlock might
suggest; and “kill” it must have suggested. l\Iyersp, let me
conjecture, was making a second attempt to impress the auto-
matist with “ I wandered lonely as a cloud that floats o’er
dale and hill ”
;
the attempt was but partially successful,
only “hill” and “dale” getting written; so abandoning this
experiment and taking advantage of a momentary ascendancy
in the automatist’s mind of thoughts connected with physical
scenery, he started a new experiment, namely, to get a I’eference
to the Mountain of Purgatory. Aware both of the setting
and of the form in which the main idea had emerged into
partial expression in Mrs Verrall’s script, Myersp afterwards
conveyed the main idea—mountain—through Mrs Piper on
April 15, and then two days later I’epeated it with three of
the leading words which went to make up the setting or
context in which the main idea came out.
Some people may feel that the force of the coincidence is
considerably weakened by the fact that three out of the seven
coincidental words were known bj’ iMrs A^errall to have been
used for the purpose of a cross-correspondence with another
automatist, Mrs Thompson. That is far from nw own opinion.
On the contrary, I believe that this very knowledge woidd
have been far more likely to liave inhibited the reproduction
of these words in her automatic script. Mrs Verrall’s normal
consciousness, there are good grounds for thinking, often holds
her subconscious impulses in check ;
and in this case she would
think it unlikely that the ti-ance-personalities would be going
on with an experiment nearly identical with one tried more
than ten wmeks earlier and one which, as they knew, was
within her knowledge.
The initials E. G. appended to the script of April 6,
have not appeared before or since in Mrs Verrall’s automatic
writing. She did not recognise in them the initials of any dead
or living friend of hers; but she told me in September 1907
240 ./. G. Piddington. [part
that she always had taken them to be a bad shot at those of
a friend (known also to Mr Mjmrs), whose initials before her
marriage were E. W. C., the W. standing for ‘Wordsworth’;
and ^she had thought that they suggested that the foregoing
script referred to the Wordsworth country. Long before I
received this information from Mrs Verrall I had noticed a
certain resemblance between “ O’er mountains seas and lakes
and rivers ” etc. and the first verse of a poem by F. W. H.
Myers, published after his death in Fragments of Prose and
Poetry :
“ O Rock and torrent, lake and hill,
Halls of a home austerely still.
Remote and solemn view !
O valley, where the wanderer sees
Beyond that towering arch of trees
Hedvellyn and the blue!”^
The scenery of the poem is, of course, that of the Wordsworth
country. The “ Torrent ”, “ lake ”, “ hill ”, “ valley”, “ Helvellyn ”,
“ the blue ”, “ remote ” and “ wanderer ” of the poem correspond
respectively to the “Stream”, “lake”, “hill”, “dale”, “moun-
tain”, “sky”, “lonely” and “wandered” of Mrs Piper’s trance.
I had noticed the resemblance between the cross-correspond-
ence messages dealt with in this section and Myers’s poem
“O Rock and torrent” not only before Mrs Verrall had told
me that she thought her script of Apiil 6 might refer to the
Wordsworth Country, but also before I learnt that “I wandered
lonely as a Cloud” is a quotation from a poem of Wordsworth’s,
and consequently before I knew that the scene of the incident
described in this poem is laid in the Lake district.^ Since
1 This verse of this then unpublisliecl poem had been recited by Dr Hodgson
at Mr Myers's request during a sitting with Mrs Piper held on Feb. 17, 1897.
It was therefore known to some part of Mrs Piper’s mind.
- The opening verse of Wordsworth’s poem is as follows :
—
“ I wandered lonely as a Cloud
That floats on high o’er Vales and Hills,
When all at once I saw a crowd,
A host of golden Daffodils ;
Beside the Lake, beneath the trees.
Fluttering and dancing in the breeze.”
This poem is referred to no less than six times in F. W. H. Myers’s
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 241
“ I wandered lonely as a Cloud ” is, I am told, one of those
poems which everybody is supposed to know, I’m afraid I shall
hardly be believed when I confess that neither Mrs Sidgwick
nor myself recognised it ;
but such was the case. I did not
learn the source of “I wandered lonely” until Feb. 1908, and
it was only when I had learnt it that I obtained the clue to
the sequence of thought manifested in the ci’oss-correspondences
which form the subject of the next section.
XIX.
“LIGHT IN WEST”.
The phenomena which form the subject matter of this section
are extremely complex, and to follow them propei’ly the reader
must be thoroughly acquainted with Section XI (The ai’ro?
ovpavo? uKv/j-wp incident). Section XVI (“ Euripides ”), Section
XVII (“ Spirit and Angel ”), and especially Section XVIII
(“O’er mountains, seas and lakes and rivers”).
In the course of this report we have met with various
instances of cross-correspondence between Mrs Piper’s, Mrs
Verrall’s, Miss Verrall’s and Mrs Holland’s automatic pheno-
mena. These cross-correspondences have been treated as isolated
coincidences, complete in themselves and not knit together or
related to each other by any common bond of thought.
Between the subjects of most of them there really was, I
believe, no connection ;
but some of them, which in preceding
sections I have treated as disconnected, really, as I discovered
only after those sections were written, belong together, and
Wordsworth. It may be well to add that I never read, nor to the best of
my belief ever had in my hands, this book until Feb. 190S.
The first line of the poem was correctly quoted in the trance, but the second
line was misquoted thus: “that floats on high o’er Dale and hill”.
Q
242 J. 0. Piddington. [part
were, so to speak, links in a concatenation, or cubes in a
mosaic of ideas which had been distributed among several
automatists.
Of the cross-correspondences thus inter-related one has not
hitherto been mentioned, namely, that which was represented
in Mrs Piper’s trance by the words “Light in West”. “Light
in West”—or rather the idea which a comparative study of
Mrs Verrall’s and Mrs Holland’s scripts showed to be under-
lying these words—proved (if I may vary the metaphor once
more) to be the leading theme of an elaborate concerted
movement. Yet, though I quickly discovered in the scripts of
the other two automatists the counter-parts to Mrs Piper’s
“ Light in West ”, and recognised the common idea which under
different guises ran through all three, I did not realise that
this common idea was also the common starting-point of three
trains of ideas which developed at first in divergent directions
but which came together ao;ain at other common meeting-
points.
This synthesis revealed itself to me only when I learnt the
literary source of that script of Mrs Holland’s which I take,
and had independently of this knowledge taken, to be the
counterpart of Mrs Piper's “ Light in West
Instead of pursuing the course adopted in the other sections of
this report, I shall here, before citing the relevant extracts from
the I’ecords of sittings and the scripts, first roughly outline the
chain of ideas which I believe them to contain ;
and I hope,
by means of this preliminaiy sketch to make the reader’s
task easier than it would be if he did not know what to
look for until after the evidence had been presented.
The concatenation or mosaic of ideas which I am about to
desci’ibe I i-egard not as tlie result of telepathic cross-firing
casually exchanged between the automatists, but as the work
of a single directing intelligence, or of a group of intelligences
acting in concert ;
and I consider that this directing intelligence
manifested itself chiefly in the communications of Myersp,
Myersy and Myers^. On the problem of the real identity of
this directing mind—whether it was a spirit or group of co-
operating spirits, or the subconsciousness of one of the auto-
matists, or the consciousness or subconsciousness of some other
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 243
living person—the only opinion which I hold with confidence
is this : that if it was not the mind of Frederic Myers it was
one which deliberately and artistically imitated his mental
characteristics.
My theory of the interconnections is as follows ;
—
The parent idea from which all the other ideas were developed
was suggested to the directing mind by an idea associated with
afro? ovpafo? uKufxwv. It will be remembered how certain
passages in her script had led Mrs Verrall to connect Section
xcv of Tennyson’s In Memoriam with these words of Plotinus.
It was from the last three lines of this Section
—
“ And East and West, without a breath,
Mixt their dim lights, like life and death.
To broaden into boundless day ”
—
that was derived the parent idea
—
the Union of East and
West—from which all the other inter-related topics were
developed. The developments took place in three directions
:
A, B, and C.
In Direction A. From the parent idea there was developed
(1) the Identification of Opposites; which in turn suggested
(2) Martha and Mary, and Leah and Rachael, who are cited
by Dante in the Gonvito and in (3) Canto XXVII of the
Purgatorio as examples of opposed temperaments. This Canto,
with its sequel Canto XXVIII, suggested various other topics
mentioned therein : namely, (4) Geryon, the monster on whose
back Vergil and Dante were borne from the seventh to the
eighth circle of the Inferno ; (5) the goddess Cytherea (Venus)
and the planet Cytherea (Venus); and (6) the mountain of
Purgatory, the River of Lethe, and the crossing of the Helles-
pont by Xerxes ;
with the first two topics of (6) were combined
allusions to (7) the mountains and rivers and to the scenery
generally of the Lake District; which suggested (S) the
Daffbdils .seen by Wordsworth on the shores of Ullswater
Lake, and celebrated bj^ him in the poem “ I wandered lonely
as a Cloud ”.
In Direction B. The union of East and West in In
Memoriam xcv suggested (9) the identification of East and
West in Tennyson’s Maud] and Maud suggested (10a) “the
244 [part
J. G. Piddington.
planet of Love” (Venus) “beginning to faint ... on a daffodil
sky”; and (10b) “the shining daffodil dead” and “Orion’s grave
low down in the West”.
In Direction G. The union of East and West suggested (11)
Hercules as a type of the union of East and West ;
and this
suggested (12) the Hercides Furens of Euripides, and (13)
Geryon, a three-headed monster slain by Hercules in Erytheia,
an island in the extreme West.
It will be seen that topics (4) and (13), (5) and (10a), (8)
and (10b) respectively are expressible in identical words.
The above resume only aims at setting forth the inter-
connections in the very baldest and most succinct fashion ;
and
it does not pretend to indicate the distribution of the various
topics among the automatists, nor the order in which, nor the
degree of explicitness with which they emerged. It is only
intended to help the reader to form some notion in advance
of the line I am going to take in my interpretation of the
phenomena.
For reasons indicated in Section XI I assume that on March 6
both M^mrsp and Myersy displayed knowledge of the associations
between auro? oupavo? uKvpwv and In Memoriam, sections xciv
and xcv. I shall further assume that, although he did not
display it, MyerSy possessed this knowledge two days earlier,
i.e. on March 4.
I now proceed to describe and discuss in chronological order
the automatic writings or utterances which, according to my
theoiy, went to form a complex whole. Homan numerals are
used to mark the emergence of the several constituent elements.
I.
The first topic emerged on March 4, on which date Mrs
Vei'rall wrote the following script :
—
jia.Lvope.vo'i 6 ‘HpaKA)^?
Hercules Furens Tell your husband from me. there is a
passage in the Heracles not understood, about the pillar
and the tying to it.
An old story lies behind that but it means something in
Euripides that A AV V has not yet seen. Tell him to
look at it again—it is the passage about the pillar and
LVii.] A Series of Conc&txlant Automatisms. 245
the thong—the pillar at the foot of wh. lay the dead
children. Tell your husband to read that again—not to
mind the mythology but to see another point wh. will
please him.
I have long wanted to say this but the words were never
there—now all the words are there and I think I have
made the meaning clear ask elsewhere for the BOUND
HERCULES.
'Hpa/<A?;s Auo/xeros is the sequel.
Binding and loosing 5eo-/xotcrt Avtois not adamantine fetters
but fetters that link and loose. Something about snap-
ping his bonds in sundei’. Tell A W V he will under-
stand.
It is unnecessary to repeat here some explanatory comments
on this script which have already been given (v. p. 213).
The script refers throughout to the Herctdes Furens of
Euripides, and to two incidents of that yday, namely, the
binding of Heracles to, and his unbinding from a pillar. In
a note appended to this script a short time after it was pro-
duced Mrs Verrall wrote :
The scene of the binding to the pillar is well known, but the
script has thrown no light on it. See, however, Human Personality,
Vol. II., p. 290 for an allusion to the “real Herakles” of Plotinus,
who might appropriately be called a “Hercules Unbound”.
The passage in Himnan Personality of which Mrs Verrall
was reminded by the allusion in her scidpt to the unbinding
of Heracles runs as follows :
—
“ I believe that some of those who once were near us are already
mounting swiftly upon this heavenly way. And when from that
cloud encompassing of unforgetful souls some voice is heard, —as
long ago,—there needs no heroism, no sanctity, to inspire the apostle’s
(TridvfjLLa €t’s TO dcaAvcrai, the desire to lift our anchor, and to sail out
beyond the bar. What fitter summons for man than the wish to
live in the memory of the highest soul that he has known, now
risen higher ;—to lift into an immortal security the yearning passion
of his love? “As the soul hasteneth”, says Plotinus h “to the
things that are above, she will ever forget the more ;
unless all her
^ Enn. lY, 3, 27.
246 J. G. Piddington. [part
life on earth leave a memory of things done well. For even here
may man do well, if he stand clear of the cares of earth. And he
must stand clear of their memories too ;
so that one may rightly
speak of a noble soul forgetting those things that are behind. And
the shade of Herakles, indeed, may talk of his own valour to the
shades, but the true Herakles in the true world will deem all that
of little worth ;
being transported into a more sacred place, and
strenuously engaging, even above his strength, in those battles in
which the wise engage.”
I have already pointed out that Myersp associated with
aurd? oupavo9 aKvjxoov three of the subjects—St Paul, Grossing the
Bar and Plotinus—referred to in this passage of Human Per-
sonality (v. p. 1.35). Now here we find Mrs Verrall associating
a script of hers referring to the unbinding of Heracles with
a quotation from Plotinus which is embodied in this same
jmssage.
In an indirect way, then, the script of March 4 may be
said to be connected with auTo? ovpavo^ aKvp.wv. And equally
it may be said to be connected with a passage from Plotinus
w'hich emphasises the distinction between the shade of Heracles
in the shadowy underworld, and the real Heracles who exists
in “ a moi'e sacred place ”
;
and there cannot be the least doubt
that Plotinus in this passage was alluding to Odyssey XI,
601-3, where a distinction—though not the same distinction
—
is likewise drawn between the shade {el8w\ov) of Heracles in
Hades and Heracles himself (ailrb?) in Heaven.^
Tov Se fj-er' eicremtjrru f3hjv Hpa/cXi;e/>/r,
e’lScoXov avTOi Se per aQavaroKn 6eoi(Tip
TepireTui ev Oahajii.
“
And after him [i.e. Sisyphus] I descried the mighty Heracles,
his phantom, I say ;
but as for himself he hath joy at the
banquet among the deathless gods.”
(Butcher and Lang’s Translation.)
Now the distinction drawn by Plotinus between the eiSwXov,
or visible shade, and the Spirit itself brings us back again to
^ Mrs Verrall’s note on dduXov published in Proc. Part LV. p. 216, was
not written till March 1908, and much of the information contained in it was
not acquired by her till that date.
LVII.] 247
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
In Memoriam and to a section of it (xciii) intimately related
to Section xcv :
—
“ I shall not see thee. Dare I say
No spirit ever bi’ake the hand
That stays him from his native land,
Where first he walked when clasp’d in clay ?
No visual shade of some one lost,
But he, the Spirit himself, may come
Where all the nerve of sense is numb.
Spirit to Spirit, Ghost to Ghost.
0, therefoi'e from thy sightless range
With gods in unconjectured bliss
Descend and touch and enter ;
”
It seems impossible to suppose that the “ visual shade
” “ the
Sph’it himself” and “ with gods in unconjectured bliss” were not
suggested to Tennyson by the elSwXop, avTo? and /xer’ dOavaToiai
Oeolaiv Tep7T6TaL ev OaXlg^ of Odyssey, XI, 601-3 : lines to which
Plotinus was, as we have seen, i-eferring in the passage from
the Enneades quoted in Human Personcdity Vol. II. p. 290.
The Greek title of the Hercules Furens is 'Hpa/cX>7? gaipoiuei/o?,
and the first words of the script clearly refer to this title.
The subsequent phra.se 'Hpa/cAJ?? Xvojuei^og —i.e. Hercules Un-
bound—is not the title of any extant play. There is, however,
a play of Aeschylus’ entitled Upojuojdev^ 06crp.wT>]g (i.e. Prome-
theus Bound or Prometheiis Vinctus)] and a few fragments of
a sequel to it, entitled Yipop.t]0eh Xvopevo^ (i.e. Prometheus
Unbound or Prometheus Solutus), are extant.
The reference to “ adamantine fetters
”—a phrase applied by
Aeschylus in the Prometheus Vinctus to the bonds of Pro-
metheus—taken in connection with the words 'Hpa/cXi/f Xvapei/og
is sufficient evidence that the scribe had in mind the two
Prometheus plays of Aeschylus, and also the fact that it was
Heracles who delivered Prometheus from his bondage.^
1 lu one of the very few extant fragments of the Prometheus Solutus the
river Phasis, the scene of Prometheus’ captivity, is called the boundary of
Europe and Asia : in other words the meeting-point of East and West.
248 J. G. Piddington. [part
I ask the reader to bear these facts in mind and to await
an explanation of their relevancy.
II.
The next move was made on March 10, on which date
Miss Verrall and her aunt, Miss Mex’rifield, did some table-
tiltinjT. Mrs Verrall was present and acted as note-taker,
but sat apart from the automatists and did not touch the
table.
The account that follows is based on Mrs Verrall’s contem-
poi'aneous notes :
—
The table first spelt out
:
“geryoneshefollostlalemo
lending colour to his hypothesis therefore in substance the two
propositions are identical.”
Upon Mrs Verrall saying that the words before “lending”
were nonsense, the table gave this amended version of them
;
“
g e r y o n t e s m e f i s t o 1 e s p r o b e m i u m.”
After reading this aloud as
:
“ geryontes mefistoles problem
”
Mrs Verrall asked the table to make a statement which
would clear up the preceding confusion ;
and the response
was as follows
:
“ mefistofiles and geryon double aspect of one problem.”
The table-tilting was then stopped.
The sentences spelt out b}" the table were then discussed,
and at Dr Verrall’s suggestion Mrs Verrall looked up the
reference to Geryon in Dante’s Inferno. Geryon, who is only
thrice mentioned by Dante in the Divina Conimedia, twice in
the Inferno (Cantos XVII and XVIII) and once in the Pur-
gatorio (Canto XXVII), ^ typifies fraud; and this seemed both
to explain his conjunction with Mephistopheles, and to imply
that Dante’s Geryon and not the Geryon slain by Heracles
was meant.
But three different spellings of the name of Geiyon were
tilted out: Geryones—Geryontes—and Geryon. The name of
1 Mrs Verrall did not trace the reference to Geryon in Purgatorio XXVII.
LVil.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 249'
Dante’s monster is always spelt in English “ Geryon ”, and in
Dante only the forms “ Gerione ” and “ Gerion ” appear
whereas the name of Heracles’ monster, both in Greek and
Latin, was either Geryon (r>/pc(or) or Geryones (r>;pt/or>/?)-
The first form of the name tilted out by the table, as also
the second, if the superfluous t be omitted, would naturall}^
apply only to the classical monster ;
the third form might
apply to either monster.
The conjunction of Geryon with Mephistopheles, especially
as Mephistopheles is spelt, in the Italian way, with f for
points to Dante’s monster; one spelling of the name may also
point to him, but two of the spellings ])oint to Heracles’
monster.
I draw the inference that the intelligence behind the motor
automatism had both monsters in mind.
The only other comment which I have to make at this
point on the reference made to Geryon in the table-tilting
experiment is that the slaying of Geryon in Erytheia is
alluded to in the Hercules Furens of Euripides:
“And Lerna’s murderous hound ... he [i.e. Heracles] seared;
and with its poison tipped his darts, wherewith he slew
Erytheia’s three-bodied herdsman ” [i.e. Geryon]. (Blakeney’s
translation.)
III.
What may perhaps represent the first emergence of another
element of the mosaic of associated ideas occurs in Mrs
Verrall’s script of March 11. The first part of this script
has already been cited in Section XII. (p. 177) as part of
the evidence for the cross-correspondence “ Violet ”, and the
whole of it in Appendix e of Section XI. (p. 145) because
it was this script which led Mrs Verrall to examine In
Memoriam to see if it contained any allusion to avTO<; oiiparo?
duviJ-wv. The script concludes in this way
:
No you dont get it right
Presences on the eternal hills
that is better
The Presence that is in the lonely hills
That is all for now wait.
250 J. G. Piddington. [part
For the reasons given on p. 238, this is just possibly the
first emergence of the “Wordsworth Country” topic. If it is,
tlien this topic was introduced for the first time in a script
which belongs to the afro? ovpavoi olkv/ulwp episode.
IV.
We must turn now to Mrs Holland’s script of March 13,
which contains a verse in which the East and West are,
not identified, but contrasted. Mrs Holland’s script is
far more broken up, and far less homogeneous than Mrs
Verrall’s ;
so that, whereas it is usually necessary to quote
the whole or a large part of a script of Mrs Verrall’s, in
Mrs Holland’s case it is usually sufficient to give short
extracts only. Her script of March 13 was an unusually
long one, and embraced a variety of topics. Towards the
end of it and disconnected with what preceded came these
lines ;
—
One star in the crimson West
And the East is cold and grey
And the weary earth shall turn to her rest
At the end of the winter’s Day.
These lines—which, so far as I can discover, are not a
quotation but original—were immediately followed by a
quotation from Woidd God it were morning, a poem by
F. W. H. Myers, published in The Renewal of Youth and
other Poems :
—
[My God,] How many times ere I be dead
Must I the bitterness of dying know?
After this came two disconnected sentences, and then these
concluding words :
Let the pen go as it were in a large
planchette script. No it is not returning to the
old scribbles it is a new attempt—F. W. H. M.
The quotation from Would God it were morning and the
initials F. W. H. M. seem to connect Myersn with this part
of the script.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 251
V.
It is now Mrs Piper’s turn to furnish one of the component
topics. As described in Section XVIII. (p. 232), at the sitting of
i\larch 20 the words “ I wandered lonely as a cloud that floats
on high o’er dale and hill ” were said to have been given to
Mrs Verrall. It is not categorically stated that MyerSp was the
transmitter of them, but that is obviously meant, and anyhow
on April 29 (v. p. 235) Myersp explicitly claims to have been.
For reasons already explained (v. pp. 233 et seq.) this quotation
introduces by implication two of the component topics : namely,
“ Dafibdils ” and “Wordsworth Country”. As subsequent de-
velopments will explain, it was perhaps not without significance
that at this same sitting, while mentioning other words or
phrases which he had given to Mrs Verrall, Myersp said;—“I
referred also to a quotation of my own in which I said . . .
where did he come from whither is he goino- ”,
Weeks before I learnt that “ Harold ” had on April 8 been
said to have been given by MyerSp to Mrs Verrall, and months
before I realised that there might be a special point in this
choice of “ Harold ” as the subject of a cross-correspondence,
I had identified ‘
where did he come from whither is he
going ” as a paraphrase of the 8th verse of a poem entitled
Harold at two years old published in F. W. H. Myers’s Frag-
ments of Prose and Poetry.
The subject of this poem is the childhood of Frederic Myers’s
second son, Harold ;
and the eighth verse of it runs
:
“ Borne to us hitherward.
Ah ! from what shore ?
Voyaging whitherward.
Child, evermore?”
VI.
Mrs Verrall’s script of March 25 contributed the next link
of the chain.
The first half of this script has been already cited in
Section XVI as part of the evidence for the cross-correspon-
dence “Euripides”; and the second half in Section XVII. as
part of the evidence for the cross-correspondence “Angel”.
252 J. G. Pidclington. [part
But though superficially this script seems to embrace two
independent subjects, in reality the two subjects are related,
and so here the whole script is quoted in full :
—
Claviger the bearer of the Key and Club
clavem gerens trans Pontem
trans Hellespontem et insuper
mare ad urbem antea Byzantineam postea de ipsius
nomine nominatam.
The Club and Key—East and West, look for the Eastex’n
sign of the Club ex pede Herculem
The Hercules stoiy comes in there and the clue is in the
Euripides play if you could only see it.
Bound to the pillar—I told you before of Sebastian, it is
the same story of the archer and the binding to the
pillar.
I want a special message to get to you. I have tried several
times, but you have not understood. I dont know where
it went wrong. But let Piddington know when you get
a message about shadow,—remember the Virgilian line
indignantis sub umbras. To you they are shadows—like
the shadows in Plato’s cave but they are shadows of the
real.
quae cum vides bene comprehendere possis quae tibi nunc
fusco colore obdita paene obscurata videntur, et tamen in
somniis aliquando UMBRAKUM volitantia corpora
percipis—immo pro corporibus animas dicere melius
—
quae tibi per somnum mentem immortalia tangunt
haec cape, quis captis non desine
no not that
summum ad tingere comes in
It means that there and thus does this mortal put on
253
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
immortality, by keeping hold of the things, the true
things seen in sleep. Why could he not say that ?
et nos attingimus caelum
But when so many things flit through the mind it is hard
to seize and hold what is true. I think I have this time.
Ask if he understands.
The shadow of a shade.
that is better umbrarum umbras o-Ktas ei'SwAov was what
I wanted to get written, goodbye.
For translations of the Latin and Greek phrases and for other
explanations the reader is referred to p. 214 and pp. 223-4.
The first part of this script obviously forms a sequel to that
of March 4 ;
for both refer to (a) Heracles ;
(b) the Hercules
Fttrens of Euripides ;
and (c) some obscure point connected
with an incident in the Hercides Furens, namely, the binding
of Heracles to a pillar.
But a fresh point is introduced into the script of March 25
by the word “ claviger ” : which has the double meaning of
“bearing a club” and of “bearing a key”. The Club is said to
typify the East, and the Key to typify the West.
“ Claviger ” in the sense of “ club-bearer ” is an epithet applied
to Hercules by Latin poets ;
but in the sense of “ key-bearer ” is
never applied to him.
In the earliest Greek representations of Heracles his emble-
matic weapon is a bow and arrows. It is only at a later period
that he is represented with a Club (clava) and a Lion’s skin,
and these emblems are of Oriental origin. (v. Preller, Gr.
Myth. II, 113.) Consequently Heracles’ Club may legitimately
serve as a svmbol of the East.
“Claviger” in the sense of “key-bearer” seems to occur only
in Ovid Fasti 1, where it is applied to Janus. I have not
the least doubt that the scribe on March 25 was alluding to Ovid
Fasti I, where the attributes and functions of the god Janus are
described, and that in this passage of Ovid is to be found the
clue to the explanation of the opening paragraphs of the script.
I will accordingly summarise what Ovid says in Fasti I
about Janus :
—
Janus is the origin of the year; he has two heads ;
he is an essentially
Latin deity with no Greek counterpart ;
he alone of the gods sees what
254 J. G. Pidclington. [part
is behind and what before; he holds in his right hand a staff (baculum)
and in his left a key (clavis); he had first been known as Chaos, and had
accordingly been a deity of formless bulk ;
but when Cosmos had been
evolved from Chaos he took upon him a form and limbs such as befit a
god, though traces of his original formlessness still remain in the same-
ness of his fore and hinder parts ;
he is the Opener and the Shutter of
all natural processes ;
he it is who turns the pivot on which the
four quarters of the heavens revolve; who locks up War and sends
forth Peace; he is the door-keeper of the courts of heaven, and, just
as a door-keeper sees who enters and who leaves a house, so he with
his double face looks upon both the East and the West at the same
moment of time (Sic ego perspicio caelestis janitor aulae Eoas partes
liesperiasque sim.ul.)
;
he is the god both of beginnings and of endings;
before the time of Saturn’s expulsion from Olympus, he abode in
Latium alongside the Tiber, and his dwelling-place was the hill,
now called in his honour the Janiculum, on which the temple of
Janus stands; as war did not then exist on the earth, he was at
this time god of Peace and of Door-posts only, and as such bore for
emblem a key. {Et clavem ostenclens ‘ Haec ait, ‘ arma gero.’)
It will be seen from this summary that Janus in diverse
ways represented the union in one person of opposite qualities
or functions : that he was, so to speak, an identifier of opposites
;
and it should especially he observed that he alone of all the
gods could look upon East and West simultaneously.
In the same Fasti of Ovid (11. 543 et seq) is told the
story of how the other “claviger”, Hercules, on his way from
Erytheia arrives in Italy driving the oxen of Geryon :
Ecce hoves illuc Erytheidas agoqolicat heros
Emensus longi claviger orbis iter.
The oxen were stolen by Cacus, but recovered by Hercules
who fells the thief with his “ trebly-knotted club ”, and in
gratitude for his victory sacrifices one of the herd of oxen to
Jupiter, and invites Evander to be present at the sacrifice.
The episode concludes with the statement that Evander’s
mother, Carmentis, who foretold that Hercules would soon
become a god, herself became a goddess and has her festival
on the 11th day of the month of Janus {Possidet hunc Jani
sic dea mense diem).
255
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
It may be that Ovid in applying the epithet “claviger”
to two of the principal figures in the first book of his Fasti
meant thereby to hint at some kind of mythological relation
between the two. Anyhow the fact remains that Ovid seems
to be the only Latin writer who uses the word “ claviger ” in
the sense of “ key-bearer ”, that he applies it to Janus, that he
applies it to him in the same book of the Fasti in which
he calls Hercules “claviger” “the club-bearer”, and in which
he mentions the slaying of Geryon in Erytheia and that one
only of the labours of Hercules.
Once again {Fasti V. 621 et seq) Ovid refers to Hercules’
arrival in Italy with the oxen of Geryon ;
and then in con-
nection with the story of how Hercules was the first to throw
dummy figures instead of live human victims from the Sublician
Bridge as sacrifices to Vulcan. Janus and the Janiculum, though
not actually mentioned in this passage, must almost inevitably
be brought to the mind of the classical reader of it by Ovid’s
allusion (1. 621) to the Sublician Bridge. This was the oldest
bridge across the Tiber, and for long formed the only and
always the most direct means of access to the Janiculum, which
was in fact the tete de qmnt of the Pons Sublicius.
Honoured on this same Janiculum—the site, according to
one tradition, of his crucifixion ^
—is another “ claviger ”, he to
whom were given the keys of the Kingdom of Heaven.- To
St. Peter as to Janus the words of Ovid may be applied
:
Ille tenens hacidum dextra clavemque sinistra,
for besides the key both bear as an emblem the shepherd’s
statf ;
and, moreover, to both belongs the title of “janitor caeli ”,
“ doorkeeper of heaven ”.
With these explanatory comments before him, the reader
will be able to follow the interpretation I am now about to
1 According to one tradition St. Peter was crucified on the Janiculan near
the spot where now stands the Church of S. Pietro in Montorio. Another, and
far better authenticated, tradition places his martyrdom on the Vatican Hill
which adjoins the Janiculan. Which of the two traditions has the better
foundation, or whether indeed either is deserving of belief, are, of course,
questions absolutely irrelevant to the point at issue.
- For an earlier reference in Mrs Verrall’s script to “ claviger”, with apparently
a double reference to St. Peter and Hercules, see Proc. Part LV. pp. 298-.301.
256 J. G. Piddington. [part
offer of the thought which I believe lies behind the opening
paragraphs of the script of March 25 :
—
“ The epithet ‘
claviger ’
recalls three different characters
:
Heracles, Janus and St. Peter. Heracles is partly Eastern, partly
Western, and his Club is one of the signs of the Oriental
elements in his mythology. Janus is a purely Western deity,
and the key is the symbol of his power of Opening and
Shutting—one of various antithetical powers attributed to
him, of which another instance is his power of seeing the East
and the West simultaneously. To St. Peter, an Oriental
and first bishop of the Church that was to rule the
Western world, belongs the Power of the Keys, the power
of binding and loosino-J of excludinof from or admitting into
the Kingdom of Heaven; and St. Peter’s Ke}^s may symbolise
the Western, as Heracles’ Club the Eastern world. All three,
then, in one way or another represent the union of East and
West.
All three, moreover, are connected with the Pons Sublicius,
and two of them with the Janiculum. Heracles on his return
from Erytheia stood on the Pons Sublicius and thence threw
straw-stuffed figures into the Tiber as sacrifices to Vulcan.
Janus crossed the Pons Sublicius to go to his arx ;
St. Peter
to go to his martyrdom on the Janiculum.”
Purthermore, the script contains an implicit allusion to the
bridging of the Hellespont by Xerxes ;
for though it is the
“claviger” (in the sense, apparently, of key-bearer, not of club-
bearer) who bears “ the key across the bridge and over the
sea ”, the words “ trans pontem trans Hellespoutem et insuper
mare” involve a play on pontem and {Helles)pontum which
can allude only to Xerxes : the pontem being the bridge
which Xerxes had built between Abydos and Sestos, and by
means of which he and his army crossed Helles pontum (i.e.
the Sea of Helle, or the Hellespont). This allusion to Xerxes
may have been suggested b}^ an idea manifestly present in the
scribe’s mind : the idea, that is, of the union of East and
West as typified by Heracles. Heracles and Xerxes repi’esent
this union in different ways : the one united East and West
only in a metaphorical sense, the other did so in a literal
^Cf. the script of March 4: “Binding and loosing.”
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 257
sense by means of the bridge which reached from the shores
of Asia to the shores of Europe.
But the emblem of the Club is by no means the only reason
for connectingr Heracles with the East. That the Greek legend
of Heracles was largely influenced by and in part derived from
Eastern mythology is universally recognised. Thus Mr. E. H.
Blakeney, the most recent editor of the Hercules Furens, after
comparing the story of Heracles with that of the Babylonian
hero Gilgames, writes: “In fact, the parallelisms are too close
to admit of any other explanation than that the Heracles-myth
owed its inception to Babylonia, whence it made its way to
the shores of the Mediterranean in the dawn of history. Traces
of its progress are to be found in the myths and legends
attributed to Melkarth, the Phoenician Heracles; and, doubt-
le.ss, the Hebrew Samson^ story presents many curious similarities
to the Epic of Gilgames The sacrifice of quails by the
Phoenicians was said to commemorate the I’esurrection of
Heracles, restored to life by the god Eshmun-Iolaos, who gave
him a quail to smell A Phoenician bas-relief has been
discovered (in Cyprus) repi'esenting Heracles carrying off the
oxen of Geryon,—a fact which bears out the contention as to
the importation of the legend of Heracles into Greece at some
early epoch. Herodotus describes the temple of Heracles at
Tyre, attributing to it an antiquity of 2300 years before his
own time.”
The allusion in the script of March 25 to Heracles as a
type of the union of East and West is therefore fully justified.
But what is to be made of the stress laid in both the
scripts in question upon the tying of Heracles to a pillar?
I can only suggest that the .scribe, wishing to intimate yet
another reason why Heracles may typify the union of East
and West, hinted that Heracles was a “pillar-god”, and a
pillar’-god who was in a way a connecting link between two
other pillar-gods, one of whom, Prometheus, was the pillar-god
of the East, and the other, Atlas, the pillar-god of the West.
This conjectural explanation, far-fetched though it may seem
^ In view of what is said below the binding of Samson and his connection
with pillars should be noted.
R
J. G. Piddington.
258 [part
to be, is not without some grounds of support, which I will
brietly indicate.
For the statement that Prometheus and Atlas were pillar-
gods, and pillar-gods respectively of East and West, I refer the
reader to a paper by Miss Jane E. Harrison entitled The Pillar
and the MoAden {Proceedings of the Classical Associatio^i for
1907, Vol. V.). The pillar-gods Prometheus and Atlas were
brothers; Prometheus accoi'ding to Hesiod {Theog. 517-522)
was bound, like Heracles in the play, to a pillar ;
Atlas,
according to Homer {Odyssey, I, 52), upheld the pillars which
keep earth and sky a])art. It was Heracles who released
Pi'ometheus from his bondage, and Heracles who for a time
relieved Atlas from the labour of upholdinof his pillars. Perhaps,
too, the myth about the two pillars (the Pillars of Hercules),
which he set up on his way to Erytheia at the frontiers of
Europe and Libya, points to the existence of a primitive pillar-
cult of Heracles.
None of the ingenious people who mythologise mythology
has, so far as I know, claimed Heracles as a |)illar-god ;
but he
seems to possess as good a title to the dignity as plenty of
other deities; and the scribe may, I suggest, have been putting
in a claim for him.
But, it may be objected, though Prometheus is alluded to
in the script of March 4, there is no allusion in either script
to Atlas. That is true, but in the Phercules Parens (11. 403-7),
to which play both scripts plainly refer, the Chorus, just after
mentioning the slaying of Geryon, speaks of Heracles’ exploit
“ when he came to the home of Atlas, and, for valour’s sake,
held up the god’s star-visaged mansions ”.
In Ijoth scripts it is clear that the scribe means that there
is some point in the Hercales Parens that the commentators
have missed; and that this point has to do with the incident
of the binding to the pillar, and is also in some way mixed
up with the East and West: “The Club and Ke}'—East and
West look for the Eastern sign of the Club ex pede Herculem.
The Hercules story comes in there and the clue is in the
1 Since writing the above I hnd that Raoul Rochette suggested that Heracles
was worshipped under the form of a pillar ; hut his suggestion seems to have
been ignored by archaeologists of the present daj'.
259
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Euripides play if you could only see it. Bound to the pillar
—
I told you before of Sebastian, it is the same story of the
archer and the binding to the pillar.”
But the question now arises : why is Sebastian introduced ?
St. Sebastian is represented in mediaeval art as bound either
to a pillar, a column or a tree. Mantegna’s picture of his
martyrdom in the Vienna Gallery portrays him bound to a
pillar near a ruined triumphal arch ;
and in other pictures
(e.g. Pinturicchio’s S. Sehastiano in the Vatican) ruined
arches oi‘ temples appear also ;
and it has been suggested that
the ruined arches symbolise the destruction of the heathen
I
lowers. (See Mrs Jamieson’s Sacred and Legendary Art,
p. 416.) He is almost, though not quite, invariably represented
as pierced by arrows.
The piillar, which Heracles in his madness fell against and broke
and to which he was bound, and his arrows, might readily
enough suggest the pillar the broken arches and the arrows
associated with St. Sebastian ;
and the pillar-god the pillar-saint.
But if “claviger” was meant as an allusion to St. Peter as
well as to Heracles and Janus, there may well have been
another reason for the mention of St. Sebastian and of his
being bound to a pillar ;
for tradition says that St. Peter was
chained for nine months to a pillar in the Mamertine prison.
And another reason why the thought of one saint might suggest
the other lies in the fact that the body of St. Peter was on
two separate occasions removed from its original tomb on the
Vatican to the catacombs of St. Sebastian.
I turn now to the remaining paragraphs of the script of
March 25.
They contain, as has already been pointed out (v. pp. 223-5),
various words or expressions-—shadow, shadows, umbrae, animae,
shadow of a shade, umbrarum umbras, (TKtd^ e’lSwXop—which
all more or less suggest the idea of ghosts or spirits ;
and also
a clear intimation that “shadow” is the subject of a cross-
correspondence experiment. The writing of “shadow” and
“tenebrae” in Mrs Holland’s script of March 27, and of “spirit”
in Mrs Piper’s trance of April 8, I regard as constituting the
successful accomplishment of this experiment. But the scribe
260 J. G. Piddington. [part
meant to do something more than provide the first term of a
triple cross-correspoudei]ce ;
namely, to connect the preceding
references to Heracles with the distinctive word e’/dcoXor, and
thereby to connect the whole script, as well its prelude, the
script of March 4, primarily with the passage from Plotinus’
Enneades quoted in Human Personality (Vol. II p. 290) and
with In Memoriam xciii, and secondarily with aurd? ovpavog
f /
aKVfJiicv.
The scribe, it should be observed, is not satisfied until e'lSwXov
has been written :
“ irvm? e’/dwXor was what I wanted to get
written. Good bye”. He is satisfied neither with umbrae,
which is the word used to describe in a general way the dwellers
in the underworld ;
nor Avith animae, which is applied sometimes
to the dwellers in the underworld, sometimes to the souls of the
Blest, and sometimes to souls about to be reincarnated ;
but only
with ei'dfoXor^ which is used by Plotinus to distinguish the
phantasmal reflection of a spirit from the real and imper-
ceptible spirit itself. The allusion to the shadows in Plato’s
cave enforces the view that the scribe was throughout aiming
to get e’lSwXov written in order to recall both the passage in
Plotinus and the y»assage in the Odyssey where the elSwXov of
Heracles is contrasted with Heracles himself (auT09 ); for in
Plato’s allegory of the prisoners in the cave (Plato Rep. 516)
the same distinction is drawn between e'lOwXov and auTo?
:
TrpwTOv p.€P rd? (T/c/u? dV pnaTa KaQopcp, kcu p.6Ta tovto ev Toi?
uSa(Ti TCI T€ TOW ui'9po}~oop KCU Tu TOW c'lWwp e’/ocoXu, VfTTepOP Se
’ / 0
avTa.
"
[A |)i'isoner released from the cave and dragged into the
sunlight] “will first see the shadows best, next the reflections
(elSwXa) of men and other objects in the water, and then the
objects themselves (cxvtc'i).” (Jowett’s translation.)
1 For a reference to dSwXov by Myersn on .Jan. 7, 1904 v. Proc. Part LV.
p. 215. In a paper entitled On recognised apparitions occurring more than a
year after death (Proc. Vol. VI p. 64) Frederic Myers had contrasted Homer’s
and Plotinus’ uses of ddwXov.
2 If the scribe had this passage of Plato in mind it would suggest that the
words (TKiaj dSwXov were a correctly (juoted reminiscence of Soph. Fr. 587,
where they are used of the reflection of herself in the water seen by a mare,
rather than, as suggested on p. 22.3, an inversion of the dooAov aKias in
Aeschylus’ Agamemnon.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 261
The emergence of the phrase et nos attingimus caelum was
probably due to the scribe’s preoccupation with Heracles and
his deification. Ovid {Met. IX 239 et seq) lays great stress
on the fact that Heracles’ body was not translated to heaven,
but burnt, and that it was only the eternal part of him
which “ the omnipotent father bore aloft amid the glittering
stars ” and received into “ the heavenly shores
VII.
The next contribution to the chain of ideas was made by
Mrs. Holland, whose script of Wednesday, March 27 read as
follows
:
Birds in the high Hall Garden
—
Not Maud Sylvia
—
The poor right hand is so dreadfully tired
At the wrist not in the ball of the thumb
—
rTake the left hand only it is not the right
I
hand that is tired,
j
Peter is the second one
iBut look at it right way up
Hold it to the mirror. The shinins; world of
O
looking glass.
I sprained my wrist once
B.
g .S [Talem uttorque surgit absidem (or, exsulem)
^ lux toto dum Sine ab horos (?) tenebrae.
C> ‘S Via obscura vita lucet.
And o’er the flats the singing of the sea
—
Ebbed like the thought of long forgiven wrong
—
The abiding horror to me was that of darkness—Let sorrow
take any other shape it will—Love and Sorrow—Sorrow
and Love—as inevitably as Light and Shadow
—
Shadow and Li»ht.
O
The sundial at Broadmeadows what was the motto ?
Not Jane’s husband—the other one
—
Alexander—Moors head—Antres vast and deserts idle
—
One not easily jealous. Benissima cara
—
(Drawing of a mast) The tall mast, but this one is not at
sea.
2G2 [part
J. G. Piddington.
With the concluding paragraphs from “Not Jane’s husband”
to the end we have no concern. For comments on the Latin
words the I’eader is referred to pp. 225-6.
Mrs Verrali’s script of March 25 had contained the words:
“ let Piddington know when you get a message about
shadow ”, a clear indication that “ shadow ” was the subject
of a cross-coi’respondence. This script of Mrs Holland’s,
written two days later, contained the word “ shadow
”
twice, and also tenehrae. The cross-correspondence involved in
these coincidences I have dealt with in Section XVII pp. 225-7.
The “shadow” of Mrs Verrall’s script I have connected for
reasons given above with the etSwXop or shade of Heracles in
the underworld.
Now here in this script of Mi’s Holland’s, which contains a
ci’oss-correspondence with Mrs Verrall’s “ sliadow,” occurs a
reference to Tenny.son’s Matul: “Birds in the high Hall
Garden”: followed by the curious phrase: “Not Maud Sylvia”.
The name Sylvia, as will appear later (v. pp. 275 and 278),
links this script of Mrs Holland’s on to another script of hers
containing an unmistakable reference to Browning’s HeraMes-
—
i.e. his verse-ti-anslation of the Hercules Furens. Hence both
Mrs Holland’s and Mrs Verrah’s “ shadow ” scripts are connected
with Heracles.
VIII.
The next link in the chain is formed by Mrs Verrall’s script
of April 3 (v. p. 227-8).
The whole script I take to be expressive of the idea “Angel”
or “ Angels ”, and to constitute a cross-correspondence with the
word “ Angel ” given in Mrs Piper’s trance of April 8.
But it corresponds also with Mrs Holland’s script of April 8
(quoted on p. 265), and corresponds in more than one respect.
Mrs Verrall’s script contains the word “ Paradise ” written in
prominent characters ;
and Mrs Holland’s the word “ Paradise ”.
This was the only occurrence of the word “Paradise” in Mrs
Verrall’s script between November 16, 1906 and May 13, 1907 ;
and the only occurrence of the word “ Paradiso ” in Mrs
Holland’s between November 21, 1906 and July 10, 1907.
But the coincidence was not merely a verbal one, for Mrs
•263
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Verrall, who knew nothing of Mrs Holland’s script of
April 8, on April 28, 1907 noted in her diaiy (v. p. 264)
that her script of April 3 was probably “ a preliminary
attempt at Dante’s Paradiso This script might at first sight
appear to suggest Milton’s Paradise Lost or Paradise
Regained or both rather than Dante’s Paradiso. But if the
reader will refer to the script he will see that the scribe
tlu’oughout expresses dissatisfaction at what has been written
until the figure of an angel is drawn :
“ No, not quite
that”—“flaming swords”—“no” —“you keep going round the
ideas instead of giving three plain words”—“Of man’s first
Disobedience. No, that is something else”
—“No, I can’t get
it at all. Leave it today
—”.
“Of man’s first disobedience” is the first line of Milton’s
Paradise Lost, and the scribe says plaiidy that that is not
the idea which he is trying to express. Mrs Verrall, there-
fore, was fully justified in not regarding Paraxlise Lost as
the subject of her script of April 3. While Mrs Verrall,
then, interprets the script of April 3 as a probable first
attempt at Dante’s Paradiso, Mrs Holland’s script contains
the word “ Paradiso ”. But the coincidence extends somewhat
further, for Mrs Holland’s script contains besides the word
“Paradiso” a latent allusion to Canto XSVII of the Purgatorio;
and in this Canto an Angel bids Dante go forward through
the fire which leads to the terrestrial Paradise (v. p. 267).
IX.
Mrs Verrall’s script of April 6, 1907 contributes the next
topic or rather two topics. In Section XVIII this script of April
6 was treated as constituting a cross-coi'respondence with the
words “ O’er mountains, seas and lakes and rivers ”, uttered in
Mrs Piper’s trance. These words were seemingly connected
in the trance with Wordsworth’s poem “ I wandered lonely as
a Cloud”, and they also seemed to be reminiscent of a poem
by F. W. H. Myei’S, the scenery of which is the Lake District
or W^ordsworth Country ;
and for this reason I took i\Irs
Verrall’s script of April 6, “I wandered lonely as a Cloud”
and “ O’er mountains, seas and lakes and rivers” to be all three
264 J. G. Piddington. [part
various ways of expressing one idea, namely, the Wordsworth
Country.
Mrs Verrall, however, had placed another interpretation on
her script of April 6, as the following copy of an entry made
in her diary on April 28 shows :
Final verifying of references shows me that mysc.[ript] of Ap. 6 was
an attempt to say Lethe, with a distinct reference [i.e. “ the storied
mount ”] to Dante’s Purgatorio, which I have read and must be taken
to know. Probabl}" the sc.[ript] of Ap. 3 [v. pp. 227-8] is a
preliminary attempt at Dante’s Paradiso, but at the time I did
not see it. I wonder if there has been any Dante in the P.[iper]
trance, or if I shall get it tomorrow.
With this interpretation I agree ;
but because I now hold
that the script of April 6 may allude to the Mount of Purgatory
and the River of Lethe, I do not the less hold that, as suggested
above (p. 238), it also corresponds to “ O’er mountains, seas
and lakes and rivers” and “I wandered lonely as a Cloud that
boats on high o’er hill and dale”. That two diberent ideas
should be implicit in a single scri|)t of an apparently homo-
geneous character—that, in other words, a script sliould ])ossess
a double reference will not, I hope, seem to be an improbable
hypothesis; and in any case the fact must not be over-
looked that, when Mrs Verrall arrived at her interjjretation
and I at mine, neither of us had the faintest conception of
the existence of a complicated series of inter-related subjects
latent in the automatic writings or speech of Mrs Holland,
Mrs Piper and Mrs Verrall, into which both Wordsworth’s
Country and the Mountain of Purgatory and River of Lethe
would bt.
X.
On April 8, within an interval of 9 hours, three concordant
contributions to the concatenation of ideas were made, one in
Mrs Holland’s script, one in Mrs Piper’s trance, and one in
Mrs Verrall’s script. These scri[)ts are quoted below in chrono-
logical order, and are numbered respectively X**, X'^ and X“ ;
and
to each are aj^pended explanatory comments.
lvil]
X^.
A Series of Concordant Automcdisnis. 265
Copy of part of Mrs Holland’s scrip>t of April 8, 1907, begun
at 1 p.m. Calmtta time (i.e. 7 a.m. Greemvich time).
Is the Paradiso mental relaxation'? I should recommend
prose—English prose—fiction
—
The constellation of Orion.
The tall spire shows above the mellow redness of the wall
—
Do you remember that excpiisite sky when the afterglow
made the East as beautiful and as richly coloured as
the West—Martha became as Mar)'—and Leah as
Rachel—
“ With such a purple and sea blue grace
Love settling unawares ”
—
Omitting for the moment the first two paragraphs, I will
explain by means of a paraphrase the train of thought that,
in my view, runs through the remainder of the extract ;
—
“ When the aftergdow of a sunset makes the sombre East
as bright as the West, these two diametrically opposed quarters
of the heaven become, as it were, one ;
a unification of opposites
as strange as though the restless Martha were to grow as
tranquil as Mary, or the blear-eyed Leah as beautiful as Rachel.”
The combination of metaj^hors here gives rise to a fresh idea
and one divergent from the central thought;
—
“ Even as the afterglow may^ convert the dim Eastei'n sky
into a blaze of light, so ‘Love settling unawares’ invests with
grace and beauty the characters of drab, commonplace men
and women.”
With such a 'purple and sea blue grace Love settling un-
aivares is a misquotation of two lines in R. Browning’s James
Lees Wife
:
“
With such a blue and red grace, not theirs,
—
Love settling unawares !
”
The significance attaching to The constellation of Orion will
be explained later.
Is the Paradiso nientcd relaxation ? . . . Martha became as
Mary—and Leah as Pachel. In the Purgatorio Dante has
266 J. 0. Piddington. [part
three visions, all prophetic, namely the Eagle (Canto IX. 19-33),
the Siren (Canto XIX. 7-33) and Leah and Rachel (Canto
XXVII. 97-108j. This la.st is his final vision before entering
Paradise, and is introduced as follows :
—
‘
In the hour, methink.s, wlien Cytherea, who seeraeth ever burning
with fire of love, first beamed from the east on the mount, meseemed
to behold in a dream, a lady, young and fair going along a plain
gathering flowers, and singing she said :
“ Know, whoso asketh my name, that I am Leah, and go moving
my fair hands around to make me a garland. To please me at the
glass here I deck me ;
but Rachel my sister ne’er stirs from her
mirror, and sitteth all day ;
she is fain to behold her fair eyes, as I
to deck me with my hands : her, contemplation ;
me, action, doth
satisfy.”
v^nd now at the brightness e’er dayspring born, the
shades of night were fleeing on every side, and my sleep with them ’.
{Temple Classics Edition.)
The note on this passage in the Temple Classics Edition is
as follows :
—
“ This third and last vision of Dante’s, in wliich Leah and Rachel,
the Old Testament types of the Active and Contemplative Life
{Cen. xxix. sqq.), appear to him, is a forecast of the positions
Matilda and Beatrice will occupy in the earthly Paradise
In the New Testament the types are represented by Martha and
Mary; see [Dante’s] Convito IV, 17: 85-111: “Verily, it is to be
known that we can have in this life two happinesses by following
two different roads, both good and excellent, which lead to them ;
the one is the Active Life, and the other is the Contemplative Life,
which (although by the Active Life one may attain, as has been
said, to a good state of happiness) leads us to supreme happiness,
even as the philosopher proves it in the tenth book of the Ethics ;
and Christ affirms it with his own lips in the gospel of Luke, speaking
to Martha, when replying to her :
“ Martha, Martha, thou art anxious
and troubled about many things : verily one thing alone is needful,”
meaning, that which thou hast in hand; and He adds: “Mary has
chosen the better part, which shall not be taken from her.” And
Mary, according to that which is previously written in the gospel,
sitting at the feet of Christ showed no care for the service of the
house, but listened only to the words of the Saviour. For if we
LVII.] A Seines of Concordant Automatisms. 267
will explain this in the moral sense, Our Lord wished to show thereby
that the Contemplative Life was supremely good, although the Active
Life might be good ;
this is evident to him who will give his mind
to the words of the gospel.”
It appears, then, that in Dante as in Mrs Holland’s script
Leah and Rachel and .Martha and Mary are instanced as
alternative types of opposite temperaments. Had no further
indication of their source been given, one might have con-
jectured, but could hardly have felt reasonably certain, that the
illustrations given in the script were derived from Dante ;
but
just before the mention of the two pairs of Biblical characters
the script has a reference to Dante’s Pavadiso ;
and that
being the case the conclusion seems to me to be inevitable
that the scribe was reproducing ideas contained in the Pur-
gatorio, Canto XXVII, and in the Gonvito. With the Gonvito
we have no further concern, but a closer acquaintance with
the subject-matter of Canto XXVII of the Piirgatorio and of
part of its sequel. Canto XXVIII, is essential, as it will
reveal the source of .several of the subjects which the directing
intelligence fitted into the concatenation of ideas distributed
among the various automatists.'
Summary of Cantos XXVII and XXVIII of Dante’s
PURGATOEIO.
As the sun is setting an Angel of God appears before Vergil
and Dante and bids them pass through the fire to the last
stage of the ascent of the Mountain of Purgatory, on the sumtnit
of which is situated the Terrestrial Paradise. Dante is terrified
at the prospect of having to pass through the fire but is
encouraged by Vergil, who reminds him of a previous and a
greater danger through which he had brought him in safety :
“ Remember thee, remember thee, if I
Safe e’en on Geryon brought thee ;
now I come
More near to God, wilt thou not trust me now ?
”
1 Mrs Holland, who frequently recognises and points out the source of
literary allusions and quotations contained in her script, did not know the
source of the allusions to Martha and Mary and Leah and Rachel.
268 J. G. Piddington. [part
They begin the ascent, but have not gone far before the
fall of night hinders further progress. They lie down to rest,
and Dante falls asleep. In the early morning, “ in the hour
when Cytherea (i.e. the planet Venus) first beamed from the East
on the Mount” of Purgatory, he has a vision of Leah and Rachel,
who typify respectively the active and the contemplative life.
Ilante then awakes, the ascent is continued and the summit
cjuickly reached.
(Canto XXVIII 11. 1-75). Dante enters the Terrestrial
Paradise, and reaches the River of Lethe. On the opposite bank
of the river he sees Matilda, whose eyes “ shot such splendour
on him, as” he weens “ne’er glanced from Cytherea’s” (i.e. from
the eyes of the goddess Venus, or Aphrodite). The stream
sejiarates them by only three paces :
“ Yet,” says Dante,
“ The Hellespont, where Xerxes pass’d it o’ei’,
(A curb for ever to the pride of man,)
Was by Leander not more hateful held
For floating, with inhospitable wave,
’Twixt Sestus and Abydos, than by me
That flood, because it gave no passage thence.”^
Extract from record of sitting vAth Mrs Piper held on April
8, 1907 hctvxen 11.30 cun. and 1.10 p.m.
(Present : E. M. S. alone)
(Myers communicating)
Do you remember euripide.s.
E. M. S. IVhat is that ? “ Euripides ” 1
I meant to say Harold.
1 In F. W. H. Myers’s Essays Classical (p. 92) references to “ Xerxes”, “East
and West ” and “ Dante” are to be found all within the space of a few lines :
—
“Christ, like Xerxes, came against the Greek spirit Ivpirjyeves apya Scuikcov,
driving a Syrian car ;
the tide of conquest was rolling back again, and the
East was claindng an empire such as the West had never won.
We, indeed, knowing all the flower of European Christianity in Dante’s
age, all its ripening fruit in our own, may see that this time from the East
light came.”
269
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
E. M. S. “ Harold ” ?
Yes. Well
E. M. S. To whom did )'ou say “Harold”'?
to Mrs V. [Mrs Verrall.]
Ho you remember. Spirit and Angel.
I gave both [i.e. to Mrs Verrall]
E. M. S. You gave that?
Both and
them
To (?) the stars.i
In the wakino'-stage the following words were uttered :
I say Aphrodite. I’m standing with them. Henry.
They say . . . see about Roland. Les Val. Goodbye,
^lalli (?)
Corrie. Corrie Alarshall
They said Elliot. There’s Mr Myers and Elliot.
Iliad. I’m glad. Try again. Discourage.
Don’t give me up ;
try again.
Light in West.
I’ll tell you more. If I can reach over the bar I’ll repeat
this letter.
Tout ensemble.
The references to Rolands and Les Val are unexplained.
Corrie Alarsliall was the name of an aunt of Frederic Myers’s
(v. Proc. Vol. VI, p. 439). The brief omitted passage relates to
two American sittei’s, and has no connection with what pre-
cedes or follows it.
I'll repeat this letter makes no sense, and was probably a
mi.shearing or mispronunciation of “I’ll repeat this later”.
'I think it not improbable that “To the Stars” was an allusion to the
last two words of the last line of Dante’s Purgatorio. The last word of all
three divisions of the Divina Gommedia is “stelle”, the Purgatorio ending
with the words “ alle stelle”, i.e. “to the stars”. The last Canto (XXXIII)
of the Purgatorio describes how Dante arrives at the fountain which is the
common source of the two streams, Lethe and Eunoe ; and how, having drunk
before of the waters of Lethe, he now drinks of the waters of Eunoe, and
returns “from the most holy wave, regenerate, . .
.
pure and made apt for
mounting to the stars ”.
270 J. G. Piddington. [part
Tout ensemble may possibly be a mishearing or mispro-
nunciation of “ Toutes ensemble
It should be observed that “Euripides”, “Harold”, “Spirit
and Angel”, “Aphrodite”, “Iliad”, “Light in West”, and
“If I can reach over the bar” all emerged—and all emero'ed
O
for the first time—at the same sitting-.
Aphrodite is the name of the Greek deity whom the Romans
called Venus. One of the titles most frequently given her
both in Greek and Latin is Cytherea.
Elliot and Iliad. On April 30 Myersp said that “ Homer’s
Illiard ” was one of the things of which acrd? od/oard? ukv/ucov
had reminded him ;
and I have already pointed out (v.
pp. 133-4) that the utterance of “Iliad” during the waking-
stage of the trance of April 8 was probably the first emei'gence
of the more definite statement made on April 30 and that
“Elliot” is very likely indeed a defective pronunciation or a
mishearing of “ Iliad
If I can reach over the bar, etc. I take as indicating an
attempt to give a cross-cori-esponding message on account of
its resemblance to such phrases in Mrs Verrall’s script as: “I
stretch my hands across the vaporous space, the interlunar
space—-twixt moon and earth ”, “ I stretch my hand acro.ss the
gulf of time—the intervening space twixt world and world ”,
which I believe have the same significance ;
though the
utilisation for this purpose here of a phrase reminiscent of
Grossing the Bar was probably suggested by the previous
mention of the Iliad, with which Myersp subsequently associ-
ated avT09 oupum? uKup-cov, after having previously associated
these Greek words with Grossing the Bar.
That the phrase does refer to a cross-correspondence ex-
periment is rendered all the more likely by its immediate
context, which if read as “ Tout ensemble ” must apply to
the putting together of two or more things to form a whole,
or, if read as “ toutes ensemble,” ^ to the confederate action of
two or more persons (feminine).
Ligltt in West will be discussed later.
MVith the suggested reading “toutes ensemble’’ cf. dia waaCov pvdixb's in Miss
Verrall’s script of Febr. 17, 1907, p. 70.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 271
X".
Copy of part of Mrs Verrall’s script of Aiyril 8, 1907,
ended at 3.10 p.m.
The words were from Maud but you did not understand.
Eosy is the east and so on.
You will find that you have written a message for Mr
Piddington which you did not understand but he did.
Tell him that.
No more now—write again this evening.
The whole script is reproduced above except the first sentence
consisting of 13 words. This sentence merely contained the
statement that “Talbot Forbes”^ would give a message to Mrs
Verrall in the evening, and has no connection with the rest of
the script.
The ivords ivere from Maud . . . Rosy is tite east and so on
obviously refers to Tenu}'son’s Maud, which, however, is mis-
quoted, as Mrs Yerrall knew and heiself pointed out.'^ The
quotation should be “ Eosy is the West ”, not “ East ”.
The words and so on imply that signiticance attaches not
only to “Rosy is the East” but to its context as well.
“ Ros3
"
is the West” is the fifth and also the twent3
^-fifth
line of the poem in Maud that opens
“ Go not, happy daj^
From the shining fields.”
The, second occurrence of the line is immediately preceded
by this verse :
“ Blush from West to East,
Blush from East to West,
Till the West is East,
Blush it thro’ the West.”
You xvill find that you have written a message for Air
Piddington %chich you, did, not lunderstand hat he did.
iFor “Talbot Forbes” v. Proc. Vol. XX. pp. et ieq.
“For a significant misquotation similarly recognised by the automatist herself
V. p. 6.3.
272 J. G. Piddington. [part
It is not clear whether this sentence refers to the message
“ Ptosy is the east” just written, or to some other iinspecitied
message written on a previous occasion. If to the latter, it is
true that more than once Mrs Verrall’s script contained things
which were intelligible to me but not to Mrs Verrall. If to
the former, it may be taken as an indication that “ Rosy is
tlie east” is the subject of a cross-correspondence, as otherwise
there would be no object in mentioning my name. Mrs
Verrall saw no meaning in this script, and no more did I
until 5 or 6 months after it was written, when for the first
time I compared it with Mrs Holland’s script of April 8. To
fit the facts, then, a change of tenses would be recpiii'ed.
For “you did not undei'stand
”
“you do not understand”,
would have to be substituted, and for “he did” “he will”.
Let us now consider the significance of the phrase: “The
words were from Maud but you did not understand Rosy is
the east and so on ”.
First, it forms an antithetical cross-correspondence with
“ Light in West” uttered about two hours earlier in Mrs Pi])er’s
trance. The antitliesis is brought about by means of a mis-
quotation : an ingenious way of throwing emphasis on the
important word met with once before (v. p. (13). The East
and the West w'hich form the subject of this antithesis have,
as we have seen, prominently figured in one of Mrs Verrall’s
and in two of Mi'S Holland’s previous scripts, united in the
fonner and in the latter first contrasted and then identified.
In the second place, “Light in West” occurs in a context
—
i.e. “ Iliad ” and “ If I can reach over the bar ”
—which recalls
the associations—i.e. Homer’s Iliad and Grossing the Bar—
which Myersp said aurb? oupaih? nKUfuov ha<l for him ;
and
between “Rosy is the east” and acrb? ocpurb? aKufJnov likewise
a connection may be traced. “ Rosy is the East ” is, as we have
seen, a misquotation from a poem in Maud where the East
and West are identified :
“ Bhish from West to East,
Bhrsh from East to West,
Till the West is East,
Blush it thro’ the West.
Rosy is the West,”.
LVir.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. *273
The connection between avrog oupavog ukvij-wv and Sections
xciv and xcv of Tennyson’s In Memoriam has already been
explained (v. pp. 118-122). In the last lines of Section xcv
East and West unite tosfether
:
“ And East and West, without a breath,
Mixt their dim lights, like life and death,
To broaden into boundless day.”
The union of East and West in In Memormm and the
identification of them in Maud are probably to be traced to
Tennyson’s familiarity and .sympathy with the Neoplatonic, and
e.specially Plotinian, mystic doctrine of the identification of
opposites. The realisation of this identification was attainable
only in that state of ecstasy in which the individual soul
entered into communion with the Divine; and for the attain-
ment of this state of ecstasy “ a cloudless sky ” was one of
the desirable conditions.
The context of Mrs Holland s script shows a connection, as
does the context of “Light in West”, between the identification
of East and West and one of the associations which IMyersp said
auTOf ovpavog (XKvpwv had for him ;
for “ Do you remember that
exquisite sky when the afterglow made the East as beautiful
and as richly coloured as the West” is preceded by a reference
to Dante’s Paradiso, and Myersp associated Dante with avrog
ovpavog uKvp-wv (v. p. 131-G).
Pteference to p. 261 will show that Mrs Holland’s script of
March 27, like Mrs Verrall’s of April 8, alludes to Tennyson’s
Maud. The former has :
“ Birds in the high Hall Garden ”,
and the latter ;
“ The words w^ere from Maud ”. This is a
plain enough cross-correspondence. But I believe that Mrs
Holland’s script of April 8 also contains an allusion to Tennyson’s
Maiul in the words “ The constellation of Orion ”. Twice and
twice only is Orion mentioned in Maud, and each time in
connection with his setting in the We.st, and also (though
this does not concern us for the moment) with daffodils: —
“ till I could bear it no more.
But arose, and all by myself in my own dark garden ground.
s
274 J. G. Piddington. [part
Walked in a wintry wind by a ghastly glimmer, and found
The shining daffodil dead, and Orion low in his grave.”
And
“ My wood is changed, for it fell at a time of the year
When the face of night is fair on the dewy downs.
And the shining daffodil dies, and the Charioteer
And starry Gemini hang like glorious crowns
Over Orion’s grave low down in the West,
That like a silent lightning under the stars
She seemed to divide in a dream from a band of the blest.”
“The constellation of Orion” would thus answer to Mrs
Verrall’s : “The words were from Maud”; and Orion in
the West would form an antithesis to her “ Rosy is the
East ”.
At first sight it will, I am sure, appear to most of my
readers that I am overstepping the limits of fair and reasonable
interpretation when I put forward the occurrence in one script
of the bald and disconnected phrase “ the constellation of
Orion ” as an instance of supernonnal connection with a quota-
tion from Maud occurring in another script.
But before pronouncing an unfavourable verdict let the
reader take account of the followino- considerations ;
—
O
On March 27 Mrs Holland’s script contained a quotation
from Matid', and on April 8 Mrs Verrall’s script likewise
contained a quotation from Maud. One of the topics of Mrs
Holland’s script of April 8 is beyond question the identification
of East and West; and on the same day a few hours later
Mrs Verrall’s script misquotes a line belonging to a context
in Maud where the East and West are identified. Con-
sequently Mrs Verrall’s and Mrs Holland’s minds were (no
matter how or why) each impressed at this period with the
same two ideas : the identification of East and West and
Tennyson’s Maud. Both these ideas emerged in Mrs Verrall’s
case in the form of a quotation from Maud and in that
form only. !Mrs Holland’s quotation from Maud had nothing
to do with the identification of East and West, but the
passage in her script which did give expression to this
275
LVH.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
idea was immediately preceded by the name of a constellation
which is twice mentioned in Maud in connection with the
West.
Once more. An idea closely allied to that of the identification
of East and West had been expressed in Mrs Verrall’s script of
March 2.5 in the form of a reference to Heracles as a type of
the union of the Eastern and the Western worlds ;
and this
script contains a direct allusion to the Hercides Furens of
Euripides and to the e’/dcoAor, or shade of Heracles. Mrs
Holland’s script of March 27 opened with a quotation from
Maud followed by the words “Not Maud Sylvia”; and then
went on to refer to “ shadow ”. This reference to “ shadow
”
I take, for reasons already explained, to be the counterpart of
'\Irs Verrall’s “shadow” and “shade”, which I connect with
the €lSwKov of Heracles. Mrs Verrall, then, in one scidpt com-
bines references to Heracles as symbolising the union of East
and West, to “ shadow ” and to the Hercides Furens, and
in another script to Maud and the idetitification of East and
West ;
while Mrs Holland in one script combines allusions to
Maud and “shadow”, and, if my interpretation of “ the con-
stellation of Orion ” be admitted, in another script to the
identification of East and West and to Maud. Moreover, for
reasons to be explained later (p. 278), the phrase “ not Maud
Sylvia” pi'obably indicates that Mrs Holland’s script of March 27
is to be combined with her script of April 16, which contains
an unmistakable reference to Browning’s translation of the
Nereides Furens.
“ But still ”, a critic might sa}^ “ if you hadn’t got into your
head this theory about the subjects of cross-correspondences
forming a connected chain of ideas, you never would have
thought of seeing in “ the constellation of Orion ” an allusion
to Tennyson’s Maud ”. To this imaginary but probable criticism
I can reply that before I entertained the very faintest suspicion
uf the existence of any such concatenation of ideas I had
taken “ the constellation of Orion ” to be an allusion to Maud.
I began by putting together the two scripts of April 8 and
Mrs Piper’s “Light in West”, and regarded them as all allud-
ing specially to the union of East and West, and generally
to the identification of opposites ;
and I treated them in the
27(3 [part
./. 0. Picldington.
original draft of this section as constituting a triple cross-
correspondence, of a complex type indeed, but complete in
itself and unconnected witli any other cross-correspondence.
This original draft was read by Mrs Verrall, Miss Johnson and
Mr G. W. Balfour, who, I do not doubt, would, if necessary,
verify my statement that in it I interpreted “ the constellation
of Orion ” as an allusion to Maud.
It is important to establish the point that my interpretation
of “ the constellation of Orion ” as an allusion to the two
“ Orion ” passages in Maud quoted above was derived solely
from a collation of the two scripts of April 8, and was made
and committed to wilting before I originated the theory as
to the inter-relation of several of the cross-correspondences,
because in view of the use I am going to make of these
two “ Orion ” passages it might look as if I had dragged in
this interpretation simply in order to supply two links in
the concatenation of ideas which would otherwise have been
missino-.
O
What, then, are these missing links supplied by the two
“(Jrion” passages in Maud'l Before answering this question,
I will first remind the reader of two of the subjects which,
according to my theory, must have been occupying the mind
of the directing intelligence who was distributing among
the various automatists a series of ideas capable of being con-
solidated into a coherent body.
These two subjects were the Daffodils celebrated by Wordsworth
in the poem “ I wandered lonel}^ as a Cloud” (quoted in the trance
by Myersp on March 20), and Cytherea, the planet of love, “who
seemeth ever burning with fire of love”, and “who was first
beaming from the east on the mount ” of Purgatory, when Dante
had his vision of Leah and Rachel. Now this same dii'ecting
intelligence whose thoughts were, ex hy-pothesi, occupied with
these two subjects had made refei'ences in Mrs Holland’s script
to Maud in her garden (March 27) and to Orion, whose setting
in the West at the time of the year when the daffodAl dies
is twice mentioned in Maud. Now we find these three subjects
in some sense united in that famous passage in Maud where
the lover, waiting for Maud in the high Hall-garden, sees just
before the dawn (as did the lover Dante waiting on the Mount
277
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
of Purgatory to begiu the ascent that is to bring him finally
to Beatrice) the planet of Love :
“ For a breeze of morning moves,
And the planet of Love is on high
Beginning to faint in the light that she loves
On a bed of daffodil sky.”
This passage in Maud by means of the “ planet of Love
”
links up the subjects connected with Purgatorio, Cantos XXVII
and XXVIII, with the subjects connected with Tennyson’s Maud ;
and by means of the word “daffodil” the subjects connected
with Maud with the subjects connected with Wordsworth.
But how is it that so important a link did not appear in
the scripts or in the trance ?
Obviously the directing intelligence may have tried to insert
this link, and have failed to do so ;
or,—and this is the
explanation which recommends itself to me—a gap may have
purposely been left for someone not concerned in the produc-
tion of the phenomena to fill in, so as to make the case as
difficult a one as possible to account for by telepathy between
the automatists.
XI.
If the reader will consult the extracts from the sittings of
April 15, April 17, April 23, April 24, April 29, May 1, May 7,
May 19, and June 2, given in Section XVIII, he will see, fii’st,
that on April 15 “Mountain” was first mentioned as the subject
of a cross-corresponding message intended for Mrs Verrall
;
secondly, that on April 17 the words “O’er mountains, seas
and lakes and rivers ” were uttered in the wakino'-stao-e amono-
O & O
other cross-corresponding messages ;
and thirdly, that on
subsecjuent dates “ Mountain ” was mentioned in close connec-
tion with “ lake
” “ cloud ” and “ lonely I consider that these
facts indicate that though “ Mountain ” was the subject of a
separate cross-correspondence experiment, it was connected in
the mind of the trance-personality both with “ O’er mountains,
seas and lakes and rivei's ” and with “ I wandered lonely as a
Cloud ”.
278 G. Piddington. [part
XII.
On April 16 Mrs Holland’s script contained tlie following:
—
Leopold — Lucus i1)
Mcirgaret
To fly to find Euripides Philemon —
I have already explained in Section XVI (pp. 216-218)
{a) that allusion is made in this extract from Mrs Holland’s
script to Browning’s verse-translation of the Hercules Ftirens
of Euripides; (b) that “Margai'et”, Mrs Verrall’s Christian
name, indicates that a similar allusion is to be looked for in
Mrs Verrall’s scrijrt; and (c) that “Leopold”, the name of
Frederic Myers’s eldest son, is conjoined with this allusion to
Browning’s HeraJdes in the same way that Harold, the name
of his second son, is conjoined with the reference to Euripides
in Mrs Piper’s trance of April 8, and as Silvia (spelt “Sylvia”
in the script), the name of his only daughter, is conjoined with
the quotation from Tennyson’s Maud in Mrs Holland’s scri])t
of March 27. Once and once only was the name Harold
written in Mrs Piper’s script, and once and once only were
the names Leopold and Sylvia written in Mrs Holland’s
script during the period under review. This apparently
irrelevant affixing of the names of Frederic Myers’s three
children to three different pieces of script was, I consider,
done in order to show that the subjects of the three scripts
formed part of one family of ideas, and were meant to be
pieced together ; a clue that was badly needed since between
the quotation from Maud and the two allusions to Euripides
there most certainly did not exist any obvious connection.
XIII.
The sitting of April 29 was attended by Mrs Verrall. In
the course of it Myersp said to Mrs Verrall: “I am trying to
give you two special words, and you did get the first letter
of one of them ”
;
and added that this first letter was D.
These “special words” were undoubtedly “Dwarf” and
“Giant” (v. Section VlII. pp. 87-94).
279
lvil] a Series of ConcordoMt Automatisms.
Later in the sitting Mrs Verrall, who, of course, knew nothing
of the “Giant and Dwarf” experiment, and who had the day
before noted in her diary (v. p. 264) that her scripts of
April 3 and 6 probably alluded to Dante’s Paradiso and
P'Urgatorio respectively, said that she knew that the word
beginning with D was “ Dante Myersp said that this was
not the word of which he was thinking ;
and then later on
added that, though “ Dante ” was not the word beginning wdth
a D of which he was thinking-, he had given the name
Dante ” to Mrs Verrall, and had given it in connection with
his answer to auTO? oupavo? aKvp-wv.^ Almost immediately
afterwards he said :
“ I wrote Lonely Wandering Cloud.
Daffodils
The utterances in the waking-stage of this same sitting
opened as follows :
—
All right ;
I’m glad. Inferno (the next words were not
caught, but sounded like) Smiles and verso. Myers.
Oh ! beautiful [A Christian name] The unknown
deity. Passed out of their bodies and gone—passed
out of their bodies and gone—passed out of their
bodies and gone—every peak and point—star—Abt
—
I can’t hear. Dante’s Inferno. What else matters 1
What else matters'? Subliminal. Nearer mansions.
She’ll get it ;
I’m not worried. (Touches right wrist)
Aches. Hallo, Mr Hodgson, how did you get
here? Lost your hat? I don’t know. I’m glad.
I’m glad you are—(Rubs wrist) Aches, ailrbs I
have answered. There’s no Inferno here. I want to
say more. I wandered lonely as a cloud. Myers.
Hallam—Arthur Hallam.
Passed out of tlieir bodies—Abt belongs to the Horace Ode
Episode (v. pp. 402-7).
The ttnknoivn deity suggests “ The Unknown God ” whose
altar St. Paul saw in Athens, (Acts xvii, 2.3). St. Paul had
been mentioned in the course of the sitting and apparently
connected with the answer to Mrs Verrall’s Greek words.
^At least that is how 1 interpret the statements of Myersp. But as they
are not free from ambiguity the reader should refer to pp. 157-165, where
they are discussed in detail.
280 J. G. Piddhigton. [part
avTo? evidently means avT09 ovpcwog uku/xcoi'. Arthur Hcdlaon
was one of the associations with cu
’
to? ovpapog aKuncov given
by Myersp on March 6 and 13.
The intention of these utterances was, I take it, to show
that what may be called the ‘
Dante,’ the ‘
Wordsworth ’
and
the avTog ovpapo? arupon topics were all to be linked
together; the Inferno being singled out for s])ecial mention
in order to make a link with Geryon.
I am only too acutely conscious of the prolixity and want
of lucidity which dishgure the foregoing account of this com-
plicated group of phenomena. The fault, I do not doubt, is
largely mine, but some of the circumlocution is due to the
involved nature of the facts themselves, and some to the lack
of expedients, such as a recognised technical phraseology and
formulae for avoiding tedious and awkward periphrases—
a
lack which will have to be remedied if we continue to meet
with similar phenomena. I hope, however, that the accom-
panying diagram and tables will help to make clear points
which the text may have left obscure. But a cautious use
must be made of them, for no tabular statement can contain
those nuances and qualifications, without which accounts of
psychological phenomena must be misleading. Thus, the
various inter-connected subjects are arranged in the diagram
in a purely arbitrary order, and might be re-arranged in half
a dozen different wa}’s; and in Tables I and III it has
been specially difficult to decide which subjects to class as
‘
implicit ’
and which as ‘
explicit ’.
The scheme of the diagram is as follows :
—
The headings of the circles, printed in red ink, indicate the
parent topics from which subordinate topics, printed in black
ink, have been derived. One of these subordinate topics in
its turn becomes, as represented in the next circle, the parent
of a new topic, and so on. At certain points, shown by the
connective arrow-heads, the same topic has been derived
through two different parents: e.g. Geryon through the
Inferno and Purgatorio in the one case, and through Hercules
in the other.
"O'er
iiioumains.
lakes
A-
riv.-rs
Wordsworth
Country
i
-^Cv
Table I. —showing how and on what Dates the vakious Topics were distributed among the Automatists.
Exp. = Explicit in the Script or Trance-Speech of; Dip. = Implicit in the Script or Trance-Speech of.
Mrs. Piter. Mbs. Verrace. Mrs. Holland.
Miss Merrikield
and Miss Verrall.
Exp. Imp. Exp. Imp. Exp. 1
Imp. Exp. Imp.
Hercules Fiirens of Euripides. Mch. 4 & 25 Apiil 16
Euripides. April 8 Mch. 4 & 25 April 16
Browning’s Herakles. Apiil 16
Umbrae—shadow— shades—ci'SwAor. Mch. 25
Shadow—Tenebrae. Maich 27
Spirit. April 8 Mch. 25
Geryon (monster slai n by Heracles : referred to in March 10
Hercfides Furens).
Geryon (monster referred to in Dante’s Infer7io xvii April 8 Mch. 10
and xviii and Purgatorio xxvii).
Hercules as type of the union of East and West. March 25
Crossing of the Hellespont. March 25 A]iril 8
East. April 8
West. April 8 April 8
East and West. March 25 April 8 Mch. 13 & Apr. 8
Identification of East and West. April 8 April 8
Identification of Opposites. April 8
Maud. April 8 March 27
Orion. April 8
Aphrodite. April 8
Cytherea (Goddess) and Cytherea (Planet). April 8 April 8
River of Lethe and Mount of Purgatory. April 6 Apiil 8
Paradiso. April .3 April 8
Purgatorio. April 8
Inferno. April 29 Mch. 10
Daffodils (Tennyson).
Daffodils (Wordsworth). April 17 Mch. 20 1
Wordsworth Country. Mch. 20 April 6
Silvia (conjoined with Maud). March 27
Leopold (conjoined with Browning’s Herakles). April 16
Harold (conjoined with Euripides). April 8
/'Crossing the Bar. April 8
Arthur Hallam. April 29
avTOs oi'pavos a.KV/Jui>v •
Iliad —Myers. April 8
Dante’s Inferno. April 29
TABLE II. Showing the Chronological Order in which the various Interconnected Topics emerged.
March 4, 1901
March 10, .,
March 11, „
March 13, ,,
March 20, ,,
March 25, ,,
March 27, ,,
April 3, „
April 6, „
April 8, „
April 15, ,,
April 16, ,,
April 17, „
April 29, „
Hercules furens of Euripides. Heracles bound to the pillar. Ask elsewhere for the ]
Bound Hercules. I
Geryon. {Table I'iHing).
Presences on the eternal hills. The Presence that is in the lonelp hills.
“One star in the crimson West And tlie East is cold and grey \
And the weary Earth shall turn to her rest At the end of the winter’s Day.” I
“I wandered lonely as a Cloud That floats on high o’er dale and hill.” (Wordsworth), \
and quotation from Myers’s Harold at two years old. J
Claviger—the bearer of the Club and Key. Clavem gerens trans Pontem trans Helles-
pontem— East and West. The Eastern sign of the Club. The Hercules story
comes in there and the clue is in the Euripides play. Bound to the pillar.
Sebastian. It is the same stoiy of the archer and the binding to the pillar. Let
Piddington know when you get a message about shadow. Umbrae. The shadow
of a shade. a-Kids eiSwAor.
“Birds in the high hall-garden.” Not Maud. Sylvia. Tenebrae. Via obscura vita \
lucet. Light and Shadow. Shadow and Light. I
“ Lost Paradise Regained,” and a drawing of an Angel.
Script interpreted by Mrs Verrall as representing River of Lethe and Mount of Purgatory. \
,,
J. G. P. „ ,,
“O’er mountains, seas and lakes & rivers.” I
Is the Paradiso mental relaxation 1 . . . The Constellation of Orion. East as beautiful as f
West. Martha and Mary. Leah and Rachel. I
Spirit and Angel. To the Stars. Euripides. I meant to say Harold. Aphrodite.
Mr Myers and . . . Iliad. Light in West. If I can reach over the bar I’ll
repeat this later (f). Tout ensemble.
The words were from Maud. Rosy is the East and so on.
Mountain.
Leopold. Lucas. Margaret. To fly to find Euripides. Philemon, (i.e. Browning’s
Heraldes.)
O’er mountains, seas and lakes and rivers. Daffodils.
auTos (ouparos aKVjMDv), Dante’s Inferno, I wandered lonely as a cloud, Myers and Arthur
Hallam, all mentioned in Waking-Stage. }
Mrs Verrall.
Miss Verrall and Miss Merri field.
Mrs Verrall.
Mrs Holland.
Mrs Piper.
Mrs Verrall.
Mrs Holland.
Mrs Verrall.
Mrs Verrall.
Mrs Holland.
Mrs Piper.
Mrs Verrall.
Mrs Piper.
Mrs Holland.
Mrs Piper.
Mrs Piper.
TABLE Iir. —Showing which of the vaihous 'I'opics were EITHER EXPLICITLY OR IMPLICITLY CONTAINED, AND WHICH
CONTAINED IN THE SCRIPT OR TrANCE SpEECH OF THE SEVERAL AuTOMATISTS.
WERE NOT
I
Explicit in Mrs Piper’s trance-script or trance-speech.
\ Implicit
'
Explicit in Mrs VerraH’s script.
Implicit in ,, ,,
Explicit in Mrs Holland’s script.
Implicit ,, ,, ,,
V
j
Explicit in Table-tilting of Miss Merrifield and Miss H. Verrall.
I
Implicit „ „ „ „ „
Euripides, Spirit, Angel, West, Ai)hrodite, Inferno, Daffodils, Harold.
Wordsworth Country; Cytherea.
Hercules Fureus] Euripides; Umbrae, Shadows, Shades, etSwAoe
Angel; Hercules as type of East and \Test ;
Crossing of the
Hellespont; East; East and West; j\Imd.
East and West; Identification of East and West; River of Lethe
and Mount of Purgatory; Paradiso Wordsworth Country.
Euripides ;
Shadow, Tenebrae ;
East and West ;
Identification of
East and West; Identification of Opposites; Maud; Orion;
Paradiso ]
Silvia; Leopold.
Hercules Furens Browning’s Herakles Cytherea; River of Lethe and
Mount of Purgatory; Purgatorio , Crossing of the Hellespont;
Angel.
Geryon (Dante’s).
Geryon (Heracles’).
Topics unexpressed in Mrs Piper’s trance-script or trance-speech.
Mrs Verrall’s script.
Mrs Holland’s script.
Miss Merrifield A Miss Verrall’s Table-tilting.
Hercules Furens , Browning’s //eruUes ;
Umbrae &c ;
Shadow; Geryon;
Hercules as type of East and West; East; East and West;
Identification of East and West ;
Identification of Opposites
Maud-, Orion; River of Lethe and Mount of Purgatory; Paradiso-,
Silvia, Leopold ;
Crossing of Hellespont.
Browning’s Herakles ;
Tenebrae ;
Geryon ;
Identification of Opposites;
Orion ;
Aphrodite ;
Cytlieiea ;
Purgatorio, Inferno ;
Daffodils ;
Silvia, Leopold, Harold.
etSwAor, Spirit ;
Hercules as type of East and MTst ;
Aphrodite ;
Inferno-, Daffodils; Wordsworth Country; Harold.
All except Geryon.
‘
• 'ffr-
-f\'
’
'''<.
.^T/i'i^.i’,: -
•
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisras. 281
On the top left hand side of the diagrani, and enclosed
within a circle larger than the rest, is the progenitor of the
whole family of topics, auTo? ovpavo<s aKUfj.u>v, of which the
immediate offspring are Plotinus, Tennyson, C'rossing the Bar,
Arthur Hallam, In Memoriam xcv aTul Dante. Of these
offspring, In Memoriam xcv becomes the head of the nest
family circle, and produces the Union of East and West;
which, in direction A, becomes the parent of the Identification
of Opposites. Two derivatives, or specific instances, of the
Identification of Opposites are Martha and Mary, and Leah
and Ptachel ;
and the latter pair leads on to Dante’s Purgatorio,
and so on.
Meanwhile, in directions B and C, two other to[)ics have
arisen from the Union of East and West, viz. :
—
(B) Maud, leading on to the Planet of Love; and
(C) Hercules leading on to (1) the crossing of the Hellespont,
which, as shown in another circle, has also been derived through
the Purgatorio-, and (2) to various other topics associated
with Hercules as shown in contiguous circles.
XX.
“AZURE” AND “HORIZON”.
The reader should study this section in connection with
the uvTO<i ovpai'o? ukv/ulow incident (pp. 107-172); and he
will obtain a clearer compreliension of it if as well he first
acquaint himself with the section entitled “ The Latin Message
”
(pp. 312-41G).
Extract from record of sitting ivith Mrs Piper held on
Ap)ril 10, 1907.
(Present: Mrs Sidgwick and Miss Newton, the latter merely
awaiting a signal to summon tlie sitter.)
•282 [part
J. G. Piddingtoii.
(Rector communicating) Hodgson wishes to know if those
messages have got through yet Forget me not
E. .M 8. I will enquire. When did he send “forget-me-not”?
Long ago. [“ Forget-me-nots” was first announced as a cross-
correspondence message to be given to Mrs Verrall on
Jan. 23, 1907.]
has horizon appeared 1
Myers said a cloudless sky beyond the horizon
E. M. 8. Oh yes, that has appeared ;
that is good.
Myers gave that
E. M. 8. Quite right.
and was anxious to know if you U.D.
E. M. S. Yes, we understand quite well. Has he any more to say
about it?
That will come out here later when
ho has a better opportunity
but he simply told me to tell you.
(Pause)
E. M. 8. Yes, I understand.
that he gave it and when he clears
the message he will exidain it.
Extract from I'ccord of sitting -with Mrs Fipcr held on
Aprd 15, 1907.
(Present: Mrs Sidgwick and Miss Newton)
E. AE 8. (referring to the statements contained in the foregoing
extract) Will you ask Mr Myers why he chose that
sentence about horizon ?
(Rector communicating) Yes I will and give answer as soon
as possible.
E. M. S. Thank you,
•283
LVii.] ^-1 Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Mr Myers sends love and says that message [i.e. “ the Latin
Message ”] conveyed a several good things to his mind
and that was one of them.
E. M. S. What is the word after “ that message ” ?
(Myers communicating) Gooil morning Mrs Sidgwick I am
glad to see you once more.
E. M. S. Good morning, Mr Myers.
Piddington’s message conveyeil much to my mind which
I considered good material to work on. . . .
therefore all this came to mind in consequence.
E. M. S. I see.
I believe you U.D. nearly as well as I do
E. M. S. Yes, I think I do.
therefore I will just say it was because of this message that
it was brought to my mind and which I tried to bring
out there with other lines (1)
Is it clear.
E. M. S. It is clear, but I should like to know why “horizon” came
as distinct from “hope and star”.
Because it was that special passage which was suggested
from his message to my mind.
E. M. S. I see.
and I gave it there last time [i.e. April 10] as as in part
answer to Mr P’s enquiry.
E. M. S, “ Mr. P’s enquiry ” 1
Yes about the part which impressed me most
Extract from record of sitting luith Mrs Piper held on
April 17, 1907.
(Present; Mrs Sidgwick alone.)
(Myers communicating) Good morning Mrs Sidgwick I am
very glad to meet you again I am Myers.
284 [part
J. G. Piddington.
E. M. S. Good morning, Mr Myers.
I thought you would U.D. if I said
Azure
and follow if that had appeared through Mrs Y.
(E. M. S. fails to read “ Azure ”)
Auzure [sic]
E. M. S. “ Augur ” 1
a it means Blue
E, xM. S. Oh !
“ Azure ”,
and I also said not precisely these words but very nearly
beyond
a cloudless sky beyond the hoi'izon.
(E. M. S. reads over) yes.
regarding the message.
it came out I believe with a star being drawn also horizon
horizon yes which comes from the poem
E. M. S. Browning’s poem you mean ?
Yes I wrote m}''self a similar line
which I gave her also,
did it not all appear.
E. M. S. I have not seen it, but I will look carefully again.
Do because this I think is important.
A little later on Myensp tried to give some words of the
Latin Message (v. pp. 367-8), but they were incorrectly spelt,
and were not in consequence recognised by Mrs Sidgwick at
the time. He then apparentl}" alluded to Browning’s poem
La Saisiaz. From this point the record runs as follows:
—
E. M. S. I think he means La Saisiaz. ^Vhy is he telling me about
La Saisiaz ?
Yes and dont you remember what I said about it
E. M. S. Through this light ?
Yes. I said Hope Star
LVII.] 285
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
E. M. S. I see. I did not know which poem that was. [E. M. S.
notes : “I don’t quite know what I meant by this remark,
but I intended to draw something about the ‘
hope and
star ’
poem ”. See, however, note by E. M. S. on p. 368.]
Which poem that was ?
the passage I wished (?) concerned (?)
these words
three words horizon was one of them ami Horizon was the
most important
K. M. S. I see. I will look at the poem and then I shall under-
stand.
Yes please do. then I shall feel that it has in part reached
you.
Extract from record of tvords spoken dAiring the ivaking-
stape of the trance of April 23, 1907.
Ylay (?) Verrall.
Mary . . .
Mars (?) . .
I am glad I heard you.
Better now. — — — —
Hullo
On the horizon (?)
I’m right about it.
Extract from record of sittiiuj with Mrs Piper held on April
24, 1907.
(Present: Mrs Sidgwick alone.)
(Hodgson communicating) Do you remember my statement
about Horizon
E. M. S. She [i.e. Mrs Verrall] has written something about Horizon.
Did that not come out later after we wrote a few lines of
Brownings poem,
in which we mentioned stars.
28G [part
J. G. Piddington.
p]. M. S. I do not think the lines of Browning’s poem came.
I figured
Xo I say did she not mention Horizon, as Myers gave it
her to her in reply to the message
a long line seemed to appear seemed on her paper
E. M. S. I don’t think there was a long line, but I will look again.
listen
E. M. S. Oh ! that kind of line.
Yes and then Myers made her drawer [sic] a star.
E. M. S. Yes, she drew a star. [I thought so at the moment, but am
not sure it was not Miss Helen Verrall. Note hy E. M. S.
Miss Verrall twice drew a star; Mrs Verrall never did.
E'ote hy J. G. P.]
and the word Horizon was repeatedly given her until it came
out on her pajier.
E. M. S. Yes, “horizon” came certainly clearly.
Later on Myei'Sp, responding to a request made at a former
sitting by Mrs Sidgwick, tries to say to what poem of Browning’s
the scri[)t of Mrs Verrall described in the Piper trance as “ Hope
Star and Browning ” was intended to refer.
E. M S. What was the poem about ?
Yol is right.
E. M. S. You have got something like the name of a poem. It is
not quite right, but if you tell me what is in the poem I
think I shall understand.
Hope Star Horizon
Horizon comes elsewhere.
Yes do not get confused dear Mrs Sidgwick.
p]. M. S I will not get confused.
287
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Arid then at the close of tlie sitting comes this further
reference to “ Azure ” ;
—
(Myers communicating) We are not going to remain today
but I have a few words for you to look up and a few for
you to watch out for.
one is Vaunt one is transcendentalism,
and another is Azure yes.
E. M. S. There was something in Mrs Yerrall’s writing about blue
sea.
Yes it Is preciseW what I had in my mind.
E. M. S. I am glad of that.
I said Azure and explained to you that it meant Blue.
E. M. S. Yes, you did.
yes. and the word Sky ought to have come out at the
same time,
yes will you look
look out for it ?
E. M, S. I will.
Sea and Sk_y Blue
E. M. S. I think there was somethino' about skv.
O *.
Yes I repeated it over and over so she could not mistake
it.
please look out for itl
E. iSJ.S. I will.
Extract from record of sitting until Mrs Piiicr held on Aimil
29, 1907.
(Present: Mrs Verrall and Miss Johnson.)
(Myers communicating.) I wish to go back to St. Paul.
[For an explanation of “St Paul” v. pp. 161-2.]
my reference to azure a blue sea
azure a z z Z Z z
288 ./. G. Piddington. [part
Mrs V. I can’t read this. “ a ” and then “ g
” is it ] “ My reference
to”—I can’t make out that sign: capital L?
( I in pe rator commun i cati n g)
help her + ask the lady present to help.
(Miss Johnson comes to the table and reads “azure”)
azure +
(Miss Johnson reads “blue sea”.)
a blue sea
(Mrs V. reads as above; and the hands then thumps vigorously
as a sign of assent.)
It is now U.D.
The subjects referred to in the foregoing extracts are full
of obscurities and ambiguities, but certain points are clear and
definite: viz. (1) that on April 10 Rector asked “Has Horizon
appeared ? ”, the context, however, leaving it doubtful whether
the word was supposed to have ajipeared in Mrs Verrall’s or
in Mrs Piper’s scrijit; (2) that on April 15 Myersp stated that
he had given “Azure”, meaning “blue”, to Mrs Verrall, and
that he had also given her some words very nearly resembling
“ a cloudless sky beyond the horizon ”
; (3) that on April 24
Myersij added that “ sky ” ought to have appeared in Mrs
Verrall’s script at the same time as “Azure”; and (4) that after
Ml'S Sidgwick had said that something about blue sea had been
written by Mrs Verrall she was told to look out for “ Sea and
Sky blue ”.
Let us now compare with these statements made in Mrs
Piper’s trance Mrs Verrall’s script of April 15, 1907 :
—
Xiemand als ich ich selber hab
es g es a g t [no one but me, I myself have said it.]
Cunctando restituit rem. [by delaying he restoi’ed fortune.]
go slowly leniter gradu [with slow step]
something about “ His grave is in the rolling deep—not quite
that —but a wanderer over seas is the idea.
Gulfs in the sunny south.
I see so plainly the rolling of a southern sea,
blue and sparkling, as the ship goes onward to the
lvil] •289
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
south, ever to the soutli. That is all no
land in sight, onl}^ the blue sea sparkling in the
sun to the horizon’s edge—no ship in sight.
We will try to give the message to them. It has come
first to you. a rolling southern sea—a southern sunny sea.
The message is for Mrs F. |i.e. Mrs Forbes] but she is not
to be told it for some days. I will give it elsewhere.
Do not let her know, you must wait and have patience.
She is not to hear of this. I want to get it repeated.
Be careful about this
I will try again this week—it is easier now
and now write 2
It will be seen that the word “horizon” occurs here and in
close connection with “ blue ”. It is true that the emphasis is
on the bluene.ss of the sea, but the language inevitably suggests
a blue sky as well.
This is the only occasion on which the word “ horizon
”
appeared in Mrs Verrall’s script during the period under
review.
The first .signature is intended for “Myers”, the second, S,
for “ Sidgwick ”. It should be noted that the scribe says (1)
that the message has come first to Mrs Yerrall ; (2) that it
is for Mrs Forbes; (3) that he will give it elsewhere; and
(d) that he will try to give it to “ them ”.
I have little doubt that by “them” is meant the people
in charge of Mrs Piper’s sittings. I think that “ elsewhere
”
is not equivalent either to “them” or to Mrs Forbes; and that
the scribe meant that he would give the same message to
Mrs Piper, to Mrs Forbes and to one other unnamed automatist.
If this interpretation is right “elsewhei'e” could practically
only mean either Miss Helen Verrall or Mrs Holland. There
is no trace of the message in Mrs Forbes’s script; and at this
T
290 J. G. Piddington. [part
time Miss Verrall was not doiiio’ auv automatic writiuo-. But
in Ml'S Holland’s script of Api'il 24, 1907 one phrase contains
the word “ horizon ”, and two other phi-ases introduce the word
“ sky I shall quote these three phrases only, as the}" are
quite unconnected with tlie other subjects mentioned in the
same piece of writing.
The opening phrase of the script is:
One single line of white flame far on the horizon
—
In the middle comes :
Clear darkness in spite of a luminous sky.
And the last paragraiih but one is
:
Mellow moons and tropic skies
—
a reminiscence apparently of Tennyson’s :
“ Mellow moons and happy skies,
Breadths of trojiic shade.”
This script was written at 10.20 ]).m. Calcutta time
(i.e. 4.20 p.m. Greenwich time), about four hours after
Hodgsonp had said “did she [Mi's Verrall] not mention
Horizon, as Myers gave it to her in rejd}^ to the message a
long line seemed to appear seemed on her paper ”
;
and after
Myersp had said “and the word sky ought to have come out
at the same time ”
;
one day' after “ on the horizon ” was
uttered in the waking-stage of the trance of April 23 ;
and
nine day's after Mrs Verrall had written her script of
April 15, which contained the words: “I w-ill give it else-
w here ”.
I am not inclined to attach much weight to the appearance
in Mrs Holland’s script of “luminous sky” or “tropic skies”.
Still I must admit that the word “sky” is of rare occurrence
in Mrs Holland’s script during the period covered by- the
experiments with Mrs Pij)er in England. It is found on three
other occasions only'; on March 18, in the phrase: “The
m emory of it is like a great black shadow that blots out
half the sky'”; and on Apiril 1, in a phrase which I will
quote and discuss prresently" ;
and on April 8, in a context
a 1 ready quoted (v. p. 265).
291
Lvii.] Series of Concordant Automatisms.
The only time that the word is written twice in the same
sciipt is on April 24.
“ Horizon ” occurs here and here only in Mrs Holland’s
script dining’ the period under review, that is on Wednesday
f
April 24 ;
nine days after the only occurrence of the word in
Mrs Verrall’s script, which contained the ]ihrase “ I will give
it elsewhere
The opening words of the following paragraph of Mrs
Holland’s script of April 1 do correspond very closely indeed
with “a cloudless sky beyond the horizon” and “azure—it
means blue ” :
—
The sk}’ is fiercely blue with not a single cloud in
sight— The birds are sheltering from the noonday heat.
In England this will be a comparatively mild month
—
but May will be cruelly cold with frequent snow flurries
and the effect on the fruit trees will be disastrous
—
If this is taken to represent “azure” and “a cloudless sky
beyond the horizon ” then “the message did not come first” to
Mrs Verrall ;
and the forecast of what the weather was to be
in England during April and l\Iay must be regarded as a mere
excrescence. \Yeather forecasts of the kind and references to
weather conditions are not infrequent in Mrs Holland’s script;
but whether they are inspired by the scribe or owe their
emergence to interest in things meteorological felt by Mrs
Holland it is impossible to decide ;
but with some of them at
least Myersn is connected, (v. Proc. Part LY. pp. 291-2, 295.)
It is possible that the phrase “the sk}^ is fiercely blue with
not a single cloud in sight” may be a reflection not of the
cross-correspondence message announced in the trance of
April 17, but of the paraphrase of the words auro? ovpuvo^
uKviJ-oDv, “cloudless sky beyond the horizon”, given in the trance
of March 6 by Myersp ;
but the occurrence of the \vord “ blue
”
in it suggests rather that it I’epresents not the original
paraphrase of anrb? ovpavo^ aKvpwv, but the first emergence of
the cross-correspondence message which was formed out of it
bv tacking on the words “azure” and “blue”.
^ For the significance of this day of the week see pp. ‘206 and 2‘25, and
Proc. Part LV. pp. ‘251 et seq.
•292 •/. G. Piddvngton. [part
Now as regards the ambiguities. I cannot make up my
mind whether to regard “ has Horizon appeared ? Myers said
a cloud]e.ss .sky beyond the horizon” as the first announce-
ment of “Horizon” as the subject of a cross-correspondence
experiment, or as a way of ascertaining whether the ]mra-
phrase of avrog ovpupo? ukv/uloop given in the trance of March 6
had been correctly registered through Mrs Pipei', and whether
the point of it had been grasped by the experimenters.
Mrs Sidgwick naturally took the words in the second
sense ;
and one would not have thought of looking for any
other significance in them had it not been for the fact that
the extracts from the sittings of A]nil 17, 24 and 29 quoted
above make it pei fectly clear that the word “ Horizon ” formed
part of a cross-correspondence message. There can be no
doubt that the choice of “Horizon” and “azure” as subjects
for a cross-corresponding message was suggested by atlrb?
oupavog aKupow and by the paraphrase of these words given
in the trance of March 6. The choice may seem an unwise
one, but 1 may remark that I had myself long before chosen
“Pearls before swine” as a message for transmission by the
Piper controls to Mrs Verrall, although these words had been
twice previously given or alluded to in Mrs Verrall’s script
;
and I did this purposely, as I thought it would be interesting
if Mrs Verrall’s script should lepeat the words a third time
after her normal consciousness had been on two previous
occasions preoccupied with them. I am sufficiently convinced
of the intellio’ence, if not of the identities, of the trance-
personalities who call themselves Myers and Hodgson, to
believe that some such idea may have prompted their choice
of “ Horizon ” for the purpose of a similar experiment.
On April 17 Myersp said he believed that “ Azure ”, meaning
blue, “came out with a star being di-awn also horizon which
comes from the poem ”. No star a|)|)eared in Mrs Verrall’s
scrii)t of April 15 ;
but if the reader will turn to p. 114 he
will see that in her script of February 26, the only script
of Mrs Verrall’s which contains the words aero? oeparo?
uKvp.wi>, occurs also the phrase :
“ I think I have got some
words from the poem written down—if not stars and satellites
another phrase will do as well ”. When MyerSp spoke ol a
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 293
star being drawn and of “horizon” coming from the poem,
Mrs Sidgwick thinking he was referring to the star of
“Hope, Star and Browning” asked if by the poem lie meant
Biowning’s poem. Myersp acquiesced, but I cannot help
thinking that the acquiescence was of a kind commonly
displajmd by trance-|)ersonalities, who unfortunately are often
only too ready to accept any suggestion that mav be
offered. I believe that the trance-personalities, though they
did intend to connect “ Hope, Star and Bi'owning ” with
“ Horizon ” in a general wajq did not mean that “ Horizon
”
formed part of the particular message given to Mrs Verrall
which they always de.scribed as “ Hope, Star and Browning ”
;
and that in spite of some confusion and ambiguit}^ they finally
succeeded more or less clearly in retracting the statement
here made. I will later on explain how I arrive at this
conclusion; but meanwhile let us accept the statement that
there was some connection between “star”, “horizon” and a
poem of Browning’s; and see if there is anything which can
he said to represent this combination of ideas in Mrs Verrall’,
s
sci'ipt.
In her script of February 26, in addition to cu/to? oupo.vo<i
aKufxwv, “ stars and satellites ” and a quotation from Grossimj
the Bar, come the words :
“ The last poems of Tennyson and
Browning should be compared”. There are, therefore, combined
in this script references to aaro? oaparo? dKVfxm>, which answers
to “ Horizon ” “ a cloudless sky beyond the horizon ”
;
to
“ stars and satellites ”, which answers to “ star ”
;
and a
mention of the last poems of Browning, which answers to
“ Browning’s poem ”. The coincidences are there ;
and though
I do not claim them as supernormally produced, still thev
should not be overlooked.
Immediately after Myersp on April 17 had said that by
“the poem” he meant Browning’s poem he added spon-
taneously: “I wrote myself a similar line which I gave her
[i.e. Mrs Verrall] also”. This may be intended for an allusion
to Myers’s poem on Tennyson, the motto of which is aura?
ovpav'o's uKupoov, and which contains a phrase, “ These wavele.ss
heights of evening”, obviously reminiscent of the words of
Plotinus. It also contains the words “0 star and planet”.
[part
29-i G. Piddington.
Now “stars and satellites” in Mrs Verrall’s script of February
26 was a phi-ase which she knew norinally had been men-
tioned in a Piper sitting, that of January 30, and she had
noted in her diary on February 2, 1907 that it had reminded
her of “0 star and ])lanet” in Myers’s poem on Tennyson.
This interpretation would make another coincidence of a sort
between what was s;dd by MyerSp at the sitting of April 17
and Mrs Verrall’s script of February 26. Uf course this is
all exceedingly confused and ambiguous and hypothetical ;
yet
I feel that it is rather difficult to set down this stidngf of
coincidences to chance alone. Some may think it altogether
too fanciful even tentatively to interpret “ I wrote myself
a similar line ” as a reference to Myers’s poem on Tennyson.
The interpretation is certainly unverihable, but I think one
may justifiably conjecture that a trance-personality, who showed
he knew as much about uvto? ovpuvog aKufjLwu as MyeiSp did,
possessed a little more knowledge on the subject than he
succeeded in explicitly displaying.
I said above that my view is that the trance-personalities
did not intend to state that “ Horizon ” formed part of the
message written by Mrs Verrall on January 28 which is
always described by the Piper trance-personalities as “ Hope,
Star and Browning ”.
M^hat I do think that they may have meant to say was that
when they gave Mrs Verrall “Horizon” and “Azure” they
gave at the same time a star. It was the question asked
by Mrs Sidgwick on April 17—“ Browning’s poem you
mean?”—which, in my view, introduced the subsequent
confusion with “ Hope, Star and Browning ”. The statements
made by Myersp on April 15 in reply to Mrs Sidg wick’s
question “ why he chose that sentence about horizon,” I take
to mean one or both of two things : (1) that the Latin
Message (v. pp. 312-14) had suggested to him the plan of
answering the question about uvto? ovpavo^ aKupwv by means
of concordant messages given to Mrs Verrall and Mrs Piper;
(2) that the Latin Message had suggested to him the plan
of using the phrase “ Cloudless sky beyond the horizon ” not
only as a paraphrase of avTO? ovpavo<; uKup-wv but also as a
cross-correspondence message.
lvil] 295
^•1 Sei'ies of Concordant Automatisms.
I regal’d the phrase in the sitting of April 24; “Horizon
comes elsewhere. Do not get confused, dear Mrs Sidgwick ” :
as an attempt on the part of the trance-personalities to
explain that a mistake had been made in conveying the
impression that “ Horizon ” formed a part of the “ Hope, Star
and Browning” cross-correspondence. They made Mrs Sidgwick
wholly responsible for the confusion ;
apparently unmindful of
the fact that, even if Mrs Sidgwick may have inadvertently
started it, they themselves not only had hitherto done
nothing to remove it, but had on the contrary accentuated it.
In conclusion, I would advise the reader who has no taste
for these subtleties and entanglements to dismiss them from
his mind, and to pay attention only to the comparatively
straightforward case of cross-correspondence exemplified in the
quotations from Mrs Piper’s trance of April 17, from Mrs
Verrall’s script of April 15, and fi'om Mrs Holland’s script
of April 24.
XXL
“ THANATOS.”
Extract from rccordj of icords spoken in the waking-stage of
Mrs Pipers trance of April 17, 1907.
(Present: Mrs. Sidgwick and Miss Newton)
Very sorry right (?) —Eector.
Pake very slow, [“speak very slow” was meant.]
Hallo. I’m glad to see you. What is it ?
— — — passes — — —
Hallo. Starch (?)
I do not know. Sanatos. Look — S. T.
Tanatos(?) I am saying it thank you Mr —
Certain — My faithful wife — — —
O’er mountains seas and lakes and rivers.
Means nothing.
O
296 J. G. Piddington. [part
To these My faithful wife.
God be with you.
S — — — — [inaudible, but afterwards realised to be the
same sentence as Mrs Piper several times repeated later
with “Tyrannus” in it.]
(Points, smiling happily.)
Rector, Myers, what are they talking about?
What’s six .... Tyrannus.
Mr Hodgson says there are no tyrants over here.
For the use of such phrases as “I am saying” to indicate
the announcement of a cross-corres|)Oudence message v. pp. 176-7
and the extract from the record of May 7, quoted below.
Against the word “ Tanatos ” Mrs Sidgwick inserted a
note in the type- written cop}^ of the record to this effect:
“ Thanatos is meant ])robably.”
Extract from record of vjords spolc.en in the vxdcing -stage of
Mrs Pipers trance of April 23, 1907.
(Present: Mrs Sidgwick and “Mrs Forbes”.)
That’s Mr Hodgson — —
Yes, I’ll give it — —
Addio
Davis (?)
— — — is all right
May I — —
Oh ! Mr Myers.
May — — — I’ll be back again. — — —
Addio
Book
Thanatos —
Getting dark. I don’t like it. I don’t want to come here.
Extract from record of voords spoken in the vxddwj-stage of
Mrs Pipers trance of April 30, 1907 :
—
(Present: Miss Alice Johnson and Mrs Verrall.)
Glad there’s someone. Thanatos. Thanatos. [I wrote down
the word “ Thanatos ”, recognising it as a Greek word
but not knowing its meaning, before Mrs Verrall made
any remark. After I had written it Mrs Verrall repeated
it. Note hy Miss Johnson.']
Glad I’m — Thanatos.
A Series of Concordant Automatisras, 297
LVII.]
Ill the waking-stage of the sitting of May 7, 1907, at which
Mrs Sidgwick and Miss Johnson were present, the words: I
want to say — — Thanatos ” were spoken. They occurred
in t’ne middle of a series of sentences not explicitly a,ttributed
to Myersp, but indubitably to be attributed to him. In the
record a cpiery was put against “Thanatos” as the word
w'as not quite certain.
“Thanatos” is a Greek word meaning “Death”.
The word, or an approximation to it, was given four times
in all, each time in a disconnected way, and each time in the
middle of words or phrases which without any hesitation may
be attributed to Myersp or Hodgsoup.
It was twice given quite clearly, namely on April 23 and 30,
the recorder being in one instance Mrs feidgwick and in the
other Miss Johnson, neither of whom had any reason for
supposing that there was any particular significance in the
word.
In view of the subsequent emergence of “ riianatos it is
practically certain that the words in the waking-stage of
April 17 recorded as “ Sanatos ” and “ Tanatos ” represent
mishearing's or mispronunciations of “ Ihanatos . “Sanatos
and “Tanatos”, it should be observed, were closely followed
on April 17 by the words :
“ O’er mountains seas and lakes
and rivers”: which, as we have already seen (v. p. 277),
were a variant of a cross-correspondence message which Myersp
said he had given to Mrs Vei-rall.
On the assumption that “ Sanatos ” and “ Tanatos ” repi'e-
sent the first emergence of “ Thanatos ” and that “ Thanatos
was the subject of a cross-correspondence experiment, it now^
remains to find the tally. A first tally I find in Mrs Holland’s
script of April 16, of which part has already been cited
(v. p. 278), and of which I will now give a copy of the ojiening
paragraphs :
—
Maurice. Morris. Mors.
And with that the shadow of death fell upon him and liis
soul departed out of his limbs.
The most agreeable sensation of which I was at first conscious
was that I was no longer deaf.
298 J. G. Piddington. [part
The third paragraph appeal's to describe the hrst sensation
of someone after death. It is signed with the initials of a
dead man, known by reputation to Mrs Holland. I imagine
that the immediately ]ireceding reference to death provoked
a recollection in her mind of this particular man’s death.
Awl with that the sJutdoiv of death etc. sounds like a
quotation, but I cannot place it. In any case it appears to be
reminiscent of the Homeric
coKci Se 9u/UO?
’T^2y6r’ aTTO jueXewp crTwyepo? S' dpa piv (tk('>to‘s elXev.
il/or.s, the Latin woi'd for Death, tallies with “ Thanatos ”,
the Greek word for Death, uttered the next da_v in the
waking-stage of Mrs Piper’s trance. Both words are given
separately ;
and both seem to emerge in such a way as to
suo-o-est that in each case tlie automatist orot an auditorv
T'O O »/
perception of a spoken word, not a mental perception of a
general idea: “Maurice—Mori-is—Mors” in one case; “ Sanatos
—Tanatos—Thanatos” in the other.
Here as elsewhere (v. p. 219), though exactly the same idea
is expressed by both automatists, this is done, not by both
writing exactly the same word or words, but by one producing
a word 01' yihrase or reference difierent from, yet equivalent
to the word or phrase or reference made by the other.
In Mrs Holland’s case the word “death” as well as the
Latin “Mors” is given. The object of this introduction of
the Eno'lish word “death” seems to me to have been not so
much to supply a translation as to indicate that “Mors” was
the only significant word of the three words written on the
fii'St line.
The word “ Thanatos ” was cleaily pronounced on two
occasions by Mrs Piper during the waking-stage, first on
April 23, and again on April 30. One may suppose that on
April 23 the word was uttered to explain the misheard or
mispronounced * Sanatos ” and “ Tanatos ” of April 17 ;
the
second and double repetition of the word on April 30 would
liave seemed superfluous had it not been that Mrs Verrall,
who attended a sitting with Mrs Piper on that day, had
written on April 29 a piece of script containing four quota-
299
LVii.] Series of Concordant Automatisms.
tions all involving the notion of Death. This script, written
at 10.40 p.ni., reads as follows :
—
Warmed both hands before the Fire of Lite.
It fails and I am ready to depart.
Manibus date lilia plenis [give lilies with full hands]
The river Nile. /\
I—5.
Daisy
Come away Come away
Pallida mors aecpm pede panperum
tabernas regumque turres
put in pulsat
Tu beate Sesti
[Pale death with equal foot the huts of the poor and the
towers of the rich. (Put in) “strikes”. Thou, happy
Sestius.]
Another time will help
Goodbye,
But you have got the word plainly written
all along in your own writing. Look back.
This script Mrs Venall handed to Miss Johnson at 12 noon
when she entered the room in which the sitting of April 30
was being held ;
and she handed to Miss Johnson at the same
time a written note stating that she interpreted the script as
alluding to Death. Neither the script nor the note could
have been seen by Mrs Piper.
The first two lines are quoted from a motto ])refixed by
W. S. Landor to The last fruit off an old tree
:
“I strove with none, for none was worth my strife;
Nature I loved, and, next to nature, art;
I warmed both hands before the fire of life ;
It sinks, and I am ready to depart.”
300 [part
J. G. Piddington.
The symbol A, as is made clear by its repetition later
preceded by “the river Nile”, is the Greek letter Delta. In
Mrs Verrall’s contemporaneous note “Delta” is put down as
one of the points suggestive of Death. Mrs Verrall subse-
quently explained to me how it came about that Delta
suggested Death to her. She wrote ;
“I had at the time [i.e. when the script was produced] a strong
impression that, long before I knew any classics, someone had told
me that a Greek capital A was engraved on the voting tablets used to
condemn. I believe this to be a mistake due to a confusion between
(a) the Roman use of D in such a case, and (b) the Greek word
for a tablet, SeAros [so called from the original Delta-like shape].
But I do not think the confusion is mine, Anyhow on
April 30 I took A to mean Death, and Nile to be an explanation
of the first A.”
Manibus date lilia 'plenis is a quotation from the famous
passage in the sixth book of the Aeneid where Anchises
foretells the early death of Marcellus, the nephew of Augustus,
and in dramatic anticipation calls for lilies and bright flowers
to strew on the corpse.
Mrs Verrall traced no significance in “Daisy”. Two possible
interpretations, of which I think the second the more likel,y,
have occurred to me :
(1) “There is a popular superstition that if you omit to
put your foot on the first Daisy you see in Spring, Daisies
will grow over you or some one dear to you ere the year
be out.” Richard Folkard, Plant Lore, p. 308.
(2) The Vergiliau quotation and its context:
“ Tu Marcellus eris. Manibus date lilia plenis,
Purpureos spargam flores,”
might have evoked recollections of Shakespeare’s Hamlet.
Thus the Marcellus of the Aeneid might have I’ecalled the
Marcellus of Hamlet ;
and the strewing of a corpse with
flowers and especially 'with “ purpureos flores ” might have
recalled the Queen’s description of Ophelia’s death :
“ There is a willow grows aslant a brook,
That shows his hoar leaves in the glassy stream;
i.vn.] A Series of Concordant Automatisins. 301
There with fantastic garlands did she come
Of crow-flowers, nettles, daisies, and long 'purples
That liberal shepherds give a grosser name,
But our cold maids do dead men’s fingers call them.”
It should be remarked that “Daisy” is immediately followed
by a Shakespearian quotation ;
“ Come awa}', come away,
[Death].” And this quotation may in turn have been suggested
by “ manibus date lilia plenis,” for the second verse of the
poem beginning “ Come away, come away, Death ” alludes like-
wise to the strewing of flowers on the dead:—“Not a flower,
not a flower sweet. On my black coffin let there be strown.”
Pallida mors etc. is a correct quotation of Horace I, 4, 13
and 14, except that “ Tu ” is sub.stituted for “ O
For the small drawing followed by the word “sign” Mrs
Verrall did not put forward any explanation at the time when
the script was written. Afterwards she suggested that it
might be an ace of clubs, which she vaguely recollected was
associated with ill luck in some story she had read. Miss
Johnson reminded me of the significance attached to the ace
of clubs in E-. L. Stevenson’s The Suicide Club
:
‘“It is a pack of fifty-two,” whispered Mr Malthas. “Watch for
the ace of spades, which is the sign of deatli, and the ace of clubs,
which designates the official of the night.”’
The man who drew the ace of spades had to be killed by
the man who drew the ace of clubs. It will be noticed that
the novelist calls the ace of spades ‘
the sign of deatli ’, and
if the drawing in the script was intended to represent the
ace of clubs, one may suppose that the word “sign” which
followed the drawing was due to a confused recollection of
the title given to the ace of spades in the story.
I cannot inqirove on this explanation, but it would be more
convincing if the drawing was not more like a flower of some
kind than an ace of clubs.
On April 28, the day before the script was written, Mrs
Verrall had come across Dante’s translation of “ manibus date
lilia jilenis” in Pu'rgatorio, Canto XXX. This quotation and
the association of A with the idea of Death must both ha,ve been
302 J. G. Piddrngtov. [part
derived from uo other source than tlie automatist’s own mind.
So if the subject of Death was ins|)ired from outside, whether
by Mrs Piper, who had uttered “Thanatos”, or by Mrs Sidgwick
or Miss Johnson wlio had heard it uttered, or by Mrs Holland,
or b}" a spirit, we must conclude that the form in which it
obtained expression was, in part at least, determined by the
automatist’s own mind.
It looks almost as if the scribe deliberately avoided writing
the word “ Death ” on Ai >ril 29. Thus the first four woi'ds of
the familiar quotation, “Come away, come away Death”, are
written, but not the fifth and most essential ;
and the nearest
a])proach made is when the Latin for death is written.
On the morning of April 29 Mi’s Verrall had had a sitting
with Mrs Piper, and in the course of it Myersp told her to
look out for a word beginning with a D which he was trying
to impress her with. Mrs Verrall replied that she thought
she had got the word, and told MyerSp what it was. He
.said it was not right, and that she must go on trying to get
the word he wanted.
The word beginning with a D to which Myersp was alluding
was not the word “Death”, but the word “Dwarf” which
weeks before I had asked Myersp to make Mi's Verrall write
(v. ]). 87). The reference to it made in Mrs Verrall’s presence
on April 29 was one out of thirty se])arate references made
between Feb. 19 and May 27. There are too many words
in the English language, not to speak of Latin and Greek
(from either of which lang-uages a word might well have
been chosen for the purpose of an experiment), to permit of
the sup})Osition that Myersp by telling Mrs Verrall he was
trying to make her write a word beginning with a D gave
clue enough to account for Mrs Verrall’s producing a script
which, though it does not contain the word “Death”, yet is
pervaded with the idea of it.
The word “Death” occurs only once iu Mrs Verrall’s script
during the period under review ;
and that is iu a piece ot
script wi’itten on May 1, 1907, the day after she heard the
word “ Thanatos ” pronounced in Mrs Piper’s trance.
If anyone is ready to admit that the coincidences between
the automatic wiltings of Mrs Verrall and Mrs Holland and
LVIl.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 303
the trance-speech of Mrs Piper set forth above are not
accidental and are due to some supernormal cause, then I
think he must go a step further and acknowledge that the
order in which the uttei-ances of “ Thanatos ” in the waking-
stage of Mrs Pijjer’s trances are distributed is strongly suggestive
of method and intelligence.
Mrs Holland’s scii|it of April 16 was written at 7.30 p.m.
Calcutta time, i.e. 1.30 p.m. Greenwich time. On Apihl 17,
the first occasion, that is, that Mrs Piper went into trance
after Mrs Holland’s script was written, “ Sanatos ” and
“Tanatos” were uttered in the waking-stage. Then on A]>ril 23
the faulty pronunciations of April 17 are amended, and
“Thanatos” is successfully articulated. The word is not
again spoken until Apiil 30, the first occasion, that is, on
which Mrs Piper was entranced after Mrs Verrall had written
on the night of April 29 a script which in vaiious ways
refers to death. The last utterance of the word was at the
sitting on May 7, which Miss Johnson attended, and may
perhaps have been then made in order to draw Miss Johnson’s
attention to it, she having just three days before received Mrs
Holland’s script of April 16.
It may be thought that the word “ Death ” was one very
likely indeed to occur in the trance-script or trance-speech of
Mrs Piper and in the scripts of Mis Holland and Mrs Ven-all.
No doubt the woi-d does occur in the case of Mrs Piper
occasionally, though the trance-personalities have a strong and,
as I think, silly objection to its use; but during the sittings
held in England it certainly did not occur as a single dis-
connected word or in such a context as to suggest that it w’as
the important word of the sentence, except on the occasion
under discussion, and then only in a Greek form.
I have already said that in Mrs Verrall’s script the word
appears only once.
Mrs Holland’s script is voluminous, but I believe I am
accurate in asserting that the word “death” occurred in it
during the period under review four times only: once on
Dec. 31, 1906 in a quotation, ‘“Bodily death ensues when
the soul’s attention is totally withdrawn from the organism
etc.”’; once, on Jan. 2, 1907, in the phrase: “The gold of the
304 [part
G. Piddington.
earthly service The myrrh of death —the frankincense of the
life eternal— once on March 13 in the following context;
No conscious recollection, it is unreasonable to expect that
immediately.
“ She knew she had waded bosom deep
Along Death’s bank in the sedge of sleep”
—
But a wild sjleam on a shaken shoal.
and once, as cited above, on Apill 16, when it is preceded by
“ Mors,” the Latin word for death.
XXII.
“LAUS DEO”.
I have already referred (v. )). 233) to the disconnected
phrases uttered during the waking-stage of the trance of
April 17, 1907 ;
and have expressed the opinion that the
phrases then and thus pronounced were cross-correspondence
messages given b}^ Hodgsoiip and Myersp.
Among them were the words, “ Laus Deo”, first pro-
nounced as one word “ Lausteo ”.
I quote part of the record :
What’s Rector doing over there 1
Why I heard such jablmring.
Are you going i
— — — — — — — — Tyrannus
Semper — — — — — Tyrannus.
What’s Mr Hodgson saying ?
I want to see the pretty things.
What’s that man with a long beard i
M'hat’s that light anyway ?
A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 305
lvil]
What’s Mr Myers keeps saying (a Christian name four times
repeated.)
Mr Myers has got Rector by the ear. Whispers into it.
What’s last — — — — 1 Oh ! he is writing it.
Lausteo.
Laburnum (?), Daffodils, I smell them.
That’s funny .... I never saw anything — — before.
What is it 1
There was a man and a ....
What’s the difference between this world and another one,
and that’s a rainbow . . a rainbow — — colours.
Lausteo.
Laus Deo. That’s right.
This is horrible I must say. (followed by the usual kind of
talk that accompanies the coming out of trance.)
Probably an attempt was made in the waking-stage of the
trance of May 8, 1907 to pronounce the words again. The
words uttered were the.se :
—
Hail ! udeo -
— all right 1-a-u-d-e-o
banner ab(?) loving (?) love is strong — — I must go
Hullo — Hullo ! I’m glad — eternal ( ?)
Although I knew that the words “ Laus Deo ” had appeai’ed
in Mrs Verrall’s script, I rvas for a long time disinclined to attach
any importance to the coincidence, because I w^as under the im-
pression that “Laus Deo”, like “Pas Yobiscum”, rvas one of the
regular tags associated with Imperator in Mrs Piper’s trance,
and would consecpiently be known to Mrs Verrall. But I
believe that I was mistaken, for I have not been able to trace
either in the published or in the unpublished records any
other instance of these words having been written or spoken
in the Piper trance. (Mrs Yerrall’s acquaintance with the
records is with a few exceptions confined to the records
published in Proceedings.) Of course I cannot assert that
there is no such instance; the records are far too voluminous
to allows such an exhaustive search as would be needed to
establish the point definitely being made without an un-
justihable waste of time and labour. But anyhow the words
occur once only in the series of sittings which took place in
J. Ct. Piddi'agton.
O
O 06 [part
Engiaiid, and cannot appear frequently in other sittings or I
must have come across them.
Appended is a copy of Mrs Yerrall’s script of Nov. 16, 1906,
in which the words “ Laus Deo ” occur ;
—
Did Hodgson see the source
Diastole and systole in alternate
rhythms beating.
Laus in aeternum Aeterno
Deo. Laus et Gratia [Praise for ever to tlie Everlasting
God. Praise and thanks.]
Now begin
o/aoto/j.epvy ra. crrotyeta
—
rouoSe toj ytrerat ciA/V’ oi’
—avTo.yij^ [sic] cl/xota d/zoiot? (TVjxfiaXXcTai' Sia ravra —o/\-
kuKis ippei rd (TvpfiaXX6jie.va. ov tolvvv ecrri, tl.
§e Kut aXXoL rw£i p.uTO.[(D<i
[The elements are of like parts ;
in that way combination
takes place. But like things are not everywhere placed
with likes; so often the things that are being placed
together fail. Then there is not a something, (i.e. then
nothing comes of it.)
And you and certain other people seek in vain.]
The rest of the script refers to an experiment which Mrs
Yerrall was to try with a friend in a few days’ time, and
does not belong to the preceding.
The Gi’eek, I have no doubt, refers to the subject of cross-
correspondences; and is analogous to a phrase in the script of
Feb. 11: “It is all fragmentary and you must piece together
—
the essential word is often not grasped and the whole success
so spoiled” (v. p. 81).
It will be seen that neither in the trance of April 17 nor in
the script of Nov. 16 is “Laus Deo” in any way a.ssociated
with Imperator. In the latter Hodgson is mentioned by name ;
but he clearly is not the scribe, as the scribe speaks cjf him in
the third person. I should have no hesitation in identifying
the scribe as Myersy, the Greek sentences being entirely in
keeping with the style of the signed communications of this
personality. In the trance “Laus Deo” seems to be attributed
to Myersp.
As I have already said, the words “ Laus Deo ” occur once
307
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
only in Mrs Piper’s trance between November 1906 and June
1907; and the only appearance of the words, either singly
or together, in Mrs Verrall’s script during the same period is
in the script of Nov. 16, 1906. The “in aeterimm Aeterno
’’
of the script should be compared with the “ Laudeo ’’
and
“ eternal ”(?) uttered in the waking-stage of the trance on
May 8. The strongest reason for regarding the coincidence as
accidental is the long interval of time, just five months, which
elapsed before the words written by Mrs Verrall were repro-
duced in the trance. On the other hand it must not be
forgotten that the coincidence is one of a series.
XXIII.
“ MUSIC
This case can be properly understood only if read in
connection with the “ Latin Message ” (v. pp. 312-416), which I
should accordingly advise the reader to study first. Here it
will be sufficient to explain that at the sitting with Mrs Piper
held on IMay 6, 1907 Myersp remarked to Mrs Sidgwick that
he had completed his answer to Mrs Verrall’s question about
aJro? ovpavo? uKiijmcov, and that he believed that he had answered
the question put to him in the Latin Message “ through both
lights sufficiently for jmu to understand that I have really
answered at last ’’
:
“ both lights ” meaning Mrs Piper and Mrs
Verrall. To this Mrs Sidgwick replied:—“Through Mrs Verrall
you answered very clearly, and through this light you have
said a good deal about Aht Vogler. But in Abt Vogler there
is a particular line which specially answers the Latin message.
The Latin message, as you know, refers to cross-correspondences,
308 J. G. Piddington. [part
but also to something more, and there is a line in Aht Vogler
which we think you had in mind as describing that some-
thing more. It would be very good if you would give it
here.”
At a later stage of the same sitting the subject is brought
up again :
—
(Myers communicating) Now one word more. Mrs S. my
reply was. about the poem, and long ago I gave the
word Music, which came to me as appropriate, to my
answer, and U.D. [i.e. understanding] of the message.
E. M. 8. Yes, quite right.
You must patch things together as best you can. Remember
we do not give odd or singular words without (Hand
grasps the “healer’s influence”: i.e. a piece of material
belonging to a mental healer, which Rector says j^rovides
him with “light”.) a deep and hidden meaning
in all our messages through both lights there is always
more or less of the human element in them, which cannot
be avoided, for your U.D.
E. M. >S. I see.
but you must discriminate and disect [sic] . . . the spiritual
from the material and you will see and U.D. much.
Now we need not trouble our,selves at this point to enquire
whether “ Music ” was an appropriate answer or not to the
Latin Message; that will be discussed elsewhere (v. p. 317).
What we have now to determine is whether the word “Music”
appeared in Mrs Verrall’s script, and, if so, in what context.
I say in Mrs A^errall’s script, for there cannot be the least
doubt that Myersp meant that he had long ago given the word
“ Mu.sic ” to Mrs Verrall. She is not, it is true, explicitly
mentioned, but whenever MyerSp is dealing with the Latin
Message he has only one other automatist in mind besides
Mrs Piper, and that is Mrs Verrall.^ He claimed on various
occasions to have answered the Latin IMessage through Mrs
Verrall, who is, moreover, the only automatist other than Mrs
^ Except for a probable reference to Miss Verrall on April 8 in the phrase
“I drew a Star through the other light —also a crescent”.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 309
Piper mentioned at the sitting of May 6 ;
and “ long ago I
gave the word ‘
Music
’
” can hardly mean that “ the word
‘
Music
’
” was long ago given to Mrs Piper, because such was
not the case.
The expression “ long ago ” cannot refer to a time previous
to the inauguration of the series of sittino\s held in London,
because it was not until Mrs Piper came to London that the
question contained in the Latin Message was put to Myersp.
The first nine words of the Latin message, Diversis inter-
nuntiis quod invicem inter se resqyondentia jamdyudum
committis, which may be rendered literally into English :
“ As
to the fact that for some time past you have been entrusting
to different intermediaries things which correspond mutually
between themselves (i.e. cross-correspondences) ” ; was spelt out
to Hector on Dec. 17, 1906 between 11.40 a.m. and 12 noon.
The last word “ committis ” was spelt out and pronounced as
the clock struck twelve.
At the beginuing of the sitting the trance-personalities had
been told that Mrs Yerrall would be sitting for automatic
writing at twelve o’clock, and after this hour had struck
Prudens announced that he would give the words “ The leaves
have fallen, and are crumbling with the dust” to her. No
trace of this message is to be found in any part of Mrs Verrall’s
script, but read in connection with the statement made by
Myersp on May 6,
“ long ago I gave the word music ”, and
with the context in which these words appeared, the automatic
writing produced by Mrs Yerrall on Dec. 17, 1900 is certainly
suggestive.
This script was begun at 12 noon, that is, immediately
after the words Diversis internimtUs quod^ invicem inter se
respondentia jamdudum committis had been given to Rector
for transmission to Myersp ;
and it read as follows :
—
Revolving axes
Revolving spheres the mystic music make
Revolving spheres the harmony began
Harmonious sound scarce audible to man
Then from every several unit of the whole
Joined the majestic music of the Soul
no no
.310 J. Ct. Piddivgton. [part
Majestic music
No—you dont see what I want—begin again.
Eevolving spheres the harmony began
—
A diapason manifest to man
—
Eacli single unit played its several part
Discoursing symphony with godsent art
Till the majestic music of the whole
Throbbed in pulsation : —and the throbbing Soul
Saw through the sound the burning of the flame
Felt the lost Presence —to the Presence came.
The word “ music ” occuns four times ;
besides this “ harmony ”
occurs twice, and “harmonious” “ symphony” and “diapason”
once : in fact, terms of musical significance predominate.
The script, as the following cpiotations will show, owes
much of its phraseology to two literary sources: Drydeii’s
Hymn for S. Cecilia's Day, and F. W. H. Myers’s transla-
tion of two Greek Oracles, published in Essays Classical
pp. 97-100 :
—
From Harmony, from heavenly Harmony
This universal frame began :
O
Fiom harmony, from heavenly harmony
This universal frame began :
From harmony to harmony
Through all the compass of the notes it ran.
The diapason closing full in Man.
As from the power of sacred lays
The spheres began to move,
J. Dpyden.
() God ineffable, eternal Sire,
Throned on the whirling spheres, the astral fire,
Hid in Avhose heart thy whole creation lies,
—
Thee the first Number and harmonious whole.
Form in all forms, and of all souls the Soul.
311
LviT,] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Once by God’s grace was from thine eyes unfurled
This veil that screens the immense and whirling world,
Once, while the spheres around thee in music ran.
Was very Beauty manifest to man ;
—
F. W. H. Myers.
Mrs Verrall knew all about the Latin Message experiment,
and although she did not know when I was going to start
the experiment, it may be assumed that she thought I should
take an early opportunity of doing so. Accordingly the
script of Dec. 17 might be attributed to her own subconscious
expectation.
The appropriateness of the script of Dec. 17, and particularly
of the lines
“ Each single unit played its several part
Discoursing symphony with god-sent art
Till the majestic music of the whole
Throbbed in pulsation”
as an answer to the cpiestion put in Latin to Myersp will be
-evident when we come to deal with the Latin Message.
In spite of the absence of signature I have no hesitation in
attributing the script of Dec. 17 to Myersy, for not only is it
in the same style as many of the signed communications of
this personality, but, as Mrs A^errall herself pointed out and
as has been just explained, some of its phraseology is certainly
-borrowed from a verse-translation of F. W. H. Myers’s.
Mrs Veriall’s knowledge of the experiment described in the
Latin Message may serve to explain the contents of her script
-of Dec. 17 ;
but Mrs Piper did not shai'e Mrs Verrall’s know-
ledge ;
and even if she had, it would not account for her, in
common with Mrs Verrall, hitting on “ Music ” as an appropriate
answer to the Latin Message, nor for the knowledge displayed
in her trance of May 6 of the fact that “ long ago ” the word
Music” had appeared in Mrs Verrall’s script.
THE LATIN MESSAGE.
Between the scripts of Mrs Verrall and Mrs Holland, as
readers of Miss Johnson’s paper ]jublished in Proc. Part LV.
will know, a good number of coincidences has been traced
befoi’e the English sittings with Mrs Piper began. Much of
both these two scri|)ts purports to be inspired by a group
of spirits, of whom “ Myers ” is the most prominent. In the
communications which purported to be made through Mrs
Verrall and Mrs Holland by this group Miss Johnson thought
she could detect evidence of an attempt to carry out a form
of cross-correspondence more complex than that which consists
in the production of the same word or phrase through two
automatists. This simple type of coincidence it is easy enough
to explain as the result of telepathic interchange between the
automatists ;
but this theory seemed inadequate to cover some
of the more complex forms of cross-correspondence inherent in
Mrs Verrall’s and Mrs Holland’s scripts, which appeared to
point to the action of some third mind.^
And as we turned the problem over in our minds we
came to realise how cross-cori’espondences might be so
elaborated as to aftbrd almost conclusive proof of the inter-
vention of a third mind, and strong evidence of the identity
of this third mind.
These considerations suggested that when Mrs Piper, in
whose trance the same group of personalities tigures as in
Mrs Verrall’s and Mrs Holland’s scripts, came to England,
the development of elaborate and complex cross-correspondences
should be encouraged. With this end in view we drew up a
short message to be addressed to Myersp. 1’he message was
^ See especially Chapter VII. of Miss Johnson’s paper.
313
PART lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms.
first written in Euolish, and then translated into Latin. Dr
Yerrall kindly undertook the translation, and made a special
})oint of avoiding the use of any words or phrases which
might aftbrd clues to a person ignorant of Latin but clever
at guessiim.
For the benefit of readers who do not know Latin I may
add that the Latin of the message is by no means simple
to translate ;
and its meaning could hardly be discovered,
even with the help of a dictionary, by a person possessed
of only a small knowledge of Latin. The object of putting
the message into Latin was partl}^ to prevent the normal
consciousness of Mrs Piper, who knows no Latin, from atfecting
the result; and partly to test whether Myersp could display
any of the knowledge of Latin that Frederic Myers had
possessed.
Appended are (a) the original draft in English—which was
never, of course, seen by Mis Piper—(b) Dr Verrall’s trans-
lation, and (c) a literal re-translation into English of Dr
Verrall’s Latin.
(a) \\ & are aware of the scheme of cross-correspondences
which you are transmitting through various mediums
;
and we hope that you will go on with them.
Try also to give to A and B two different messages,
between which no connexion is discernible. Then as
soon as possible give to C a third message which will
reveal the hidden connexion.
(b) Diversis internuntiis cpiod invicem inter se respondentia
jamdudum committis, id nec fallit nos consilium, et
vehementer probamus.
L"num accesserit gratissimum nobis, si, cum duobus
quibusdam ea tradideris, inter quae nullus appareat
nexus, postea quam primum rem per tertium aliquem
ita perficias, ut latens illud in prioribus explicetur.
(c) As to the fact that [quod] for some long time past
you have been entrusting [committis] to different inter-
mediaries (or, messengers) things which correspond
mutually between themselves, we have observed your
design, and we cordially approve it.
One thing besides this most agreeable to us will have
314 G. Piddi'ngton. [part
happened, [i.e. You will even add to our pleasure] if,
when you shall have delivered to two particular persons
things between which no connexion is apparent, after-
wards as soon as possible through some third person
you so complete the matter (or, business) that that
which was latent in the first two (messages) may be
revealed.
There i.s in this ca.se a great mass of evidence to be con-
sidered. Much of it I have been bound to cite in full, as
summaries would have been misleading. Though I fear that
the reader -will at times hud himself rather bewildei'ed, I hope
that the comments and the synopses of the evidence to be found
on pp. 323-330, 347-357, 397-407 and 408-416, will explain
the obscurities sufficiently to enable him to form his own
judgment of the case.
The experiment extended over a period of five mouths and
a half: from Dec. 17, 190G to June 2, 1907.
The subject was first mooted at the sitting of Dec. 17, 1906,
when I alone was present, in the following way :
—
J. G. P. I want you [i.e. Hector] to transmit to Myers a message
in a foreign language, understood by Myers when on
this earth.
(Rector communicating)
Greek.
.1. G. P. No.
Latin.
J. G. P. Yes. Rector, you don’t understand Latin, I think.
Yes it is so.
J. G. P. Can I transmit the message letter by letter ?
of course.
.1. G. P. I attach great importance to this message and to its being
correctly transmitted. One object in sending this message
in Latin is to see whether Myers can understand it.
To show that he must send an intelligent reply to it
;
not merely such a reply as “I understand”, or “Yes”
315
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
or “ Xo ”, but a reply which will show that he has
grasped the purport of it.
We U.D.
Also we want to convey information to you and flyers
and the group associated with him without its reaching
any part of the consciousness of the light.
^
Quite U.Dd.
Shall I send the message now or another day ?
Do I U.D. that you wish me to give the message to Myers
and receive his reply to-day or take the message to him
some other day and bring the reply at that time 1
If, Eector, you have any means of registering permanently
the words I shall give you, please take the message now
and gi\'e it afterwards to Myers, who can send his reply
later.
We must not confuse messages; therefore you would [sic]
better irive it now before we begin with our messages
to Mrs Verall [sic] and others. U.D. [It had been
arranged just previousl}’ that the controls should choose
a word or phrase and try to transmit it to Mrs Yerrall
and Mrs Thompson]
J.G. P. I shall first pronounce the whole word and then spell it
letter by letter.
I then pronounced syllable by" syllable, and spelt out letter
by letter, the words : Diversis internuntiis quod invicem
inter se respondentia jamdudum committis.
On this occasion and on subsequent occasions Ptector wrote
down as I gave it each word and mark of punctuation, though
several words had to be repeated more than once before they
were correctly written out.
As the last word committis was written down the clock,
as I noted at the time, struck twelve. At twelve o’clock on
this same morning Mrs Verrall at Cambridge sat down to write
1 Here, as in a good many other instances, it must be understood that the
experimenter, in order to convey his meaning acceptably to the trance-
personalities, is expressing himself in terms to which under ordinary circum-
stances he might not subscribe.
LVII.]
J. G. P.
J. G. P.
J. G. P.
316 J. G. Piddington. [part
automatically ;
and the script then ])roduced would form a
most appropriate answer to this first clause of the first sentence
of the Latin Messao-e.
At the sitting of Dec. 19, at which Miss Helen Verrall and I
were present, after repeating at Rector’s request the word
internuntiis, I spelt out id nec fallit nos consilium.
On Dec. 24, when I alone was present, et veliementer p7’o-
hamus. Unum accesserit gratissimum nobis, si cum duobus
quibusdam ea tradideris was given.
On Dec. 31 Rector immediatelv after the usual Rreetinos
wrote: “We have in part U.D. and conveyed your me.ssage
to your friend Myers and he is delighted to receive it so far
as he has been able to receive it ”.
Shortly afterwards I spelt out inte7' quae nullus appareat
nexus, postea quam primum rem.
On Jan. 2, 1907 Rector said; “Hodgson is helping Myers with
his translation”; and a little later Mj’ersp said; “your message
has impressed me veiy much and I shall gladly translate it
into English for you I remarked that I didn’t want the
Latin to be translated, but a message to be sent which would
show that the Latin had been understood.
Myersp replied :
“ I quite understand and I will certainly do
so ”, and then asked for the rest of the message to be dictated.
per terti'um uliquem ita pyerjicias, ut latens ilhul in priori-
bus explicetur was accordingly spelt out. Whereupon Myersp
said ;
“ I may ask you before I reply to repeat one or more
words that I may be quite sure that I have understood it
properly
In the waking-stage, immediately after the utterance of a sen-
tence which can be attributed to MyerSp only, came the words
;
“United (?) we (?) stand (?) divided we fall. Stick to it
and spite of awful United— You know.”
The second utterance of “ united ” was quite clear, and as
“ divided we fall ” had been also quite clearly pronounced,
there can be no reasonable doubt that the quotation “United
we stand, divided we fall ” was intended.’^ The phrase was
never stated to be the subject of a cross-correspondence, and
' I leave the queries against the first three words only because they were
inserted in the original record.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. S17
has no relevance to anything said at the sitting, unless it be
to the second sentence of the Latin Message, the concluding
words of which were dictated for the first time in the course
of this sitting of Jan. 2.
“United we stand, divided we fall” would be a most
apposite comment on the second sentence; so apposite, indeed,
that had it been definitely connected in the trance with the
Latin Message I should without hesitation have considered
O
that the trance-personalities had thereby given proof of having
grasped the general meaning of it. Just as Mrs Verrall’s script
of Dec. 17, written a few minutes after the first clause of
the first sentence had for the first time been dictated to the
trance-personalities, fonns an appropriate answer to this clause,
so here the words spoken in the waking-stage—“United we
stand, divided we fall
”
—form an equally appropriate answer
to the second paragraph of the Latin Message, the dictation
of which has been for the first time completed some 55 minutes
previously. The portion of the Latin Message first dictated on
Dec. 17 refers to the transmission to ditferent intermediaries
of things which correspond (answer mutually) between them-
selves : i.e. to cross-correspondences. The expression “ things
which correspond mutually between themselves ” could be inter-
preted so as to appl}^ either to complex cross-correspondences,
or—as it was really intended—to the simpler forms of cross-
correspondence, which consist in the reproduction through two
or more automatists of the same word or words or of the same
idea expressed in different phraseology. The leading thought
expressed in Mrs Verrall’s script of Dec. 17, namely, that of
harmony or of a symphony resulting from the combination of
single sounds would correspond to either interpretation of the
first sentence of the Message J and this script of Mrs Verrall’s
for reasons already explained (v. pp. 310-11) is undoubtedly
in the style of Myersy.
1 That an answer should have been given to the second half of the Latin
Message by Myersv before the words of it had been dictated to Myersp is not
necessarily inconsistent with the hyijothesis that the knowledge of what passes
at the Piper sittings manifested by Myersv is acquired by this personality
from Myersp ; because Myersp may on Dec. 17 (or, as the gist of the Latin
Message was known to myself and others before that date, even earlier) have
acquired telepathicaUy knowledge of the whole Message.
318 J. G. Fiddington. \
[part
In the second sentence of the Message, the dictation of
which was for the first time completed on Jan. 2, the
suggestion is made that Myersp should carry out a more com-
plicated form of cross-correspondence by first giving two
apparently disconnected messages to two different automatists
and then revealing by means of a third message given through
a third automatist a hidden connection between the first two
messages. Obviously if the first part only of such an experi-
ment were carried out, the two disconnected messages would
in their unsupported isolation fall to the ground, so to speak;
whereas if the first two messages were united by means of
the third messao-e all three would stand.
On Jan. 14 Myersp told Mrs. Verrall, who was present at
the sitting, that lie was preparing a long message for me, and
expressed the hope that when he had finished it I should
believe he had sent it.
On Jan, 15 I asked if Myer.sp could give his answer to the
Latin Message on the following day, and Rector advised me
not to press for an answer.
On Jan. 16 Myersp, through Rector, asked me not to be
impatient for his answer.
At Rector’s request I again spelt out and pronounced the
words javuludiim committis, once at the beginning and once
at the close of the sitting.
As described in Section III, I had asked Myersp at this sitting
to mark cross-corresponding messages given to Mrs Verrall
and Mrs Holland with a triangle within a circle. A little later,
I impressed on M}mrsp the importance we attached to obtaining
cross-corresponding messages, and expressed the opinion that
it was “ more important to get them than for you spirits to
give facts about your past lives”. To this Myerisp made a
most intelligent rejoinder:—-Why, he asked, did we attach so
much importance to them ;
for, said he, “ if you establish
telepathic messages, you will doubtless attribute all such to
thoughts from those living in the mortal bod}^ ;
while as a
matter of fact we are the living intelligences who actively
transmit and receive the messages”. I contented myself by
making the following, a]')parently unintelligent, reply :
—“When
you say we should doubtless attribute these me.ssages to tele-
lvil] 319
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
pathy between living minds, I don’t agree. It doesn’t look
like telepathy at all. It looks to us jinst like the independent
and intelligent action of external intelligences ”. This did not,
and was not intended to, meet the criticism ot Myersp.
Throughout the whole series of sittings the ex|:)erinienters, Mrs
Sidgwick, Sir Oliver Lodge and myself, gave no indication
or hint of any kind that what we wanted was cross-corre-
spondences of a complex type ;
we alwa3's spoke as if the
only object in view were to obtain the I'eproduction through
another automatist of the same word or words as those
chosen either by ourselves or b\' the trance-personalities for
the purpose.
MyerSp, re-echoing an opinion just before expressed by myself,
then continued as follows :
“ Both Hodgson and mj-’self are
extremely anxious to give jmu proof of our real existence
;
and I am more or less convinced that neither he or [.sic] I
can do so b}^ narrating our past experiences or those which
we have succeeded to retain ”.
I replied :
“ I think a combination of the two—I mean
narrating past experiences and sending concordant messages
through dift'erent lights—is a telling method of proof.” Here
again I was, of course, masking my real meaning under the
cover of the indefinite term “ concordant me.ssages
On Jan. 23 I for the first time put, at Mrs Verrall’s request,
the following c[uestion to Myersp :
“ Which Ode of Horace
entered deepl^^ into your inner life ?
” Immediatel}'" after this
had been done, M^-ersp said :
“ I should like to go over the
first and second sentences of our Latin message ... I believe
I can send you a message which will please j’ou if I understand
it clearl}" ”. The juxta-position of these two subjects, for which
I was in no way responsible, should be borne in mind in
view of future developments. After an interval, during which
other matters were referred to, I repeated Diversis mdlus
appareat nexus.
After Jan. 23 and up to Feb. 6 there was no fresh reference
made in the trance to the Latin Message. On the morning
of Jan. 23 Myersp for the first time had said that he “believed
1 The connection between this question about an Ode of Horace and the
Latin Message is explained on pp. 397-407.
320 ./. G. Piddington. [part
he could send me a message” (i.e. a message in reply to my
Latin Message). On the night of Jan. 23 Mrs Veri-all wrote
a script, and on Jan. 28 another script, clearly a sequel to
the former, the leading points of which Myersp reproduced on
Feb. 11, and, on repeating them on Feb. 27, said that they
formed his answer to the Latin Message. Also, on Feb. 3,
Miss Vei’rall wrote a script which connects with a .script written
by her on Feb. 17 ;
and both these scripts correspond with
Mrs Verrall’s scripts of Jan. 23 and Jan. 28, and in part with
the description of them given by Myersp on Feb. 11 and 27.
On Feb. 6 Myersp said that he would reply to Mrs Verrall’s
Greek question (i.e. cu’to? ovgavog ukvij^wv) and my Latin Alessage
as soon as he could.
On Feb. 11, immediately after the references to the Library
quoted in Section V (pp, 52-55), came the following :
—
(Pre.sent : J. G. P. alone at this point)
(Myers communicating.)
Did she [i.e. Mrs Verrall] receive the word.
Evangelical.
J. G. P. “Evangelical”?
Yes.
,T. G. P. I don’t know, but I will encjuire.
I referred also to Browning again. [For an explanation of
“ again ” v. p. 60.]
J .(;. P. Do you remember what your exact reference to Browning
was ?
Yes. I referred to Plope and Browning.
Yes. (assent to reading)
I also said Star.
(Miss Newton enters to announce the arrival of the sitter,
Mr Macalister.)
Now, Myers, I must say goodbye, as the friend is here.
Do I U.D. that I am to go.
J. G. P.
lvil] 321
Series of Concordant AutomcUisras.
J. G. P. Yes ;
I’m sorry, but we can, I hope, have a good talk the
time after next.
Mean while look out for Hope Star and Browning.
J. G. P. Yes, I certainly will,
thank you very much good morning.
M.
J. G. P. Will you be ready with your answer to the Latin message
on the third! [i.e. ^Vednesday, Feb. 13.]
I will let you know at our next meeting how far I have
L".D. and replied. Yes. (assent to reading)
J. G. P. Thank you.
I will reply in part if not wholely.
Goodmorning. M.
Since at this point I had absolutely no grounds for suspecting
the existence of any connection between “ Hope Star and
Browning” and the Latin Message, it was a mere accident
that I happened to ask for an answer to the latter immediately
after Myersp had mentioned the former.
Thi’ee points should be noted :
—
(1) The past tense of “replied,” which must imply that on
February 11 iMyersp claims either that he has cdrectdy replied,
or that by next time he will have replied to the Latin Message.
(2) that “how far” cpialifies not only “I have understood”
but also “ replied ”
;
and accordingly suggests that the re|»ly
may be wanting in completeness.
(3) that MyerSp is not certain on Feb. 11 whether he
can give a complete reply. If Miss Verrall’s script of Feb.
17 constitutes, as I think it may, one part of a complex
reply to the Latin Message given jiartly through Mrs
Verrall, partly through Miss Verrall and partly through Mi’S
Piper ;
and if one may assume that Myersp was aware that
that part of this complex answer w^hich was ultimately
given in Miss Verrall’s script had not yet been given, and
knew that until it was given the answer would be incomplete;
then, the doubt which MyerSp expressed on Feb 11 as
X
322 J. G. Piddivf/ton. [part
to his ability to give a complete reply by Feb. 13 is cpiite
appropriate.
On Feb. 12 I told Myersp that “ Browning, Hope and Star
”
had appeared in Mrs A^’erralFs script :
—
J. Ct. P. Myers, I want to tell you that the message which you
said you gave to Airs A'errall about Browning, Star
and Hope has come out quite clearly.
(Alyers communicating)
thanks. I never tried with greater jiatience than I
did over those words.
I then went on to say that Mrs Sidgwick’s name, the name
“Myers” and “Library” had, notwithstanding my previous
denial (v. p. 55), also appeared in Mrs A^errall’s script.
Just before saying farewell Myersp again begged me not to
“ hurry or worry ” about his repl}^ to the Latin Message as
he would bring it out clearly.
Sitting of Feb. 13. On Feb. 11, just before the mention of
“Hope, Browning and Star”, Myersp had asked whether Mrs
Verrall had received the word “Evangelical”. As I had found
no trace of this word in Mrs A^errall’s script, I asked Myersp
on Feb. 13 when he had given “Evangelical” to Mrs Verrall:
“ Was it lately since you have talked with Mrs A^errall at
this light?” [i.e. since Jan. 30, 1907]. To this Myensp replied:
“No, I believe not, but recall it as one of my own words
which I tried to give her ”. At a later sitting it rvas explained
that Rector, who acts as intermediary and amanuensis for all
the trance-personalities, had misheard the word which he
transmitted erroneously as “ Evangelical ” and that wdiat
MyerSp had really wdshed to have conveyed was “ Evelyn
Hoj)e”. Consequently, if Myersp was unaware of Rector’s
error in transmission, he naturally must have been puzzled
by my question, and especially by my saying that he himself
had said that he had given “Evangelical” to Mrs AVrrail, and
under these cii'cumstanees may have been led to fancy tliat
he liad really given the word at some anterior period. That
one trance-personality should appear to be ignorant of what has
been said or written by another trance-personality, and even that
323
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms.
the personality communicating through Rector should seem to
be ionorant of what Rector has said or written on his behalf,
is a phenomenon frequently exhibited in the Piper trance
;
and, moreover, this discontinuity of consciousness is not only
explicitly asserted but is also often indirectly conveyed by the
most subtle touches ;
and though, doubtless, it may sometimes
serve as a convenient explanation of error, I believe it to be
often a real cleavage and not one simulated for dramatic purposes.
After answering the question about “ Evangelical ” Myersp
went on as follows: “If you will meet me on third after
coming [i.e. Wednesday, Feb. 20] I wdll give you my reply to
your message Latin”. I then said to Myersp : “I want to tell
you about “Browning, Hope and Star”. Mrs Verrall has got
the references to all three quite precise and definite ”.
1 propose to interrupt at this point my account of the
references made to the Latin Message in Mrs Piper’s trance
in order to quote and discuss two scripts of Mrs Verrall’s and
two of Miss Verrall’s. These scripts, which are given below
in their chronological order, had all been written before the
next reference to the Message was made in the trance on
Feb. 19; and before that date I had not only read them but
had read into them a meaning which aftected the whole
subsequent handling of the experiment.
Mrs Vcrrall's scrft of Jan. 23, 1907 (begun at 10.50 p.m.).
Justice holds the scales.
Tliat gives the words but an anagram would be better.
Tell him that—rats star tars and so on. Try this.
It has been tried before RTATS rearrange these
five letters or again tears
stare
seam
same
and so on
Skeat takes Kate’s Keats stake steak.
But the letters you should give tonight
are not so many—only three
a s t
324. J. G. Piddington. [part
Mrs Verrall’s scri'pt of Jan. 28, 1907.
Aster [star]
Te|oa5 [a sign or \voncler]
The world’s wonder
And all a wonder and a wild desire
—
The very wings of her.
Then there is Blake
And mocked my loss of liberty.
But it is all the same thing—the winged desire
epojs TToQ(.iv6<i [passion] the hope that leaves
the earth for the sky—Abt Vogler for earth
too hard that found itself or lost itself—in the sky.
That is what I want
On the earth the broken sounds
A WINGED DESIRE
vTTo-Tepos epios [winged love]
threads
In the sky the perfect arc
The C major of this life
But your recollection is at fault
A D B is the part that unseen completes
the arc.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 325
Part of Miss Verrall’s script of Feh. 3, 1907.
the crescent moon
remember that and the star
like a thunder riven oak the grim remains
stand on the level desolation of the plains
a record for all ages of the span
which nature gives to the weak labour of a man
Miss Ycrrcdl’s script of Feb. 17, 1907.
androsace (?) Carthusian candelabrum
man}’ together
that was the sign she will
understand when she sees it
diapason Sta -ao-wv pv6[xo‘i [rhythm through all]
no arts avail
the heavenly harmony ws eqfu; oTrAarwv [sic]
[as Plato says]
the mystic three (?)
X,
326 J. G. Piddington. [part
and a star above it all
rats everywhere in Hamelin town
now do you understand Henry
These four scrijits have been already discussed in Section VI,
and with that section I shall assume that the reader is
familiar.
In Mrs Verrall’s two scripts I naturally saw no meaning
when I first read them. After the sitting of Feb. 11, however,
in the course of which Myersp stated that he had referred to
“Hope and Browning” through Mrs Yerrall and had also said
“Star”, I took these two scripts, for reasons already explained
(p|>. 63-4), to represent “Hope, Star and Browning”. I then
read Browning’s Abt Vogler, with which I had had no previous
accpiaintance, and was immediately struck by the extraordinarily
apt answer to the second sentence of the Latin Message which
could be extracted from one of the only two [)assages in the
poem in which the word “ star ” occurs.
This passage runs ;
—
But here is the finger of God, a flash of the
will that can.
Existent behind all laws, that made them
and, lo, they are !
And I know not if, save in this, such gift be
allowed to man.
That out of three sounds he frame, not a
fourth sound, but a star.
Consider it well : each tone of our scale in
itself is nought
;
It is everywhere in the world —loud, soft,
and all is said
:
Give it to me to use ! I mix it with two in
my thought
:
And there I Ye have heard and seen:
consider and bow the head !
Were one to search English literature for a quotation per-
tinent to the experiment suggested in the Latin Message it
would be difficult to find one more felicitous than these lines
from stanza VII of Aht Vogler.
LVII.] ^•1 Series of Concordant Automatisms. 327
These particular lines, it is true, were not quoted in Mrs
Verrall’s script; but the emphasis thrown by both her scripts
on “Star”; the predominance of quotations from Abt Vogler
in the second script, the opening words of which—“ aster
Tepa? ’
—also seemed applicable to the star in Abt Vogler
which was both a sign and a wonder; and the reference to
“ the broken sounds ” ^ seemed to me to suggest that the scribe
was alluding specially to the seventh stanza of this poem.
I have since found further reasons which support my view
that the script of Jan. 28 was alluding specially to Stanza VII
of Abt Vogler. Thus : Tepag, which is explained by Liddell
andj Scott as “ any appeai’ance or event, in which men believed
thev could see the huger of God ” suggests “ But here is the
hnger of God And the word “ scales ” in the phrase Justice
holds the scales (which heads the script) may he compared
with “each tone of our scale”. On May 7 (v. pp. 388-391)
M}’ersp persisted in S}iite of several failures until he hnally
succeeded in giving the word “scale” to complete the quota-
tion “ in my passion to sccde the sky To play in this
way on three different meanings of the word “ scale ” would be
quite in keeping with the style of the whole incident in which
anagrams play so prominent a part.
^loreover, the Sid Truuuv pvOfj.6^ of Miss Veriall’s script of
Feb. 17, which is closely connected with Mrs Verrall’s script
of Jan. 28, recalls the “ each tone of our scale in itself is nought
;
It is everytvhere in the world” of Stanza VII. And “the mystic
three ”, which follows the phrase “ the heavenly harmony ” in
^liss Verrall’s script, recalls the “three sounds” of the same
stanza.
Myersp had apparently by using the phrase “ Hope Star and
Browning” shown knowledge of the script of Jan. 28; but
that fact in itself could be no more than a suggestive one,
unless he should subsequently connect “ Hope, Star and
^The word “sounds'’ occurs only twice in Abt Vogler, first in the sixth and
then in the seventh stanza. The phrase in the script “the broken sounds”
—
which does not exist in the poem but is clearly reminiscent of “the broken
arcs ” of stanza IX—suggests the three ideal sounds of Stanza VII, each of
which “in itself is nought” and which have to be combined before they
become significant, rather than the “sounds” of Stanza VI which were the
sounds made by Abt Vogler's organ.
328 ./. G. Piddivgton. [PAKT
Browning” with the Latin Message. Moreover, it might be
ai'gued that the greater part of the script of Jan 28 should
be ascribed to Mrs Verrall’s having subliminally concocted an
answer to the Latin Message.
Oi) the other hand it is impossible to regard the appearance
of the triangle within a circle as due to mere subliminal
invention; for that part of the script at least must have been
due to supernormally acquired knowledge of the circle and
triangle exi)eriment arranged at the sitting of Jan. 16
(v. p. 36). Again, the use of the letters A, B, C in the
drawing of the circle and triangle seemed to form a link
with the Latin Message. In the original draft in English the
letters A, B and C had been used to represent the three
automatists who were to coopei'ate in the complex experiment.
Mrs Verrall, as I have said, had seen the original draft and
consequently knew of this use of the letters A, B and C. But
nevertheless, and in spite also of its being a very natural thing
to use the letters A, B, C in a geometrical illustration of this sort,
the I'act remains that she did introduce them into a script wliich
she did not connect in any way with the Latin Message.^
Besides, the connection between the circle and triangle and the
preceding part of the script is so close that it would be
difficult to regard what precedes the geometrical figure as mere
subliminal romancing uninfluenced by any other mind than
the automatists own, while regarding (as 1 think we must) the
geometrical drawing as the result of some supernormal influence.
No doubt the reasons which I had at the time for inter-
preting Mrs Verrall’s script of Jan. 28 as an answer to the
Latin Message were slender, but they were even more slender
than they need have been because at this time I had not
realised the connection between Mrs Verrall’s script of Dec. 17,
1906,—witli its line ;
“ and the throbbing Soul
Saw through the sound the burning of the flame ”
:
1 Under the date of Feb. 12, 19U7 Mrs Verrall wrote in her diary as
follows;—“A card from J. G. P. this morning says that .... there is a
splendid success in my script of Jan. 28 What was good
on Jan. 28, I have no idea. The script was full of Browning—and wings
—
and oddly capjsed a wrong quotation from Abt Vogler by an explanatory
drawing, which showed that the idea was there but not the words.’’
329
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
so strongly suggestive of the star that is framed out of
sounds—and Miss Verrall’s script of Feb. 17 ;
nor had I then
realised, nor did I till April 1908 realise, that there existed
between Mrs Verrall’s scri[)t of Dec. 17 and her script of
Jan. 28 another subtle link.
As already mentioned (v. p. 310), the script of Dec. 17 con-
tains several reminiscences of Myers’s verse-translation of two
Greek Oracles (Essays. Class, pp. 97-100). In the first of
these occur the lines
:
“Throned on the whirling sphere, the astral fire.
Hid in whose heart thy whole creation lies,
—
The whole tvorld’s ivonder mirrored in thine eyes,
—
In the script of Jan. 28 the words :
“ the workl’s luonder ”
:
immediately precede and lead up to a quotation from The
Ring and., the Book—
“ And all a wonder and a wild desire ”
—
as if for the purpose of hitching on the script of Jan. 28 to that
of Dec. 17.
The coincidences between Mrs Verrall’s two scripts and Mi.ss
Verrall’s two scripts of Feb. 3 and Feb. 17 have been already
discussed in detail, so 1 need not reiterate them here. In view of
the fact that before Feb. 17 Mrs Verrall knew the interpretation
which I had put upon her script of Jan. 28, and in view also of
some very general information given to Miss Verrall on Feb. 15
about the script of Jan. 28,^ two of these coincidences, viz.
the references in Miss Verrall’s script of Feb. 17 to the “Star”
and to Browning—might easily be attributed to thought-
transference between Mi.ss Verrall and her mother. But Miss
Verrall’s script contains also coincidences with Mrs Verrall’s
script of Dec. 17, to which Mrs Verrall attached no significance
and of which Miss Verrall knew nothing. The latter script is
reminiscent not only of Myers’s translation of two Greek
ox’acles but also of Dryden’s Hymn for St. Cecilia’s Day. Now
the “ heavenly harmony ” of Miss Verrall’s script is an actual
quotation from that poem of Dryden’s ;
and the script of
Dec. 17 contains the word “harmony” twice, and, though it
'For full particulars v. p. 67.
330 ./. G. Ficldington. [PAKT
does not contain the word “ heavenly ”, the harmony which
is the subject of it is clearly a “heavenly harmony”. Common
to both scripts also are the words “ diapason ” (which likewise
occurs in Dryden’s poem) and “Mystic”; and neither word
occurs elsewhere in either script dining the period under
review.
Before, then, the next reference to the Latin Message was
made in the trance, on February 19, I had become impressed, I
may even say, obsessed, with the idea that Mrs Verrall’s
script of Jan. 28^—which had on Feb. 11 been described in the
trance by Myersp as “ FLope, Star and Browniug”—was an
attempt by Mjmrsy to give by means of indirect allusions to
Stanza VII of Aht Voghr an intelligent answer to the Latin
Message ;
and I was naturally anxious to see whether Myersp
would say anything in support of this interpretation.
On Feb. 19 Hodgsoiip asked me to repeat some of the Latin
to him and also to his “ old friend George ”, i.e. Geoi'ge Pelham,
who henceforth cooperates with Hodgsonp and Myersp in their
effort to understand and reply to the Message. I repeated
Diversis—committis; and afterwards Hodgsoiip asked for “the
next to the last word ” i.e. jamducliim to be repeated. I told
him that the first syllable is “spelt like the English word
‘jam’—preserves”, and he replied: “Oh yes, I understand.
Marmalade. . . . That has been the most difficult word for
him [i.e. Myersp] to understand ”. I then repeated id nec fallit
—'prohamus.
On Feb. 20 the first attempt to reidy was made, as Myersp
had promised on Feb. 13.
(Present: E. M. S. and J. G. P.
)
(Myers communicating.)
The idea 1 got was that I should be a Messenger and pass
on to you the same intelligent U.D. now in my
present life It is wdth reference to my—[illegible
word, perhaps “ interest ”] my being a messenger
and my handing through to you on your side coherent
and — — [two illegible words i]
messages
^Undecipherable words are rare in the script; but an unusual proportion
unfortunately occurred in the more important references to the Latin Message.
LVII.] ^1 Series of Concordant Aidomatisms. 331
J. C4. P. “Coherent and” something?
as I am the Messenger.
I will go over my utterances again
J. G. P. Yes.
and repeat them here to you. ... I wish I might go over
the whole subject with you again. ... I do not leave
simply because I
Is the light not clear or the machine working well ?
J. G. P. The machine is all right ;
but the light is perhaps not good ;
so perhaps you had better defer your answer to the
Latin Message until the third after coming [i.e. "Wednes-
day, Feb. 27.] ... .
But it would ... be wiser not to refer to C.C. [i.e. cross-
corresponding] messages the time before . . . Because
v,-e get these on our minds and cant easily avoid making
references to them.
Soon after this I advised that the sitting should be brought
to a close earlier than usual, as Mrs Piper, who had been
suflering from indigestion and sleeplessness, was not well.
In this first attempt to reply there are only three points
needing comment: (1) Myersp seems to have applied ihe> inter
-
nuntiis (dative plural of internuntiiis, a mediator, messenger
or go-between) of the Latin Message, which there is used to
mean mediums or automatists, to himself;
(2) “Coherent” may possibly represent invicem inter se
respondentia : but the word is so often used in English to
mean “ intelligible ” without any strict notion of interrelation
that no stress can be laid ou its use by Myersp.
(3)
“ Handing through ” would accurately enough translate
committis.
On Feb. 25 Rector said that next time he would bring George
Pelham with Myers in order to hear the Latin repeated; and
asked me to repeat for Myers “ the words after quod in first
sentence” (i.e. invicem): which I proceeded to do. Later, at
the request of Hodgsoup, I repeated inter se—consilium id.
On Feb. 26 I first asked Hodgson p to tell Mjmrs that Mrs
Verrall had drawn a triangle within a circle; and then, in
332 [part
J. G. Picldington.
accordance with the arrangement made on Feb. 25, I repeated
Diversis—prohamus. Quod was greeted with the remark,
“Yes. I know what?”, and jamdudmn with “I understand
that”. Diversis—prohamtis was towards the close of the sitting
again repeated.
On Feb. 27 Myersp at the very beginning of the sitting made
his second attempt to reply :
—
(Present: J. G. P. alone.)
(Myers communicating)
Goodmorning my good fellow .... I am M3'ers. we
were to meet and repl}' to each other this day 1
J. G. P. Yes. . . .
I felt a little perturbed over your message to me when you
said I — [illegible word. From subsequent versions of
the reply it is clear that the word “ failed ”, or an
equivalent word, was intended] in replying sufficiently
to convince you etc. although I as intermediary had long
since united my ideas etc.
J. G. P. Is the word after “ replying
” “ sufficiently ” ?
not or so as to convince you etc.
.J. G. P. What comes after “ etc ” 1
I as intermediary had long since united ideas etc.
J. G. P. “I as intermediary” is it?
Yes or Messenger.
J. G. P. “had by” what? (misreading “long” as “by”)
assimilated
.J. G. P. I am sorry. I can’t read.
united or assimilated ....
Now I believe that since j'ou sent this message to me I
have sufficiently replied to your various questions to con-
vince the ordinary scientific mind that I am at least a
fragment of the once incarnate individual whom jmu called
Myers. Is it not so ?
lvil]
a Series of Concordant A utomatisms. 333
J. G. P. Yes, Myers. (Spoken in a tone not implying assent to the
question, but merely a non-committal encouragement to
the communicator to go on with his remarks.)
Do you U.D. from my first utterances that I at all U.D.
your messages 1
J. G. P. I believe I understand perfectly ;
but I have to play the
part of a stupid person who has to have everything ex-
plained to him.
Oh I see your point. Well as far as I could U.D. and I
may have to think it over again. What you said [‘ was
this ’
must be supplied]
Although you as intermediary have long since united mutu-
ally ideas. You have or do not reply or respond
sufficiently to our questions as to convince us of your
existence etc. Is it not U.D.? . . .
J. G. P. “ united mutual ideas ” 1
mutually our ideas. . . .
J. G. P. Yes, “ mutually ”. Is it “ our ideas ” ?
ideas is correct.
J. G. P. Not “ our ” 1
(Hand makes a gesture which clearly meant “ No, not
‘our’.”)
You must take into consideration the second intermediary.
Rector. Viz Rector.^
J. G. P. I want to go on reading over. “You have or do not reply”
—
So as to convince us . . Is it not U.D.
1 The words “viz Rector” were certainly inserted in order to avoid a risk
of confusion. As a general rule to remarks made by Rector on his own
initiative “R” or “Rector” is appended; and this plan was adopted so that
Rector’s remarks might not get confused with those of the communicating
spirit. In this case, had the explanation “viz Rector” not been added, it
would hav^e remained doubtful whether the words “you must take into con-
sideration the second intermediary ”
were to be attributed to Myersp or to
Rector. Its addition makes it clear that the speaker of the words was Myersp,
and that by “the second intermediary” Rector was meant.
334 J. G. Fiddington. [part
J. G. P. I see. Will you wait a moment 1 (After a pause) You say
you have replied. I’m quite prepared to believe it
;
but tell me in what messages your reply is given.
In my messages reported here and through Mrs Verrall.
•J. G. P. That agrees with what I thought. But give, not necessarily
all the message or messages, but some ijiiportant point from
them.
One was. when I referred to the poems the others 1st to
the Halceon days and evangelic etc etc ....
J. G. P. (reading over) “ The others first to the Halceon days ”
—
Evangical [no trace of ‘
el ’]
J. G. P. And “ Evangelical ”.
etc etc. I said.
J. G. P. “Evangelical” is right 1
It is it helps to combine the ideas.
.J. G. P. And “ Halcyon days ” comes in also 1
Yes.
J. G. P. Anything else ?
Let me remind you of my reference to the shrub.
J. G. P. “ Shrub ” ?
Yes and this all helps to combine the ideas as conjointly
given through Mrs Verrall . . . and this light.
J. G. P. Yes, Myers, I understand you ;
but I don’t understand the
reference to a shrub.
syringa syr
J. G. P. “Syringa”. Oh! yes. I want you to go on recalling any
other relevant messages.
One I recall, clearly and that one was with reference to
the Poems and cross corresponding messages
J. G. P. Yesl
as given by myself through Mrs Verrall
lyil] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 335
J. G. P. Tell me—remember I have to plaj" the part of the stupid
person —tell me what poems.
B
my own
B rowning
J. G. P. Yes. Well 1
I wish to get this clear.
J. G. P. Y"es, take as much time as you like.
Horace.
J. G. P. Yes ?
got my last utterance 1 if so repeat it.
J. G. P. The last things written are “ B mj^ own Browning. I wish
this clear. Horace.”
Yes chiefly Browning.
J. G. P. (interrupting, thinking that the sentence was completed)
Y"^es. Well, tell me more.
s lines (Hand points first to “s” and then to “Browning”)
J. G. P. “ Browning’s lines ”.
yes.
J. G. P. Yes ?
as given through Mrs Verrall and another which I referred
to before. I think I will not give that to day.
J. G. P. Y^es ;
thank you very much. I think you are making it
clear ;
but I want you to make it completely clear.
I wish this more than you do
J. G. P. I think if you can get through a clear and complete answer
to my Latin Message you will have forged a new and
strong link in the chain of evidence for survival of
bodily death
I U.D. that you asked me to reply referring to ni}^
utterances through Mrs Verrall
336 J. G. Piddington. [pakt
J. G. P. Now I think you’ve done enough for to-day in the
matter of replying to the Latin Message. But I want
you to make your reply so clear and precise that the
sceptic will not be able to say the coincidence which
undoul)tedly exists between the Latin Message and your
reply to it is due to chance.
MyeiSp then said he would like to go over the last sentence
of the Latin again while George Pelham is present to help ;
and that he wished to continue his reply on the following
Wednesday, March 6. I then repeated Unum — explicetur
twice.
I now quote the record again :
—
J. G. P. I want to say that you have, I believe, given an answer
worthy of your intelligence—not today, I mean, but
some time back—but the interpretation must not be
mine. You must explain your answer at this light.
Yes.
J. G. P. You could do it in two words. ^
Yes. I U.D.
J. G. P. AYell ?
Hope Star
J. G. P. Well 1 Y"es ?
^Did I by using the exijression “in two words” give a clue? If so, I did it
quite unwittingly. I used “in two words” not strictly but in the conventional
sense of “in a few words”. I never did, and never should have thought of
“Browning, Hope and Star” as two words but as three. Myersp had already
before this said that his reply had been given in part through Mrs Verrall
;
and to this I was alluding when I said ; “ you have given an answer ....
some time back—but . . .
you must explain your answer at this light ”. Even
if we suppose that Myersp could guess from this remark that the answer was
contained in one of the successful cross-correspondences between Mrs Piper
and Mrs Verrall, why should he have pitched on a cross-correspondence con-
sisting of three words when by this time the trance-personalities had been
informed of the success of another cross-correspondence which, unlike “Browning
Hope and Star”, could be naturally summed up in two words, namely, “triangle
circle ” ?
When I said the answer could be given “in two words”, i.e. in a few words,
I had in my mind some such answer as this; “The poem I gave to Mrs
Verrall contains a verse applicable to the Latin Message”.
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms. 337
Browning.
J. G. P. Exactly. It couldn’t be better.
That is my answer.
J. G. P. Now, Myers, I can’t thank you enough. That is what I
have been waiting for.
Well what I wished was to translate the whole message
for you into English. But from (?) your kindness in
replying to my request in repeating the whole of the
last sentence so that each word reached my U.D.
[understanding] clearly and concisely I am able with
Pelhams help to reply today
J. G. P. Translate into English certainly, if you like. But now I
want to say two things, and then we ought to stop.
First, I want to thank you most sincerely for the trouble
you’ve taken.
let me in return thanks [sic] to you for your kindness and
Patience in Repeating again and again to good old
Rector who does not U.D. a word of Latin.
J. G. P. Yes. ... In telling me that “ Browning, Hope and a
Star ” contains your answer to the Latin Message you
have given an answer which to me is both intelligible
and clear; but still I should like you to bring out one
more point still, so as to leave no doubt in anyone’s
mind of your meaning.
My STAR.
EV
E
J. G. P. “ E-v-e ” ?
E V L
J. G. P. “E-Y-L”?
E V E L
y
J. G. P. “y ” or “G”?
Y
838 J. G. Picldington. [part
I am too [weak] to tell it today.
My thoug'hts wander goodbye
God be with you . . . listen ...
J. G. P. Yes.
I gave Mrs Verrall Laurel wreath.
J. G. P. Yes, quite right ;
she got it.
(For the sequel v. p. 96.)
On March 4 Myer.Sp, who spontaneously introduced the
subject, alluded to Mrs YeiTall’s question about an Ode of
Horace as follows :
—
(Present : J. G. P. and Miss Newton)
(Myers communicating)
I tried my good fellow to make my thoughts clear to you
about my difficulty in replying to Mrs V’s question about
Horace did you U.D.
J. G. P. (who has misread “I tried” as “I told”) No. What “good
fellow ” do you mean 1 Hodgson 1
No I am talking to you
I told P. [i.e. Rector] to say for me
J. G. P. (interrupting) No ;
I did not understand.
that I could not reply for some time about Horace.
J. G. P. Yes ;
all right.
did he [i.e. Rector] refer to it at all ?
J. G. P. Not so far as I remember. Horace was said to be con-
nected with your answer to the Latin Message.
that is not so. it came to my mind while speaking that
I had not replied to it but in my desire to
reply to your message doubtless there was some confusion.
J. G. P. I quite understand now.
this may make it clear.
J. G. P. I quite understand the confusion about Horace [i.e. “ your
explanation of the confusion ”.]
lyil] 339
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
The connection of Horace with the reply to the Latin Message
made on Feb. 27 is here clearly and spontaneously stated to
have been made in error. It will appear later how extremely
significant was this mixing up of Horace wdth the reply to
the Latin Message.
On March 6 Myersp said that he had tried to give a triangle
within a circle to Mrs Verrall; Hodgsonp having apparently
forgotten to inform him, as on Feb. 26 I had requested him
to do, of its appearance in Mrs Verrall’s script. I thereupon
asked Myersp if he could remember when he tried to give
the circle and triaogle to Mrs Verrall or what other words,
if any, he had made Mrs Verrall write at the same time.
No immediate reply was made to this question, and MyerSp
went on to mention other things with which he had tried
to impress Mrs Verrall, and among them “Del Sarto”. I
then asked Rector to tell Myersp that he had been successful
in making Mrs A^errall draw a triangle within a circle. From
this point I quote the record :
—
(Present : J. G. P. alone)
(Rector communicating)
he [i.e. Myers] will be very glad to U.D. that the triangle
came through as he did see the circle but could not be
sure absolutely of the whole triangle.
... he also wrote something about Bird.
J. G. P. Yes, quite. [This merely meant that I understood what
was written.]
did you U.D. it. as it came outl He wishes to know.
J. G. P. He has written about a bird, and I think I understand
;
but I want him to explain.
Oh yes. He says he did say Bird and Paradise . . and
something else I dont quite U.D. ATait until he rests
and I will get it clearer'
J. G. P. I am in no hurry.
(George Pelham communicating)
Good morning are you the gentleman whom Hodgson calls
Piddington ?
340 ./. G. Piddingion. [part
J. G. P. Yes.
I am Pelham.
J. G. P. I’m very glad to see you.
did you get what you wanted ^
J. G. P. What about 1
that message.
J. G. P. The Latin 1
yes quite.
J. G. P. I think the answer is clear, but I want
—
Did he [i.e. Myers] tell you about My Star.
J. G. P. He did. Can you explain about “My Star’”?
Yes it was a poem he had on his mind of Brownings.
J. G. P. And why had he this poem on his mind '?
he said Because it was one of his test experiments with a
lady in the body to whom he refers as V.
J. G. P. I understand. Thank you.
and he also had another
Evelyn
E V E L Y N Hope.
J. G. P. Is that the explanation of the word which came out here
—
Yes
J. G. P. as “Evangelical”?
Y^s
J. G. P. I begin to see. Thank you.
it was very stupid of Rector I must say as Hodgson and
Myers both kept Repeating it over and over again to him.
I U.D. your latin message very well
J. G. P. Well, will you show me that you understand it ?
lvil] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 341
Yes certainly you said in order to convince you he should
repeat a message not only through this lady Mrs V but
it should be reproduced here
the message began like this.
although you have for some time been uniting different
ideas
J. G. P. What is the word after ‘
for some time been ’
?
Uniting or assimilating ideas.
J. G. P. Yes. Will you go on!
. . .
you fail to convince the world or me of your individual
or independent
(Hand hesitates)
J. G. P. “existence,” you mean?
(Hand assents)
J. G. P. Well, please go on.
Now if you can give a clear message through Mrs V. and
reproduce it here it will do more to convince or it
will . . .
greatly help to convince the world of your
continued existence, this was the idea as I received it.
you must give [i.e. make] allowances on (hand hesitates)
for its being made comprehensible liere ... to you.
J. G. P. That answer is nearly right ;
but I did not say that Myers
had failed to convince me or the world of his continued
existence.
No not exactly that, but the idea was that if he trans-
lated the message it would convince.
J. G. P. It was certainly in my mind that if he could do something
suggested in my message that it would add support to
the evidence of survival of bodily death.
Yes I U.D. perfectly And the answer was that
he had given a message. Viz Browning Star hope,
J. G. P. Yes.
and reproduced it here .... Now if this answer does
not establish to your mind a proof that I U.D. your
message give me Straightforth your reason. . . .
342 J. G. Piddington. [part
J. G. P. You have very nearly answered it correctly. You show, that
is, a general knowledge of the meaning of the Message
;
but one special point you have not brought out
isnt it in reference to a special utterance.
J. G. P. Yes ? What is in reference ?
the point I fail to bring, [out] . . .
J. G. P. Well, will you go on 1
Of course. It referse [sic] to a special point which I had
failed to bring out here and which had been given there,
[i.e. through Mrs VerralL] ....
J. G. P. Yes, Mr Pelham, let me tell you what I thiidc. I do believe
that Myers has answered the message clearly ^ and
intelligently through the other light ;
but he has not
shown through this light that he has done so.
let me see if I get jmur point clearly. You mean you wish
him to reply to one point here as clearly as he did at
the other light.
J. G. P. Yes.
was the same message given to her 1 do I U.D. and he
O O
replied to it there as he did not here is that what I
am to U.D.
J. G. P. Not quite. Let me explain again. Myers, so I think, gave
an answer to the Latin Message to the lady—to the
other light
—
Mrs V.
J. G. P. Yes; to Mrs Verrall. The answer he gave to Mrs Verrall
was clever, ingenious and characteristic ;
but though
Myers has referred to that here, he has not made it
clear here why this answer which he gave to Mrs
Verrall was so appropriate.
Oh I now U.D. . . .
should not have said “clearly”; “allusively” would have expressed my
real meaning.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 343
George Pelham then said he would explain the position to
Myers, and asked me to “ repeat once again the lines in Latin
”
which referred to the special point. I accordingly repeated
Umim accesserit—explicetur. The record then continues as
follows :
—
J. G. P. One word before you go. As I said before, I believe Myers
has given a reply to Mrs Verrall which shows he has
grasped all the points of my Latin Message j
but I
want him to show here why this message which he gave
to Mrs Verrall furnishes so good an answer.
(Myers communicating)
I am again with you my friend and you will U.D. that,
as I U.D. you. I will reply as Mr Pelham suggests to
the best of my knowledge.
(Rector communicating)
I U.D. it was a cross correspondence message, and to her
[i.e. Mrs Verrall] I gave the same words
J. G.P. WelH
that I brought out here.^
J. G. P. Weill
as the poem was one I knew him [i.e Myers] to give me.
J. G. P. “As the” whatl
(Myers communicating)
Poem of my friend’s. [Browning was a friend of Frederic
Myers’s.]
J. G. P. (reading over) “ I knew him to give me ” 1
(Rector communicating) he gave me. R.
J. G. P. I don’t quite follow ;
but let’s go on. I can read the
words.
Oh but you do not U.D. his meaning! R.
^ Rector is here represented as playing the same part of amanuensis or
intermediary for the ‘Myers’ personality in his communications through Mrs
Verrall as he plays in Mrs Piper’s trance. In other instances Prudens is
represented in Mrs Piper’s trance as assisting the ‘Myers’ personality to
communicate through Mrs Verrall. In Mrs Verrall’s script likewise Rector
and Prudens are represented as assisting Myersy to communicate.
344 J. G. Piddington. [part
J. G. P. No, perhaps I don’t. Will he rewrite 1
(Myers communicating)
I told Rector to tell you. that I U.I). and replied saying it
was the poem in which Hope and S ar [sic] came out.
J. G P. “ Hope and Star ” ?
(Hand assents)
Yes I told Rector.
J. G. P. Yes ?
about this but I shall go over it again very carefully and
tell how I happened to think specially of that poem
J. G. P. That is just what I want, Myers.
Yes I know it.
J. G. P. Don’t trouble about it now. On the third after coming
[i.e. Wednesday, March 13] I’ll talk with you alone.
Now we ought to be stopping.
On March 11 Rector, immediately after the usual greeting,
wrote ;
“ Myers said my love always and with it I send ”
—
here followed a drawing which was doubtless meant for a
circle and a trianp'le, though the second figure is more like
a sc|uare. I then asked Myersp what he meant by this
drawing, and he said he would explain “ on the third ” : i.e.
on Wednesday, March 13. I also asked if be would explain
“ Del Sarto ” which had been given on March G without any
explanation of what it meant. This also Myersp promised to
do on March 13.
On March 13, after the first drawing of a bar (v. p. 153),
Myersp spontaneously returned to the subject of the Latin
Message as follows :
—
(Present: J. G. P. alone)
(Myers communicating)
1 U.D. your reference to the poem, in your latin message
to me which, led me to refer to Browning, and the
circle gave me a better U.D. [i.e. ‘understanding’] of it
as it came to me through this light. ... (A circle
was then drawn.)
lvil] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 345
J. G. P. Yes.
Circle
J. G. P. Yes.
I gave or helped Mrs Y— to draw it . . . and signed my
name to it.
J. G. P. Yes.
After allusions to Crossing the Bar, “
Steeple ” and other
matters, Myersp again spontaneously returned to the subject
of the Latin Message :
—
Now I thought the circle would complete my U.D. of the
message. M.
J. G. P. I see a meaning in what you say, but that does not make
it quite clear.
reread the part where you refer to the poem.
J. G. P. You mean in my Latin Message? One moment. (Then as
hand starts to write) 'Well ?
Ring (followed by a drawing of a circle and a triangle)
J. G. P. Circle and triangle ?
Yes.
J. G. P. What does “ Ring ” mean 1
(Hand points from the word “Ring” to the circle)
J. G. P. The Latin Message does not refer
—
(interrupting) not exactly to a poem I know but it sug-
gested a poem to my mind
Hence B H. S. etc. [i.e. Browning, Hope, Star, etc]
J. G. P. Yes, very good, very good. But make that clearer. What
exact passage did it suggest ? Don’t answer now unless
you like.
It suggested it so strongly I rushed oft’ to Mrs V. gave it
her rushed back here and although you did not U.D.
it. at the time you did later
J. G. P. Yes; that’s quite right.
if I remember rightly.
346 J. G. Piddington. [part
The subject was then dropped until I reopened it in the
following way ;
—
J. G. F. Myers, don’t thiidv me very persistent
—
I am glad to [in error for “you”] are it keeps me interested
therefore helps me greatly.
J. G. P. about getting an answer to the Latin Message ;
but you
have got so many very good things through that I believe
you are capable of making your answer clearer than you
have made it so far.
Yes. I think I can get your idea and when it is quite
clear to me I shall give my answer you may be sure.
I believe I get a glimmer of what you wish ... it remind
[in eiTor for “ reminded ”] me of a passage very familiar,
when I was in the body and I mentioned (a circle was
then drawn) as being a connecting link
J. G. P. I see what you mean.
yes all right
•J. G. P. Directly I realised what message given by you to Mrs Verrall
was meant by the words “Browning—Hope—Star”,
I saw what an excellent answer you had given to the
Latin Message. But though the words “ Browning—-Hope
—Star ” clearly enough describe the message in question
which you gave to Mrs. Verrall, you have never so far
made it dear through this light why the passage given to
Mrs Verrall and described here as “ Browning, Hope
and Star ” furnishes an excellent answer to the Latin
IMessage.
Poem 1
J. G. P. Yes.
I U.D. she got it in my answer but I did not give it here 1
Is that it is that what you say ?
J. G. P. What I mean is this :
—
When you gave it through Mrs
Verrall you made a detailed reference to a particular
passage. You have not made such a detailed reference
here. Will you give it here also 1
Oh yes I U.D.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant AiUomatisms. 3-1-7
J. 6. P. I want you to give more details through this light.
I see and U.D. now what you wish me to repeat or
J. G. P. Not necessarily to repeat.
give more words perhaps.
I U.D. and will go over it and do so.
J. G. P. All right. Thank you very much.
I for the first time clearly U.D. your special point, you
have at last me me U.D. [in error for “made me
U.D.”] I am glad to say.
J. G. P. Will you give your answer to Mrs Sidgwick, as I shan’t
meet you for a good many Sabbaths [i.e. weeks].
The .sitting of March 13 was the last at which I was
present. Mrs Sidgwick took over the management of the
subsequent sittings, and the conduct of the Latin Message
experiment passed into her hand,s. This accordingly seems
to be a convenient point at which to interrupt the account of
the progress of the experiment in order to discuss the extracts
quoted above from the sittings held between Feb. 19 and
March 13.
I will deal first with the question of how far the ti’ance-
])ersonalities gave proof of understanding any of the ])hrases,
or individual words of the Latin Message.
The general meaning of the word intermmtiis^ was, I
think, unmistakably known to Myersp, though its special
application in the Latin Message was not, for he wrongly
applied it to him.self, mistaking apparently the dative plural
internuntiis for the nominative singular internuntius. In his
first and second reply accordingly he represents himself as the
“intermediary”, whereas in the Message the mediums are the
“ intermediaries ”.
Equally unmistakable is the comprehension shown both by
Myersp and George Pelham of the word jamdudum, wdiich
they respectively translated “ long since ” and “ for some
time ”.
^ Lewis and Short define it as one who ‘
serves as a messenger or mediator
between two parties or persons ;
a mediator, messenger, go-between ’.
348 J. G. Plddington. [part
The meaning of invicem is likewise con-ectly expressed by
the word “mutually”. It is noticeable that siiecial trouble
seems to have been taken with these two words, jamdudum
and invicem. On Feb. 19 Hodgsotip asked for jamdudum to
be repeated and then explained that it had been the hardest
word to understand. This repetition of the word on Feb. 19
seems to have been effectual, for when it was repeated on
Feb. 26 it was met with the remark “1 understand rhat”.
Similarly invicem was singled out for repetition by itself on
Feb. 25 ;
and on the following day when Myersp made his
second attempt to reply he used the word “ mutually ”
:
whereas in his first reply he had not done so.
My pronunciation of the word quod on Feb. 26 was greeted
with the remark “Yes, I know. ‘What?’” Quod has this
interrogative sense, but in the Latin Message it is used as a
relative. The phrases used on Feb. 27 and March 6, “Although
I as intermediary” and “Although you have been for some
time uniting different ideas ”, suggest, however, very forcibly
that the trance-personalities understood quod to mean
“ although ”.
Peiliaps the phrase used on March 6, “ you fail to convince
the world ” etc., represents a bad shot at the meaning of
f(dlit.
As already suggested, the phrase “ handing through ” used
on Feb. 20 may represent committis, which was used in the
Latin Message to mean “ entrust ” or “ deliver ”. But the phrases
subsequently employed—“ united ” or “ assimilated ideas ”, “ been
uniting different ideas”, “combine the ideas conjointly given”
—have every appearance of representing another ti’ansla-
tion of the word. Committere is used by Latin authors
—
both prose-writers and poets—to mean “ to join together ”,
“ to combine ”, “ to connect ” or “ to unite ”
;
though this sense
of the word is not found in Cicero, and the style of the
Latin Message is Ciceronian. Still, the trance-personalities
were not informed that the Latin was Ciceronian, and if
they gave committis an un-Ciceronian sense they were not to
blame. If, as I have suggested, internuntiis was understood
as internuntius and if committis was taken to mean “ unite ”,
it explains the translation given in the trance : “ you as
LVII.] 349
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
intermediary {intermmtius) have long since {jamdudum)
united (eomniittis) mutually ideas {invicem inter se respon-
dentia) ”d
But, if it is admitted, as I think it will be, that the
trance-personalities realised that the Message concerned cross-
con’espondences, the translations which they gave are susceptible
of the following alternative explanations:—Unaware, as I have
said, that the style of the Latin Message was severely classical,
they may have thought that we had by conjoining inter
(“ between ”) and nuntium (“ a message ”) concocted a word to
represent “ cross-correspondences Diversis internuntiis would,
on this supposition, mean “ by means of various cross-corre-
sponding messages”, and the first sentence, if quod be omitted,
might then be translated thus :
“ By means of various cross-
corresponding messages you have long since united mutually
ideas”; and this translation except for the first four words
resembles that given in the trance, and the first four words
are closely represented by the phrase used by Myersp on
Feb. 27: “this all helps to combine the ideas as conjointly
given through Mrs Verrall and this light
If the translations given in the trance are to be explained
in this way, then we must suppose either that the phrase
“ I as messenger or intermediary ” was a first and incorrect
translation, perhaps, as will appear directly, afterwards recti-
fied; or that in using this phrase MyerSp was merely
paraphrasing instead of translating, and bringing out the
point that he was the messenger or intermediary to whose
agency the combination of ideas in the various cross-corre-
sponding messages was due.
In order to complete this discussion of how far individual
Latin words or phrases were understood by the trance-person-
alities I quote here out of their chronological order two extracts
from the final versions of the Latin Message given at the sitting
of June 2:—“You have long since been trying to assimilate
ideas one with another” ;
and “ For a long time you have been
assimilating ideas one with another through different lights”.
^At the time the sittings were in progress I did not know that committere
could have the sense of “to unite” or “combine”; so it was not from my
consciousness that this information was acquired.
350 [part
J. G. Pidclington.
Both versions seem to give in the words “ ideas one with
another” an adequate translation of “ invicem inter se respon-
dentia”; and in the final version “through different lights”
may represent “ diversis internuntiis
The only words, then, of the Latin Message of wliich a
translation appeared in the communications were Diversis inter-
mintiis quod invicem inter se respondentia jamdudum com-
mittis ;
as for the remainder of the Latin I find no trace in
the trance-script or trance-speech of Mrs Piper of a translation
or paraphrase of it.
But it must be remembered—thouo’h once or twice during
the progress of the ex|)eriment I myself lost sight of the fact
—that Myersp was asked not to furnish a translation but to
give such an answer as would show that he had grasped the
purport of the Message.
The next points to consider are these:—Did Myersp in
his replies display knowledge of the meaning of (a) the
first sentence, (b) of the second senteiice, of the Latin
Message.
As regards (a). the replies made by MyerSp on Feb. 27, and
by George Pelham on March 6, place it beyond any reasonable
doubt that they understood that the subject of the Latin
Message was cross-con-espondences, that it contained a refer-
ence to cross-corres])ondences which had in the past been
engineered by Myers, and that something further remained to
1)6 done.
But, a critic might urge, even if this be admitted, it does
not follow that the discovery of the subject with which the
Message was generally concerned was due to supernormal
acquisition of knowledge ;
the experimenters by frequently
speaking in the most open manner of cross-corres])ondences
and impressing on the trance-personalities the importance which
they attached to them gave away the secret which the}^
inefiecti vely sought to veil in the obscurity of a language
unknown to Mrs Piper. This may be true, but at any rate
the procedure adopted by the experimenters was deliberate
and in part designed to throw the trance-personalities off the
scent. The conduct of a seiies of cross-correspondence experi-
ments was the chief object for which we had invited Mrs
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 351
Piper to England^; and of this object it was accordingly neces-
sary to inform the trance-personalities. To speak quite openly
and unrestrainedly on the subject of cross-correspondences on
the one hand, and on the other to show both by our action
and our words that we were anxious to render the subject of
the Latin Message unascertainable in any normal manner,
seemed to be the best method of concealing the fact that the
two subjects were in any way allied.
The reply of Myersp on Feb. ‘17, in my opinion, shows
acquaintance not only with the thoughts actually expi’essed
in the Latin Message, but with the line of thought by which
Miss Johnson and myself had been actuated when we planned
the experiment. This line of thought may be briefly expressed
as follows :
—
The phenomena of several automatists known to us—but
especially those of Mrs Verrall and Mrs Holland—exhibit
simple instances of cross-correspondence, and also cross-corre-
spondences of a more complex and less direct type. These
latter grow more elaborate as time goes on, and exhibit the
appearance of being due to the action of a third mind. But
though they do furnish fairly strong fa.cie evidence of
the intervention of a third mind, we are of opinion that to
exclude the theory of telepathy between the minds of the
automatists, we ought to obtain a series of cross-corresponding
messages so obscurely and remotely connected that the con-
nection between them shall not be apparent to us until it
has been revealed by means of a third message given through
a third automatist.
I think that a certain amount of agreement can be traced
between what Miss Johnson and I had been thinking- and
what Myersp said on Feb. 27: “I felt a little perturbed over
your message to me when you said I failed (?) in replying
sufficiently to convince you etc. although I as intermediary
had long since united my ideas. Now I believe that since
you sent this message to me I have sufficiently replied to
your various questions to convince the ordinary scientific
mind that I am at least a fragment of the once incarnate
^ Mrs Piper iu her normal state was given no hint of what our chief
object w'as.
352 J. G. Piddington. [part
individual whom you called Myers.” Now we had in reality
tliought, though we did not say so in the Latin Message,
that the concordant communications from ‘
Myers ’
in Mrs
Verrall’s and Mrs Holland’s scripts, though extremely sug-
gestive, were, owing to the lack of the qualities explained
above, insufficient to establish the operation of a third mind.
Like Oliver Twist we wanted more, but we also wanted
something better as well. Tliat was the thought behind the
Latin Message, and the words of Myersp just quoted, though
they may only represent a misunderstanding of id nec fallit
nos consilium, perhaps suggest that he was vaguely aware
of it.
(b) But though Myersp may have apprehended this much,
is there any evidence to show that he understood the nature
of the “something better”, namely, of the complex type of
cross-correspondence described in the second sentence of the
Latin Message ?
O
There is certainly no direct evidence to this effect. Indeed,
so far as the actual language of the trance- personalities goes,
the evidence points the other way. Thus on March 6 George
Pelham said ;
“ You .said in order to convince you he [i.e. Myers]
should repeat a message not only through Mrs V. but it should
be reproduced here” [i.e. through Mrs Piper]; and, “if you
can give a clear message through Mrs V. and reproduce it here
”
etc.; and MyerSp on May 7 (v. p. 392) said: “give it [i.e. ‘out of
three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but a star’] to
my friend [i.e. J.G.P.] and tell him this is my final answer
to his request for a definite C C message”; and again on
May 27 :
“ He [i.e. J.G.P.] wished me to give a message through
Mrs Verrall and this light [i.e. Mrs Piper] concerning the
S(xme subject; and this was his me.ssage to me in Latin ^
^ There are, however, two passages where the language suggests that
Myersr was aware that “Browning Hope and Star” was a cryptic summary
rather than a straightforward verbal reproduction of what Mrs Verrall had
written. The first occurs in the sitting of March 6: —Rector said: “I under-
stood it was a cross-correspondence message, and to her [i.e. Mrs Verrall] I
gave the same words that I brought out here ;
as the poem was one I knew
him [i.e. Myers] to give me”. Not realising at the time that Myersp and
Rector were at this point communicating in rapid alternation, and failing in
consequence to apply the various pronouns correctly, I did not grasp the sense
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 353
The expressions “ repeat ”, “ reproduce ”, “ a clear message ”,
“a definite C.C. message” and “a message . . . concerning the
the same subject” apply to simple forms of cross-correspondence
but not to the complex form of them described in the Latin
Message. Neither mere repetition nor reproduction, nor clear-
ness nor definiteness was what we asked for.
But if the trance-personalities really thought that what we
asked for was the simple reproduction of the same word or
phrase or idea through two or more automatists why did they
throughout consistently give “Browning, Hope and Star”, and
that only, as embodying the successful execution of the experi-
ment which we had asked them to pei’form ?
It was on Feb. 27 that Myersp first stated that “ Browning
Hope and Star ” constituted his reply to the Latin Message.’-
Befoi’e this statement was made the trance-personalities had
been informed of the success of four cross-correspondence experi-
ments : viz. of “ Library, my own name and Mrs Sidgwick’s
”
and of “Browning, Hope and Star” on Feb. 12; of “Arrow”
on Feb. 25; and of “a triangle within a circle” on Feb. 26.
If they thought that all they had to do in order to make a
successful reply to the Latin Message was to bring off a simple
cross-correspondence, why did they pitch on “ Browning Hope
and Star ” rather than on one of the other successes ? Again
why did they mention “ Browning Hope and Star” only, instead
of giving all four as examples of their execution of the test
asked for in the Message ? And why, again, when later on
they were informed of other successful cross-correspondences,
did they still confine themselves to citing “ Browning Hope and
Star ” as their sole answer ?
of the above passage. So Myersp, partly in order to put me on the right
track, and partly, I think, in order to modify Rector’s statement that he
had given the same -words to Mrs Verrall as he had brought out through
Mrs Piper, intervened with the remark: “I told Rector to tell you that I
understood and replied saying it loas the poem in which Hope and
came out”.
The second passage occurs in the sitting of April 8 (v. p. 364, in the course
of which MyerSp said :
“ I at once went to Mrs V. and wrote out these lines,
and I returned here and cpioted a few fragments of the poem ”.
1 It should be noted that lie did this immediately after having requested me to
repeat the second sentence of the Latin Message.
Z
354 [part
J. G. Fiddington.
If, howevei’, in spite of their inability to make plain in words
their comprehension of the request contained in the Message,
the trance-personalities did I'eally understand it, then their
choice of “ Browning, Hope and Star ” becomes at once intelli-
gible ;
for it was the first cross-correspondence of a complex
type which occury^ed in the seiies of expyeriments carried on
between Mrs Piper and. the other automatists. Previous to
its occurrence the other coincidences had been of a simple,
straightforward kind ;
and though subsequently to its occurrence,
we find other instances of simple cross-correspondence, still we
also find cross-correspondences of a complex type : e.g. “ Light
in West”, “O’er mountain lakes rivers and stream”, and
“ Thanatos
It is in these cross-correspondences and not in the formulated
replies made by the trance-personalities that I am disposed to
find that intelligent response to the Latin Message which
Myersp was asked to make.
But did “ Browning Hope and Star ” really reproduce all the
essential features of the experiment described in the Latin
Message ? In my opinion it did not, and I regard it rather
as a first and only partially successful attempt to carry out
an experiment on the lines laid down in the Message. Section
XIX of this paper, however, contains an account of a batch
of phenomena which I think may be fixirly claimed as ful-
filling with essential, if not with absolutely formal, exactness
the conditions stipulated in the Latin Message.
At this point it would be well to enquire what type of
complex coincidence, if not the exact typ>e demanded in the
]\lessage, does result from a collation of Mrs Veri'aH’s scripts
of Jan. 23 and 28, Miss Verrall’s scripts of Feb. 3 and Feb. 17
and the various references made in the trance to “ Browning
Hope and Star”.
I take “Browning Hope and Star” to be the simplest
expression of three leading and allied ideas ;
the skeleton
framework, as it were, on which a more complicated structure
was to be built. In the script of Jan. 23 “star” emerges in
an English, in the script of Jan. 28 in a Greek anagram ;
and
in this latter script “hope” is worked in by means of a mis-
quotation, and “Browning” by means of quotations from two
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms. 355
of his poems, his name not actually appearing. “Hope” is not
expressed in Miss Verrall’s scripts at all; but in both her
scripts great emphasis is thrown on “star”, in the first by a
drawino; of it, in the second hv an airagram followed bv the
words “ and a star above it all In this second script
“Browning” is worked in by means of an allusion to the Pied
Piper of Hamelin and his rats, and “Browning” is also
combined with “Star” by making the “rats” of Hamelin town
form one of the variants of the anagram of which “star” is
another variant. But complex though the scheme is, it does
not meet the recpiirements of the Latin Message, for the
connection between Mrs Verra,irs “ Star ” and “ Browning ” and
Miss Verrall’s “Star” and “Browning” would have always been
apparent had the reference to “ Browning Hope and Star
”
never been made in Mrs Piper’s trance ;
all that this reference
did was to reveal the point of the misquotation of “hope” for
“passion” in the script of Jan. 28. Part of the scheme mis-
carried, for, as the extracts quoted above from the sittings of
Feb. 11, Feb. 27 and March 6 show, an effort had been made
to refer in Mrs Verrall’s script to two of Browning’s poems,
“My Star” and “Evelyn Hope”; with the intention apparently
of thereby introducing another variation on the simple theme
“ Browning, Hope and Star ”.
At the sitting of March 6 “ Del Sarto ” was mentioned among
words given to Mrs Verrall, but it was not explicitly stated
that “Del Sarto” was a cross-coi’respondence word intended for
Mrs Verrall. So on March 11 I said to Myersp : “At our last
meeting the words “Del Sarto” appeared without any e.vplaua-
tion. Will you explain them either now or at our next
meeting?” Myensp replied: “I have tried this wdth Mrs V.
several times ”. “ Have you any special reason— ” I began
to ask, when Myersp interrupted me with the remark :
“ Oh !
yes, I am reserving that until the third”, i.e. till March 13.
On March 13, however, no reference at all was made to “Del
Sarto ”. So on April 8 Mrs Sidgwick, at my request, again asked
why “ Del Sarto ” had been given to Mrs Verrall as a cross-
correspondence. Myersp replied :
“ Because it was a good test
and was also brought to my mind by my attempt at the
poem ”. The context shews that by “ the poem ” the poem of
356 J. G. Piddington. [part
Bi’owning’s connected with “ Hope and Star ” was meant. I
had asked for an explanation of the choice of “ Del Sarto
”
as a cross-corresponding message because in view of (1) the
appeax’ance of anagrams on the word “star” in Mrs Verrall’s
scripts of Jan. 23 and 28 and in Miss Verrall’s sci’ipt of
Feb. 17, of which knowledge had been shewn by Myers?;
and (2) the previous introduction of the titles of two of
Browning’s poems, Evelyn Ho]je and My Star, for the
appai’ent purpose of increasing the number and complexity of
the variations on the “ Browning Hope and Star ” theme, it
struck me as a by no means extravagant conjecture that “Del
Sarto ” had been selected for the followino; reasons ;
—
It is part of the title of a poem of Browning’s, Andrea d.el
Sarto, and from it can be formed the anagram “ Lode star
Hence in a sense there would be im[)licit in it allusions to
two out of the three leading ideas “Browning, Hope and
Star”.
I believe that an attempt was made on Feb. 27 to compli-
cate the cross-correspondences based on “ Bi'owning Hope and
Star” .still further. This attempt I find in the allusions to
“ Halcyon days ”, “ evangelic ” (afterwards explained as given in
error for “Evelyn Hope”), “the shrub Syringa”, “my own and
Browning’s ]ioems ”, and “ My Star ” : all of which, except the
last, —and that was twice conjoined later on with “Evelyn
Hope”—Mjmrsp said “helped to combine the ideas as con-
jointly given through Mrs Verrall and this light ”. To deal
with these allusions properly I should have to discuss some
matters of a rather private nature, and as I believe I could
not reach any definite conclusion and could at most bring
out only some interesting and suggestive points, I prefer to
leave this problem untouched. At the same time I should
like to record my opinion that, in spite of vagueness and con-
fusion, there was sense behind these particular communication,s.
The references to the Ode of Horace I postpone for later
discussion ;
and there remains only one small point to touch
on before I resume the account of the pi’ogress of the
experiment.
It will be remembered that as early as Feb. 11 I had seen
in the indirect allusions to Stanza VII of Aht Vogler (which
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Aiitomatisms. 357
I thought Mrs Verrall’s script of Jan. 28 to contain) an implicit
reply to the Latin Message. As time went on I evidently
forgot at moments that the allusions to this stanza were
implicit only and not explicit, and unfortunately I embodied
this mistake in some of the remarks which I addressed to
Myersp and George Pelham on the subject of the Latin
Message. Thus on March 6 I said :
“ I do believe that Myers
has answered the Latin Message clearly and intelligently
through the otlier light [i.e. Mrs Verrall] ;
but he has not shown
through this light that he has done so ”
;
and on March 13 ;
“When you [i.e. Myers] gave it [i.e. ‘your answer’] through
Mrs Verrall you made a detailed reference to a particular
pa.ssage. You have not made such a detailed reference here.
AVill you give it here also ?
”.
Fortunately this silly mistake of mine^ did not, so far as
I can see, confuse the trance-personalities; and it may even
perhaps have had a good result, for it seems possible that it
may have led Myersp to display still further acquaintance with
Mrs Verrall’s script of Jan. 28 and with Miss Verrall’s of
Feb. 17, by reproducing points explicitly expressed therein to
which he had previously made no allusion (v. pp. 411-13).
^ I have only one excuse to offer for my mistake, and that is the difficulty
experienced by the experimenter in preventing his mind from being distracted
by the multifarious duties which are entailed in the charge and conduct of
Mrs Piper’s sittings. He has to decipher the script—no easy matter ;
he has
to seize the sense of what is written ;
he has to reply to questions, and often
to puzzle his brains to concoct an answer which will not diverge too widely
from what he really thinks on the one hand and from what he guesses may
prove palatable to the trance-personalities on the other ;
he has to watch
Mrs Piper’s hand to see that it does not overrun the margin of the paper ;
he has to tear off each sheet as it is finished from the writing-block ; he has
to see that the pencil in use is in good order ;
he has to watch the state of
Mrs Piper’s breathing and to see if her left nostril is clear of the pillow
on which her head rests ;
he has to open or shut the windows in order to
keep the temperature at a point which meets with the approval of Rector
;
he has to look after the fire when there is one ;
he has to make a record of
whatever he himself or the sitter says ;
and amid these preoccupations he
has to try to conduct complicated experiments. If under these circum-
stances—and especially when Rector, as sometimes happens, insists on the
windows being kept wide open in bitter wintry weather—he sometimes fails
to keep his thoughts clear, he may, I hope, be excused.
358 J. G. Piddington. [part
Account of the Progress of the Experiment between
March 20 and June 2, 1907.
Pxtract from records of sitting icith Mrs Piper held on
March 20, 1907.
(Present : E. M. S. alone)
(Myers communicating)
I told Mrs V — about Browning hope
of Bodily death ....
No not quite U.D.
I said I told her of the passage where in B.’s poems
which .—•
[probably a badly written “where”] in w (?)
Stars and — [undecipherable word] and life meet
[I have little doubt that the confusion in the script was
due to the first “where” being by mistake put before
instead of after “in B’s poem”; and that the sentence
was intended to run thus ;
“ I told her of the passage
in B’s poems where (or,
“ in which ”) Stars and — and
life meet ”. On April 8 “ the poem ” was said to be
“with reference to this life and the stars”. JVote hy
J. G. P.]
You remember Browning’s poem I was fond of and to which
I referred
E. M. S. Yes; you referred through Mrs. Verrall to hope and stars.
Yes 1 got that as 1 was reminded of it in Mrs [in error for
“Mr”) P’s [i.e, Piddington’s] message ....
E. M. 8. I see ;
you got it very well.
Is there anything more I have not said ?
(E. M. S. reads over.)
about it that you would ask me to say. . . .
he [i.e. J. G. P.] said that you would ask me to say
E. M. S. I don’t know of anything more ;
but what have you been
saying to Mrs Verrall lately.
Yes that is what I am going to tell you if I can do nothing
about the other message. You remember the poem I
referred to do you not ?
359
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms.
E. S. Yes, you referred to poems of Browning.
but you do U.D. which one 1
E. :m. S. Yes, I understand which one. About stars.
Yes and it was the message which led me to write it
Extract from record of sittinq with Mrs Piper held on
April 2, 1907.
(Present : E. M. S. alone)
E. M. S. Mr Myers, Mr Piddington says you promised to try to tell
us what particular poem of Browning’s you meant to
refer to by the words “ Browning Hope and Star ”. [This
question had been written out before the sitting, and
was read out from the written note.]
(Myers communicating) Oh yes. I am glad to [in error
for “ you ”] remind me of this so clearly I will answer
this at our next meeting
E. M. S. Good.
meanwhile 1 will think it over.
E. M. S. Yes, do.
I mean when I meet jmu alone, not in the presence of
anyone else, as there are so many interruptions on our
side.
lYasn’t that message of Mr Piddington’s good I was so
pleased when the words came out to me clearly. Mr P
—
was very patient with me.
E. M. S. You quite understood the Latin Message, did you not ?
I did otherwise I could not have replied as I did. I will
go over the last sentence again and reply when I see
you alone.
E. M. S. Perhaps you might reply to-morrow before the other friend
[i.e. the sitter] comes.
I do not know that I can but will do so if possible.
360 J. G. Piddington. [part
E. M. S. Thank you.
I wish to say a few words more and then I am through
for today.
(E. M. S. here suggested that she should give two messages
from Mr. Piddington.)
Oh yes do while I can hear you clearly.
E. M. S. Shall I give them now or later ?
Now.
E. M. S. (again reading from a written note.) Mr Piddington says
you promised to try to tell us what particular poem of
Browning’s you meant to refer to hy the words “ Browning
Hope and Star”; and what particular passage in that
poem was suggested to you the Latin Message.
Yes very good I will reply surely. Bright star of hope
shed your beams on me and send a loving message from
far accross [sic] the sea. I only say this as it suggested
itself to me but it has no relevance to my future reply
E. M. S. I understand.
The next sitting at which Mrs Sidgwick was present alone
was that of April 8, from which the following extracts are
taken :
—
E. M. S. I want to ask Mr Myers about the poem.
(Rector communicating) he is coming presentl}^ with Mr
Hodgson and Pelham who will render all the help pos-
sible.
(Myers communicating) Good morning Mrs Sidgwick
I am Myers .... Do you remember the Latin message
I thought I could tell you that I specially thought of
the poem about the stars which read (?) like this do you
remember, the walk tln’ough the lonely
^ For a similar introduction of a poetical quotation cf. ‘As star follows star.’
pp. 370 and 373.
361
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
E. M. S. I can’t read. Is it “ read like this ” ?
It yes it was of Browning’s Poem it was one of Brown-
ing's poems, which he wrote to a friend . . . and which
read (?) as I recall (?) [or, “had as I read”] about
[4 or 5 undecipherable words] Star & [or, “ I ”]
hope. I
(E. M. S. tries to read.)
lonely wandering Star,
which read like this.
I am glad to get even a few words through.
Dont you recall the Poem of Browning’s to the Stars. Yes.
I wander (?) lonely (?) my Star
E. M. S. “ I make lovely my star ” ?
which had also hope
got it
the passage which I referred to was
in the lonely
E. M. S. “lonely”?
Yes. Star yes a passage in Piddington’s message made
me think of it.
E. M. S. Do you remember why ?
Yes because it reminded me [2 undecipherable words]
give some of my own (?) which pleased me very much.
Do you remember my interest in light [“ light ” here, I
believe, means the process, agency or faculty by which
communication with the spiritual world is aflected. Note
hj J. G. P.]
E. M. S. Yes.
and my desire to give some definite proof of.
survival of Bodily death.
E. M. S. Yes, I remember well.
this reminded me of it.
E. M. S. This poem reminded you of it?
362 J. G. Piddington. [part
Yes. and my own love for it. when I was in the body. I
said Pi
E. M. S. “ Pi ” ?
Yes right. It begins with P and Sai
(Rector communicating) I made a mistake
E.
(Myers communicating) Eve confession (?)
Do you remember it ?
E. M. S. Do you mean the poem 1
No my confession of the light and sending the message
through it (a circle was then drawn)
E. M. S. “ through it 0 ” ?
I made a circle
E. M. S. Oh ! a circle. Yes, I remember.
as it suggested it to my mind. ... I then drew or tried to
draw a Star Medium yes draw through the other
light.
E. M. S. I see ;
you drew a star.
and I did so so you would U.D.
that I U.D. the message.
E. M. S. Yes.
and I did this (a star was then drawn)
E. M. S. Yes, thei’e was a star drawn.
I drew it. so you would U.D. that I did it also a crescent.
E. M. S. Do you remember the name of that poem 1
That is what I am trying to get through here.
E. M. S. I see ;
yes.
I said P is right.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 363
E. M. S. “ P ” ? I don’t think that is right.
(Rector communicating) it is not P.
R.
(Myers communicating) R e 1 Right.
E. M. S. R-e-1 is right, you think 1
Yes. I am telling R. [i.e. “ I am telling Rector ”.]
E. M. S. (misreading “telling” as “talking”) Rector is talking?
Yes I am trying to spell it out to him.
E. M. S. You said you tried to get “Del Sarto” through.
Yes did she not get it.
E. M. iS. No, she [i.e. Mrs Verrall] did not get it. Why did you try
“ Del Sarto ” ?
because it was in my memory as a good test and was also
brought to my mind by my attempt at the jjoem.
Don’t you remember the word Sky coming out also
E. M. S. Yes.
in the poem
lonely hope and star, is that clear ?
(Rector communicating) he repeats it again and again, but
I cant seem to U.D. the word
E. M. S. Never mind. Perhaps another day.
It is S’ tars [sic.]
E. M. S. “Stars”?
yes
(Myers communicating) I wish you could hear what I am
saying.
E. M. S. I wish I could.
I was very much afraid my message would not be U.D.
therefore I drew the Star to make sure
364 J. G. Pidclington. [part
E. M. S. I see
that I did U.D. and I try (
1
)
to reproduce it here I will try
and give the name again
I am most anxious to make Rector U.D. about the name of
that poem.
E. M. S. I quite understand.
Do you remember the j^assage in which he referred to the
survival of Bodily death, and giving the message clearlj^
through both lights as a proof of my independent existence
I at once went to Mrs V. and wrote out those lines ....
of Brownings poem and fearing there might be some
mistake I made her draw a star to be sure
E. M. S. I quite see.
and I endeavoured (?) to return here and quote a few fragments
of the poem the poem was with reference to this life and
the stars. ... I am very sorry Rector does not seem
to grasp the word as I spell it.
E. M. S. Never mind. It is difficult.
Yes and a difficult word to get through . . . but I shall try
until he U.D. it.
At the sitting held on April 10 Rector asked if “ Hoi’izon ”
“a
cloudless sky beyond the horizon ” had appeared, and explained
that “ Myers gave it ”. Mrs Sidgwick took this to mean “ has
‘Horizon’ etc. appeared in Mrs Piper’s script”, and replied that
it had ;
but Rector may have meant to ask if “ Horizon ” etc. had
appeared in Mrs Verrall’s script, for just immediately before he
had asked whether a cross-correspondence message intended
for Mrs Verrall had “got through ”
;
and also I know of no other
instance where Rector displayed uncertainty as to what had
appeared in Mrs Piper’s script.
At the beginning of the sitting of April 15 Rector asked
whether Mrs Verrall had written D W, the first two letters of
365
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
a cross-correspondence “Dwarf”, and something like “Mountain”.
From this point the record proceeds as follows:
—
E. M. S. Will you ask Mr Myers why he chose that sentence about
Horizon ?
(Rector communicating) .... Mr M}mrs sends love and
says that message [i.e. the Latin Message] conveyed a
several good things to his mind and that w'as one of
them ....
(Myers communicating) Good morning Mrs Sidgwick . . . .
Piddington’s message conve}'ed much to my mind which
I considered good material to work on . . . therefore all
this came to my mind in consequence. [“ all this ”, as
also Rector’s “ that was one of them ”, must apparently
refer to “that sentence about Horizon”. A’ote hij J. G. P.]
E. M. S. I see.
I believe you U.D. nearly as wmll as I do
E. M. S. Yes, I think I do.
therefore I will just say it was because of this message that
it was brought to my mind and which I tried to bring
out there [i.e. through Mrs Verrall] with other lines (?)
Is it clear 1
E M. S. It is clear ;
but I should like to know why “ horizon ” came as
distinct from “ hope and star ”.
Because it was that special passage which was suggested from
his message to my mind.
E. M. S. I see.
and I gave it there last time as as in part answer to Mr P’s
[i.e. Piddington’s] enquiry.
E. M. S. “ Mr P’s enquiry ” 1
Yes about the part which impressed me most.
The grammai', the phraseology and the thought in these
passages from the sitting of April 15 are alike confused.
It may be that what Myersp was trying to say was that the
366 J. G. Picldivgton. [part
Latin Message had suggested to him the plan of conveying
his answer to Mrs Verrall’s question about auTog ovpavog
aKvfxwv (of which auswer “Cloudless Sky beyond the Horizon”
lormed a part) not in a simple straightforward manner
through one automatist but by means of com])lex cross-
correspondences, and also of using both the phrase “ Cloudless
sky beyond the horizon ” and the words “ Azure ” and “ Blue
”
suggested by it as the subject of a cross-corresponding messaged
Mrs Sidgwick by asking “why ‘horizon’ came as distinct
from ‘hope and star’” introduced, I believe, another element
of confusion. She does not now remember what she meant
by this question. I imagine that a momentary confusion was
])i’oduced in her mind by the obscurity of the communications
at this point. “ Mr P.’s enquiry ” doubtless means the request
made in the Latin Message, as the following remark made by
Myersp on May 6 shows :
—“ I could not help thinking of
Tennyson in one of the enquiries [i.e. Mrs Verrall’s question
about the Greek words] and Browning in the other.”
Early in the sitting of April 17 MyerSp announces that he
has given “ Azure, meaning Blue ” and “ a cloudless sky
beyond the horizon ” to Mrs Verrall (v. Section XX p. 284).
From this point 1 quote the record:
—
(Myers communicating) regarding the message [i.e. the
cross-corresponding message “Cloudless sky” etc.] it
came out I believe with a star being dr-awn also horizon
horizoir yes which comes from the poem.
E. M. S. Browning’s poem, you mean ?
Yes I wrote myself a similar line which I gave her also,
did it not all appear.-
E. M. S. I have not seen it, but I will look carefully again.®
Do because this I think is important.
^ For a detailed discussion of these obscure passages the reader is referred
to Section XX, pp. 292-5.
For a conjectural explanation of this statement v. pip- 293-4.
•^Mrs Sidgwick had no direct access to Mrs Verrall’s script. When she
said “I will look” she meant that she would make enquiries of Miss Johnson
or of J. G. P.
867
Lvil.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Do you remember a poem not finished quite in which
the words lonely came out ? I tried to quote it here
but did not get it all clear, you remember it. [The
expression “
a poem not finished quite ” is explained b}’
“ I tried to quote it here but did not get it all clear ”.
The reference is clearly to “ lonel}^ wandering Star ” given
on April 8. Note hy J. G. P.]
E. M. S. I remember your writing about lonely, yes.
Yes did you find it there [i.e. in Mrs VerraU’s script] also ?
E. M. S. I don’t think so, but I will look again.
wandering lonely and D W
I tried this several times recently . . .
I remember saying Confession also
Chapel and Siazies
E. M. S. I can’t read that word.
Siaz
E. M. S. “ Siaz ” %
Yes. got it clearly
E. M. S.
“ Siaz ”, is that it ?
Not quite Rector did not quite U.D.
To the Stars Siacriez.
(Rector communicating) I can’t cprite get it friend Siaraz
E. M. S. La Saisiaz is it 1
Yes
E. M. S. All right
(Myers communicating
Yes I cant quite get it through
E. M. S. I see.
but it is not that which I am trying to give you
Is Pe
(Rector communicating) I never can seem to U.D. that
word Pi
368 J. G. Pidclington. [part
(Myers communicating) Poem I have in my mind Do you
remember Pie . . . Pie el bus (?) sgnus Nullus Pri
erbus Dont you U.D. what I am trying to give you.
E. M. >S. No, Pm very stupid. I don’t quite.
I am trying
do you remember Avarar a vanaret
E. M. S. “ Avaneret ” ?
Yes nearly. . . .
[“ Pi, Pe, Pie, Pierbus, sgnus nullus Avarar ” and “ a
vanaret” are all obviously attempts at the nullus
appareat nexus and prioribus of the Latin Message.]
Do you remember the poem in which he was left alone and
later it all came to him
(Rector communicating) he is trying to explain the word to
me.
E. M. S. I understand.
but you do not seem to place it.
E. M. S. I think he means La Saisiaz. Why is he telling me about
La Saisiazi
(Myers communicating)
Yes and dont you remember what I said about it
E. M. S. Through this light ?
Yes. I said Hope Star
E. M. S. I see. I did not know which poem that was. [I don’t
quite know what I meant by this remark, but I intended
to draw something about the “ Hope and Star ” poem.
Contemporaneous note by E. M. S'.] [In August 1908 E. M. S.
wrote :
“ It now seems to me obvious that I meant I did
not know that ‘
Hope and Star ’
referred to La Saisiaz.”']
Which poem that was.
the passage I wished (?) concerned (?) these words three
words horizon was one of them and Horizon was the
most important.
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms. 369
E. M. S. I see. I will look at the poem and then I shall understand.
Yes please do. then I shall feel that it has in part reached
you
E. M. S. Mrs Verrall asked you once what Ode of Horace entered
deeply into your inner life, and you said you would
answer the question. [This question was read by me
from a letter received the day before from Mr Piddington.
Note hj E. M. 5'.]
Oh yes Mrs Sidgwick I recall the question and I had Ode
to Nature on my mind but as I thought I loved another
ode better I did not reply until I could say^ (?) it more
clear]y^ Do you remember immortality .... I thought
I could answer.
(Other subjects are then discussed)
E. M. S. Did you when you spoke a little while ago mean to say
you had given me the name of the poem in which
“ Hope and Star ” come ? [I think, but am not
sure, that I said “ when you spoke of La Saisiaz.” Con-
temporaneous note hj E. M. 5'.]
No I have not been able to get it through but I do hope
to do so,
E. M. S. And what particular passage you meant to refer to in it.
Yes I certainly will do so ....
I wish you to repeat to me if you will after nullus
(E. M. S. reads over the Latin Message ’from nullus to the
end.)
thank you I will go over this once more and then I
believe I can get it through to you
(At the very end of the sitting Myersp made another refer-
ence to the same subject, as follows :
—
)
Mrs S I shall see you again and as soon as Piector leaves
the light I will catch him and spell out letter by letter
the poem to him. and give it to you at once when I
see you again. Pll wait for him today. M.
2 A
J. G. Pidclington.
370 [part
E, ^iJ. S. I shall see j’ou on the third after coming alone, [i.e. on
Wednesday, April 24.]
I’ll surely give it then if not before.
The sitting of April 22 was attended V)y Mr E. N. Bennett
alone ;
and the communications referred exclusively to his own
personal affairs, with the exception of an utterance in the
waking-stao-e which w^as recorded as follows :
—
Mr Myei’s says I must keep my promise. A star follows
star a star follows star. That’s all.
“ A star follows star ” was, as appears from what was sub-
quently written during the trance of April 24, a mis-hearing
or mis-pronunciation of “ As star follows star ” : which is a
quotation from Browning’s Saul.
Extract from record of sitting of April 23:
—
(Present : E. M. S. and Miss Newton)
(Rector communicating)
There was some misunderstanding in his [i.e. Myers’s] last
messages to you rvhich he will correct and explain
later. . . .
E. M. S. There will be an opportunity tomorrow as I shall be here
alone.
At the beginning of the sitting of April 24 Hodgsoup first
asked whether variou.s cross-corresponding messages, five in all,
had been received by Mrs VerralL He next asked whether
"Horizon” had come out in Mrs A^en-aU’s script followed by
a long line and the drawing of a star. (v. Section XX,
p. 28G.) ;
and finally asked if Airs A'errall had got the
words “ Alars, Jove and Egla”. Alyersp then takes the place
of Hodgsoiip, and asks if “Ezra” “ wdiat vaunts life” “trans-
cends” “the star spark flame” have appeared in Airs A^errall’s
script. “Alars,” “Jove,” “ Ezra,” “A^aunts,” “transcends,” “star,”
“spark” and “flame” are clearly reminiscences of the opening
stanzas of Browning’s Rahhi ben Ezra? It is not stated that
1 In Mrs Holland's script of Jan. 7, 1904 (v. Pi'oc. Part LV. p. 215) a
quotation from Rahhi hen Ezra is made by IMyersn- This fact could not have
been knovn to Mrs Piper, and was not known to Mrs Sidgwick.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 371
these words have any connection with the Latin Message
;
and from the fact that, after Aht Vogler had been given and
accepted as the correct answer to the question “ What poem was
meant by Brownings Hope and Star ? ”, “ Vaunt ” and “ trans-
cends” were several times mentioned as the subject of an
ordinary cross-correspondence experiment, one might naturally
infer that they were not meant to he so connected. Nevertheless,
for reasons which will be explained later (v. pp. 413-11'), I think
that in giving these words from JRahbi ben Ezra Myersp was here
making a first attempt to quote the particular passage in the
poem of Browning’s meant by “Browning, Hope and Star” which
he had said had been suggested to him by the Latin Message-
From this point I quote the record:
—
(Myers communicating) I now recall the transcends. . . .
and Vaunt did they not appear 1
E. M. S. I do not remember them, but I have not the writing [i.e.
Mrs Verrall’s script] here.
look it up and reread
E. M. S. Yes, I will.
Yes it will assist us here.
E. M. S. Good.
(a star is here roughly drawn)
E. AI. S. A star. Good.
Yes
I remem. [her] V^ol
V o 1 as it came to m}’ memory.
E. M. S. Is that a poem ?
Yes Yes
E. M. S. I don’t quite understand.
Vol gar
E. M. S. I think I see. Why are you telling me about it ?
because I promised you I would.
372 J. G. Piddington. [part
E. M. S. Yes, you were going to think over the name of a poem.
Yes and that is it.
E. M. S. What was the poem about 1
Vol is right.
E. M. S. You have got something like the name of a poem. It is
not quite right, but if you tell me what is in the poem
I think I shall understand.
Hope Star Horizon.
Horizon comes elsewhere
Yes do not get confused dear Mrs Sidgwick.^
E. M, S. I will not get confused.
V :\i
V M
(Rector communicating)
Almost right he says
(Myers apparently encouraging Rector to try again) Yes
I do wish it very much just to keep my promise and
complete my U.D. of the message.
(to E. M. S.) Y^ou know my interest
E. M. S. Yes, I know well.
and my desire to prove the survival of bodily death
E. M. S. Yes, I know well.
AB
Volugevar
E. M. S. You’ve really very nearly got it.
(Rector communicating)
I cant quite repeat the last two letters
but he caught me after I left the light
and told me what it was R.
E. M. S. Yes, Rector, it’s very difficult and you’ve nearly got it. Quite
near enough,
V 0 1 u g u r
AB t
1 For a suggested explanation of this passage v. p. 295.
i-vir.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 373
E.M. S. Yes, Eector, you have got it very nearly right. I am quite
satisfied.
Thank you.
E. M. S. Do you remember what the poem is chiefly about ?
(Myers communicating)
I just gave you
E. M. S. Hope and Star
Yes as Star follows star so I follow that message.
i
I gave Eector one more letter
how do you pronounce
ABt
E. M. S. Abt.
V O (hand enquires of E. M. S.)
E. M. S. Yogler.
Correct
[The hand is tremendously pleased and excited and thumps
and gesticulates. The impression given is like that of a
person dancing round the room in delight at having
accomplished something. Contemporaneous note hy E. M. 6^.]
(Eector communicating)
he pronounced it for me again and again just as you did.
and he said Eector get her to pronounce it for you and you
will U.D. he whispered it in my ear
E. M. S. Just as you Avere coming out ?
just as I left the light.
Voglor
yes.
E. M. S. Good.
(Myers communicating)
Now dear Mrs Sidgwick
in future have no doubt or fear of so called death as there is
none
as there is certainly intelligent life beyond it.
^ Cf. “Bright star of hope shed your beams on me”, p. ,360.
374 ./. G. Pidclington. [part
E. M. S. Yes, it’s a great comfort. -
.
yes and I have helped to proclaim it for you all.
E. M. S. You have indeed.
I wish to continue from time to time to help you by given
[sic] some sign to assure you I am with you.
E. M. S. I hope you will.
(I will) [There were marks meant for brackets enclosing
“I will”, I think. Note by E. M. <S’.]
and that my interest is still keen and
that I hold (1) the deepest affection for you at all
times, also that I look forward
to meeting you on this side.
E. M. S. Yes, I look forward to meeting you and all friends,
one word more.
I gave Mrs Yerrall Vaunt and transcendentalism.^
E. M. S. “ Transcendentalism ” %
yes.
the thing which impressed me most was the lines (?) be3’ond
the grave
and do you remember his cpiestioning
and the answer through his seeing the (a star was then
drawn)
I will catch Rector again and whisper all to him.
and let me first remind you how deeply I was affected by
the message and how the uncertainty of
of abt gave (?) me the words I wrote,
and the faith
(E. M. S. attempts to read over the last few lines.)
how the uncertainty of Abt and the faith which he held gave
me my
brought to my memory
'This had earlier in the sitting been given as “transcends”. E. M. S. had
niis-read it as “transcendental”. “Transcends” occurs in Eabhi hen Ezra, hwt
“ transcendentalism” does not. This is a good instance of the readiness of the
trance-personalities, who accepted tlie mis-reading “transcendental”, to modify
even their correct statements in obedience to suggestion ;
though here the
suggestion may have been specially enticing because it recalled the title of one
of Browning’s poems : Transcendentalism. Note by ./. G. P.
lvil] 375
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
the experience I have had myself sufficiently clear for me to
cjuote it for you.
yes
(Eector communicating)
I left out some words I am sorry R.
(Myers communicating)
Listen Mrs S. are you still listening.
E. M. S. Yes.
I refreshed my memory and C[Uoted. those words as I gave
them to Rector
go over it again and it will I think seem clearer to you.
E. M. S. Shall I read it now ? [I thought he was telling me to go
over the script, but probably he meant the poem. E.M.S.']
Do you remember the passage where his faith is
E. M. S. In the poem ?
yes.
E. M. S. Not Cjuite, but I will look again.
Yes do ....
I remember it fairly well but I am trying to explain to you
his doubts.
E. M. S. Yes, I see.
and fears then his acceptance of God yes and faith in Him
Do you U.D.
E. M. S. Yes, I think I do.
(Rector communicating)
he is trying to explain a little about the poem.
E. M. S. Yes, I quite see.
So that you can be sure he U.D.
E. M. S. Yes, I quite see. Thank you, Mr Myers.
(Myers communicating)
Now can I do more to help you than (1)
give other messages 1
376 [part
J. G. Piddington.
E. M. S. I should like you, Mr Myers, to say’’ exactly why that poem
was so appropriate as an answer to the Latin message.
I chose that because of the appropriate conditions' mentioned
in it which applied to my own life.
U.D.
E. M. S. I see.
and nothing I could think of so
completely answered it to my mind
as those special words.
E. M. S. Yes, I see. I will tell Mr. Piddington.
I send my love to him. I wish
you to ask him if I can be
even more explicit.
E. M. S. I will ask him.
(At the end of the sitting E. M. S. asked Myersp to give
her at the next opportunit}' answers to Mrs Verrall’s
questions about the Greek words and about the Ode of
Horace.)
Extract from sitting of April 29.
(Present : Mrs Verrall and Miss A. Johnson)
(Rector communicating)
He [i.e. Myers] wishes to U.D. if he can reply about the
Horace question on third [i.e. Wednesday, May 1]. Yes
to Mrs S. [i.e. Mrs Sidgwick.]
Mrs V. Oh ! that’s to Mrs Sidgwick, I suppose ?
(Myers communicating) Yes very good. I remember my
reference, to the Greek words well, this was what
brought to my mind the thought about Sasia S a i s i a .
MrsW. Print it.
Francis
Si a a
.
(Rector communicating) No you do not U.D. me R.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 377
Mrs V. No, I know I don’t.
(Myers communicating)
I said the last sentence
Mrs V. “What brought to my mind the sentence”.
which I gave you was o k u m e n [i.e. d/cu/^wr wrongly
transliterated]
(Rector communicating)
Best to U.D. each word
separately if you can and it will be
easier to U.D. him R.
(Myers communicating)
I gave it here several
Several times and I thought you U.D. it.
Mrs V. Yes. What was it, Rector, that you gave me ? A message
about Horace
(Rector communicating)
Yes.
Mrs V. No. I dont think the message has been given me about
Horace. I have no knowledge of it.
Oh yes. I think there is still some
muddling wait and I will explain.
I did not mean Horace at all he Mr Myers means.
Del
Del
MrsV. “Del” or “Det”?
Borg Yes S w Borg.
Mrs V. Swedenborg ?
Yes.
Myersp then said he had “ referred to another character. I
wish to go back to St Paul. My reference to azure a blue sea”. ^
In the waking-stage the words “ the unknown deity—passed
out of their bodies and gone —passed out of their bodies and
gone—passed out of their bodies and gone—every peak and
ly.
pp. 287-8.
378 J. G. Piddington. [part
point .... star — Abt ” were uttered immediately after the
name “Myers” had been pronounced. These words were heard
by Miss Newton and recorded by Mrs Verrall.
On April 30 Mrs Verrall, who was present at the sitting,
repeated to Myersp a question which I had first put on her
behalf some weeks earlier, and which hitherto had not been
answered. From this point the record proceeds a,s follows:
—
(Myers communicating) Did Piddington say more? [i.e. “did
he ask any other cpiestions on your behalf?”]
Mrs. V. Yes, he asked about a poem of Horace which I did not
remember yesterday. Shall I repeat the question ? [Mrs
Verrall had forgotten that she had asked J. G. P. to put
the C|uestion about the Ode of Horace.]
If you will.
Mrs V. I asked if you could remember which of Horace’s Odes
—
his what ?
Mrs V. Odes.
ODES he wrote many ODES.
Mrs V. If you could remember which of these Odes you once told my
husband had specially entered into your inner life.
did you entered into my what life?
Mrs V. Inner life.
Oh inner life. I U.D. now.
Mrs V. You wrote it to my husband after he sent you a book he had
written about Horace.
I believe I can recall it in time. I will certainly go over
my memories very carefully and do my utmost to recall.
Extract from sitting of May 1.
(Present: E. M. S. and Miss A. Johnson)
(Myers communicating)
Good morning Mrs Sidgwick jmu are Mrs Sidgwick are
you not ?
379
LVli.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
E. M. S. Yes, Mr. Myers. Good morning. I am very glad to see you.
I am anxious today to clear one or two things
also to tell you some points.
E. M. S. Yes, thank you. I shall be very glad to hear them.
Do you remember Avhat I said about disappointments.
E. M. S. “Disappointments”?
yes.
I wished to recall, and complete, anything that has been
asked of me so far as possible.
E. M. S. Thank you.
Do you remember my reference to the Poem
E. M. S. Yes, very well.
Did you wish to ask anything more.
Do you remember when I said I had passed through my
body and returned.
I tried to give it. & clearly
but w'as not sure that you U.D.
E. M. S. Do you mean you gave the name of the poem ?
Oh yes. I mean I tried to give another part also,
which referred to completed, happiness in this life,
and the possibility of returning to the old world, again,
to prove the truth of survival of Bodily death,
those words were lingering in my memory and I gave it as
peak followed Star.
(Rector communicating)
It is not all through yet R.
E. M. S. I see.
I only get a few of his words at a time friend.
E. M. S. I see.
If they do not make sense I am sorry and
you must patch them together as best you can.
380 J. G. Picldi'ngton. [part
E. M. S. Yes, I think they are quite good sense.
[This I said prompted by Miss Johnson who saw the
reference to Aht Vogler, in the words “ passed through my body
and returned ”, which escaped me. Contem])oraneous note by
E. M. 8.]
he says other words about disappointment and how he
hoped.
E. M. S. Yes.
joy and sublime truth and delight because of his achievement,
do you U.D. what he is talking about.
E. M. S. Not quite, but I will piece it together.
A. J. (to E. M. S.) I know what he’s talking about.
Will you try 1
E. M. S. Yes, certainly. I think I quite understand.
Oh I do not. R.
But I will register what he says.
Peace Heaven made whole sky and Heaven meet.
(Myers communicating)
Mrs Sidgwick dear old friend do you hear me at all 1
E. M. S. Yes, I hear. I have not cpiite understood, but I am putting
it together and I think I shall understand.
I believe you will, when I tell you I have returned to
breath [sic] in the old world which,
which is not however better than our new.
(E. M. S. has difficulty in reading.)
(Rector communicating)
returned to
he said breathe
E. M. S. It is about Abt Yogler he is telling me, is it not 1
he is telling you about his writing through Mrs Verrall
Abt Volger
Y 0
E. M. S. V 0 G, yes, quite right,
g 1 a r.
and that is all I can ET.D myself R.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 381
E. M. S. Let him go on and say all he wishes to say.
he will he speaks very beautiful words to me E.
(Myers communicating)
Mrs Sidgwick my most earnest wish is
to complete rny undertaking while the
opportunity presents itself.
Hodgson is present and wishes me
to express his love and best wishes
He is helping me now.
I remember vaguely my earliest impression of those words.
What is to be shall be.
and what should (1) be (?) shall be soon.
(Towards the end of the sitting Myersp spontaneously intro-
duced the following reference to Horace’s Odes :)
I went over those Odes very carefully
and remembered one in particular
which I loved ver}' much
Odes yes it was.
(Rector communicating)
sounds like Odessus
E. M. S. “Odessis”?
yes.
Odesesis
Odesia
E. M. S. “Odesia”?
yes like it
(Myers communicating)
I do not think I ever told you. before.
Odesu
Odesie
E. M.S. “Odyssey”?
yes
Better not it quite.
E. :m. S. Let us leave it for next time.
Good
382 J, Q_ Piddincjton. [part
In the waking-stage the following words were spoken :
—
hat do they say to me 1 Got Rector b}' the ear. Aches
(rubbing the right liand). I want to sa}^
What’s the super ceiling (1) ? I’m sure too sure. I’m passed
through the body and gone. Heaven. Well, I never
had such a good time. Mr Hodgson says you’ve got
to do some thinking and then you’ll see what he is
drivins: at.
On May 6 Mrs Sidgwick asked Rector “ to bring out ” the
word “Vaunt”, which had been before mentioned as the suViject
of a cross-corresponding message, “ with the other lights ” (i.e.
other automatists besides Mrs Verrall) “according to the Latin
Message”. Rector replied: “Yes, we will. You can rely upon
our doing so under just the right conditions”. I now quote
from the record : —
•
(Myers communicating) Now I believe this [i.e. the name
Plotinus] completes the answer to the Greek question.
E. M. S. Yes, it does.
and the Latin I have previously answered.
E. M. S. I see. Yes.
I believe through both lights sufficiently for you to U.D.
that I have really answered at last.
E. M. S. Through Mrs. Yerrall you answered very clearljq and
through this “light” you have said a good deal about
Alt VorjJer. But in Abt Vogler there is a particular
line which specially answers the Latin Message. The
Latin Message, as you know, refers to cross-correspond-
ences, but also to something more, and there is a line
in Alt Vogler which we think you had in mind as
describing that something more. It would be very good
if you could give it here.
[The aljove was noted l^y Miss Johnson, but not fully. I
have written out from her notes what I intended to say
and believe I, in effect, did say. Contemgooraneous note by
E. M. Y]
LVII.l 883
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Yes certainly. I shall have to give it to Rector as I did
the Greek.
E. M. vS. That would be a good plan.
then I can get it through clearly,
did you say Line.
E. M. S. Yes, it is a line of the poem.
Poem ?
E. M. S. Yes. Abt Fogler.
Abt ABT. Yolg
(hand expresses dissatisfaction with this.)
Yogler.
(Rector communicating)
You see I do not always catch the
letters as he repeats them. R.
E. M. S. No, I see.
Therefore when I am registering I am apt to misspell.
E. M. S. I see.
but if you ask me to correct it of course I can. R.
E. M. S. I see.
(Myers communicating.)
I remember the message as referring to my giving, proofs
of survival of Bodily death by, or through C C. [i.e.
“ cross-correspondence ”] messages.
E. M. S. YYs in a particular way.
quite I U.D. absolutely
very(?) it is very clear to me my only difficulty is in
making it quite clear to R. [i.e. Rector]
E. M. S. I see.
I could not help thinking of Tennyson in one of the
inquiries and Browning in the other.
384 G. Pidclington. [part
E. M. S. Quite right.
You may be quite sure I will go over this carefully and
tell R.
(After making a few references to other subjects Myersp
continues as follows :)
now one word more.
Mrs S. my reply was. about the poem, and long ago I gave
the word Music, which came to me as appropriate to
my answer, and U.D. of the message.
E. M. S. Yes, quite right.
You must patch things together as best you can. Remember
we do not give odd
or singular words, without
(Healer’s influence grasped here.)
a deep and hidden meaning.
E. M. S. That is why we thought you had a hidden meaning in
“ Vaunt ”.
Yes so I have
listen, in all our messages through both lights there is
always more or less of the human element in them,
which cannot be avoided, for your U.D.
E. M. S. I see,
but you must discriminate and disect [sic]
E. M. S. “direct”?
disect.
E. M. S. “dissect”.
the spiritual from the material and you will see and U.D.
much, there was great joy yet much hope in the lines
which I wish to give you.
E. M. S. I see. Yes, there is.
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 385
would it be clearer to you if I saitl hoped ?
yes
hoped separate word
hoped yes.
does it convey my meaning any clearer ?
E. AI. S. Not quite, I think.
Do you remember, the delight and joy of ABt and then
the longing and final hope.
E. M. S. Yes quite.
Yes
well now do you U.D.
E. M. S. Yes, I think I do.
I shall make it clearer after talking it over with E. [i.e.
Eector.]
E. AI. S. Yes.
but I am only giving you additional proofs of my U.Dg.
E. AI. S. Yes, you are, I think.
Mrs Sidgwick I am trying now dear friend to give you
additional evidence do you remember the point where
Poem suggested itself to me 'I
E. AI. S. Yes.
and I selected from it my reply.
(MyerSp after addressing some remarks to Miss Johnson;
then continues as follows :—
)
I remember.
Those who passed beyond do return
Those beyond mortal vision
(Eector communicating)
I am sorry I left that out E.
(Myers communicating)
1 will now refer a little more to my expressions as I wish
them to appear.
386 J. G. Plddington. [part
E. M. S. Do. Shall I tell yon something ? About the Ode
—
Horace’s Ode—we believe you have got something
about it, but it was not clear to us. [I had read
to Mrs Verrall the part of the record of the sitting of
May 1 containing the words “I had passed through my
body and returned She said this was appropriate to
and might be an attempt to describe the Horace Ode,
which was about reincarnation. I do not think we either
of us connected it at the moment with Aht Foglev, certainly
I did not. Contemporaneous note hy E. M. fS.] If you can
get it clear, it will be very good.
You I think connected it today.
(E. M. S. has difficulty in reading.)
You have (1) I think connected it today.
E. M. S. It was last time I was here, and I connected it afterwards.
Yes. I mean you U.D. what I was
trying to express.
you remember.
Passed through body and gone.
(E. M. S. whispers to A. J., “that’s right”.)
breathe
E. M. S. “ breathe ” ?
Yes.
again in old world.
E. M. S. Yes, quite right ; that is what I meant.
that was the part I specially referred to and tried to
convey.
E. M. S. Yes, and I did not understand till afterwards.
Sorry but glad you U.D. now.
I tried with all my power to answer it while the light was
burning
breathe again in the old world.
as if it were here (?) [or, “ new ”] I said.
E. M. S. Yes. I think that was what you said.
387
A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
but the words were a little eonfused perhaps,
but those words I specially remembered as being (?) [or
“having”] referred to in my message to Mr Verrall.
E. M. S. Yes, I think that is quite right, but I will ask Mr Verrall.
If you do you will find it is the only part which most
impressed on my memory,
in my memory.
If I could make it clearer. I would certainly try.
There were one or two other words concerned with Horace
did you U.D.
E. M. S. No; I did not understand; I will look again.
Breathe was one Old another
World another
E. M. S. I will look for them in the record
Breath
Passed through body and gone
all goes together
and that is Horace.
E. M. S. I see.
Now I do not believe I can do more today.
Extract from sitting of May 7,
(Present : E. M. S. and Miss A. Johnson)
(Myers communicating)
I wish very much to make things as clear as I can.
E. M. S. Is that Mr. Myers ?
Yes.
I heard you speak to me
Good morning my friend.
E. M. S. Good morning, Mr. Myers.
I am very glad to greet you again.
E. M. S. And I to greet you.
3<S8 G. Pidclington. [part
If the fourth is a Star what would C?) [or, “should”] the
third be.
do you U.D.
E. M. S. Yes, I understand I think.
Out of the first came a star.
E. M. S. (misreading) “but if the first came a star”.
(Rector communicating)
I do not think I get it just right. R.
E. M. S. Never mind, we will get it right directly.
fourth
Star and then he draws it. and says fourth
E. M. S. Yes, good
if instead of a fourth came a star.
E. xM. S. Yes ?
(Here an incomplete drawing of a star was made)
E. M. S. Yes, he draws a star.
(Myers communicating.)
framed
E. M.S. “framed”? “fumed”?
Yes.
I say Passion.
E. M. S. Yes.
to sky.
do you hear me at all
E. M.S. Yes, I hear you. I think you are trying to tell me the
line I asked for.
I am giving it to Rector.
E. M. S. I .see.
in my passion to
got it.
389
LVii.] A Series of Concordant AtUomatisms.
E. M. S. Yes, I think I have got it enough,
in my passion to s sc
(E. M. S. reads “ s e ”) (Hand shaken to indicate negative.)
no.
in my passion
is right.
E. M. S. I think you have given it quite enough. I quite see what
line you are referring to. [I meant the line about the
star. E. M. >?.]
Sky
the the Sky
I gave it to Rector when I left.
E. M. S. Yes, I see.
in my passion to
the sky.
E. M. S. If you are trying to give me the line in AM Vogler which
I asked for, }mu need not trouble further.
[The line I wanted was
:
“ That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth
sound, hut a star ”,
but I had not got the exact words in my mind. This line
had, of course, been clearly indicated, but an attempt
was now being made to give
“As the earth had done her best, in my passion,
to scale the sJcy”,
which was not in my mind at all and which I did not
remember. Contemporaneous note by E. M. S'.]
that is it
I promised to complete it this day.
E. M.S. Yes, it is all right. I wanted to know if you were thinking
of that line when you quoted Abt Vogler, as an answer
[“to the Latin message”, I ought to have said, but it
is very doubtful whether I did. Note by E. M. S.]
390 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Oh yes. this is all I am thinking about
about at the moment is to give you the
line I promised,
have you U.D. it sufficiently
E. M. S. Yes, I think I understand it quite sufficiently.
Passion is the chief word yes
U.D.
E. M. S. I see.
to sc the sky
reach I
E. M. S. reach 1
it should not be reach but scale
in my passion is right.
(A. J., who, though sitting apart, knew what was passing
because E. M. S. read the writing out as it came, wrote
on a slip of paper “This is another line in AM Vogler.”,
and handed this to E. M. S.)
E. M. S. But the line I wanted was the one about the star.
Yes I know but I am only explaining-
in my passion to to reach you
as clear as the sky
I quote
If out of
If instead of
The forth [sic] framed a star
E. M. S. “ formed a star 1
” “ found a star ”
? [I now think “ framed
”
was what was intended. Noie hy E. M. »?.]
Yes.
fourth Star.
E. M. S. I see.
came a Star, is right,
and to make it clearer.
I drew a Star.
E. M. S. I see ;
very good.
LVII.]
E. M. S.
E. M. S.
E. M. S.
E. M. S.
E. M, S.
E. M. S.
E. M. S.
E. M. S.
A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 391
This completes my answer to the Latin message.
If you have received all my words
(E. M. S. cannot read “received”.)
received all my words clearly,
in my Passion to reach you clearly.
I have made Eector try to — draw a star for me so there
can be no mistake.
No, there can be no mistake.
now are you satisfied?
Yes, cjuite.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
You U.D. the difficulties in quoting to Rector who must
repeat for me.
Yes, I U.D.
When I quoted to Mrs Y. I drew the Star so as to make
it clearer and I wished R to reproduce it in connection
with the words in the line.
Yes.
this is all unless you wish me to recall more words of it
No, thank you. You have recalled cjuite enough.
So long as you U.D. it. I am happy.
And I am very happy too, because you have understood us.
I U.D. from the first. but we labored [sic] under great
difficulties
in trying to complete it. through both lights.
I see.
(Rector communicating)
he asked me to make the message C C. [i.e. “cross-corre-
spondence ”] unmistakeably clear
392 J. G. Fidclington. [part
E. M. S. Yes, thank you.
and do it in such a way as to make it conclusive.
E. M. S. Yes, I think you have.
I believe you are fair enough to realise it
(Myers communicating)
If instead of out of the fourth came a Star there is something
I cant get through yet.
E. M. S. I think you have got through enough
all right.
give it to my friend [i.e. J. G. P.] and tell him this is my
final answer to his request for a definite C C message.
E. M. S. Yes, I will.
(Waking-Stage.)
Hallo
Pm glad —•
— yes.
Sound star
instead of a fourth sound
sound
yes Sound
I hear you
Mr Myers says Out of — — framed the Star ;
and they
would not let me go till I said it.
Extract from sitting of May 8.
(Present : E. M. S. and Miss Alice Johnson)
(Myers communicating)
One word did she [i.e. Mrs Verrall] U.D. my answers.
E. M. S. I think she did. She understood about the Greek—that was
quite complete, but she asked me to tell her if you said
anything more about Hornce.
I said Breathed in several dift'erent communications or tried
to get it through.
393
LVJi.] ^4 iSeries of Concordant Automatisms.
E. M. S. Yes, you did get that through.
This was the one particular part whicli I recalled
E. M. S. I see: that’s quite gooh.
I do not attempt to get the whole passage through this day
but I do wish to niake it as clear as I can for your U.Dg
that I do remember the Ode in a sense.
E. M. S. Yes, I think you do.
I certainly do.
Breathed and life wonderfully impressed me always,
breathed life & more
(Rector communicating)
I can’t U.I). that word sounds like World
Right
E. M. S. Yes ;
I see ;
that’s right.
with something else and world
E. M. S. I see.
Yes.
right R.
E. M. S. Good.
(Myers communicating)
Is that sufficient.
E. M. S. Yes, that’s quite sufficient.
(After further subjects have been mentioned, Hodgson com-
municates as follows :
—
)
instead of a fourth sound
E. M. S. Fourth sounds Yes'?
(Hand raised in air as though listening)
he framed a fourth sound
E. M. S. (reading) “ He framed a fourth sound ” 1
named a fourth a star,
yes.
394 J. G. Fiddington. [part
E. M. S. I see.
I do not know exactly whether
you realise how I U.D. that message.
E, M. S. I think I do.
I am Hodgson.
Extract from sitting of May 27.
(Present : 0. J. L. and Lady Lodge)
(Myers communicating)
0. .J. L. Do you wish to translate to me Piddington’s Latin
Message ?
Yes, you have long since been trying to assimilate ideas.
O. J. L. Cannot read all that.
You have long since been trying to assimilate ideas.
but (?) I wish you to give through Mrs Verrall proof such
proof of the survival of Bodily death
in such a way as to make in such a
prove conclusively conclusively the survival of Bodily death.
0. J. L. Yes I quite understand. [But I did not know that this
purported to be an attempt at translation. I thought it
was padding. Note hy 0. J. L.\
This is the idea.
After the light rests and I return I will through R [i.e.
Rector] give you a concise and clear interpretation of it.
O. .J. L. Very well, you will translate it later?
Yes. I understand the message absolutely but it took a
long time to get it through
He mentioned my own words in it viz. the Survival of
Bodily death.
Did you understand it.
O. J. L. No, I did not; I knew about the Latin, but I do not know
what it was.
395
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automcdisms.
It was this
You have long since been trying to assimilate adies [in error
for “ideas”]
But what we now is for you to give such proof through
C C.
0. J. L. (not realising that he was already trying to do so.) ^^'ould
you tell me the Latin again ?
Yes assimilate ideas one with another
But what I ask is for you to give such proof of the survival
of bodily death and in such a way as to make it conclusive
He wished me to give a message through Mrs Verrall
& this light concerning the same subject.
0. J. L. Yes, I know, cross-correspondence.
Yes, and this was his message to me in Latin.
0. J. L. Very well, thank you.
You will find it is correct in the main,
he suggested Browning to me.
0. J. L. Yes.
In the passage Preflssias [i.e. perficiasf
0. J. L. “ Perfissias ” ?
Yes yes. Appreciate [so read]
Apparirat Appariat [i.e. appareat\.
O. J. L. Oh, I see, “ Appariat ”
;
very well,
illud etc.
from the last sentence I got
instead of a fourth sound came a star, Sound
0. .1. L. Yes, I know.
It was the last sentence in Latin which suggesteil it to my
mind.
Jam dudam commitis [sic].
396 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Extract from sitting of June 2
(Present : 0. J. L. and Lady Lodge)
(Myers communicating)
O. J. L. Do you want to tell me more about Piddington’s Latin 1
Oh yes he said also if you will give me a message not a
message really
but a sign of some kind through the lights
corresponding message which I cannot mistake I shall
consider it the greatest proof of your survival of bodily
death.
Hence my reason for drawing a star.
I believe I have given you a comparatively full or complete
reply.
The message in Latin was this
For a long [read as “life”] time you have been assimilating
ideas one with another through different lights,
but what
is (1) most (!) important (?) of(?) all
if to [misread as “ this ”] prove the survival of
bodily death is for you to give in — a a
certain way a sign
long [apparently a correction of the misreading “ life ”.]
But what I want but what we want
if [in error for “is”] for you to give us proof iu such a
wa}' as to make your proof conclusive.
I wish you would follow me now for a moment.
0. J. L. Quite right.
Remember when Piddington gave me his message the special
point in it was for me to give definite proof through
both lights.
The first thought I had was to repeat a few words or lines
of Browning’s poem, but in order to make it still more
definite I registered a star and the lines which I quoted
to you before. . . . were the most appropriate I could
find.
I believe you will understand this to be conclusive that I
fully understand and have
fairly well translated his message.
LVII.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 397
The Answers given in the Trance to the Horace Ode
Question.
The discussion of the central problem will be simplified if
we first disentangle the references to the side issue involved
in the question about an Ode of Horace. In order to follow
this subordinate incident it must be borne in mind throughout
that on April 2-t Myersp successfully identified the poem of
Browning’s which he claimed to have alluded to in the phrase
“ Hope Star and Browning ” as Abt Vogler.
The question about the Ode of Horace was put to Myersp for
the first time on Jan. 23, 1907 in the following way :
—
J. G. P. I have two questions from Mrs Verrall to put to 3
'ou ....
Do not, of course, answer them to day unless jmu like ;
but do not in any case answer them when Mrs Verrall
is here. (J. G. P. then put the first question.) Now I
will give you the second question :
“ Which Ode of
Horace entered deeply into your inner lifei” (J. G. P.
repeated the question three times, each time reading it
from a written note. On the third occasion he added
“Horace, the Latin poet”.)
Mjmrsp, after the question had been put, said: “this I
shall have to recall and dwell upon at some length after I
cease to communicate today before I can bring out an intelligent
reply ”.
I myself had no knowledge or means of guessing what the
answer should be.
No further reference was made to the subject until Feb. 27.
At the sitting held on that day Myersp made his second attempt
to answer the Latin Message ;
and in the course of it stated
that he had I’eplied to it already in messages given partly
through Mrs Piper and partly through Mi's Verrall; and that
one of these messages was “ with reference to the Poems and
cross-corresponding messages as given . . . through Mrs Verrall”.
I asked what poems were meant by “ the Poems ”, and Myer.sp
replied that he meant his own poems and Browning’s ;
and
added that he was thinking chiefly of “ Browning’s lines as
given through Mrs Verrall”. But before this last statement
398 [part
J. G. Piddington.
was added the word “Horace” was disconnectedly written,
tliough in a context which must be held to have meant that
Horace’s poems were to be joined with “ Browning’s and my
own ” (v. p. 335).
The next reference to the subject was made on March 4,
when Myersp spontaneously alluded to the question about the
Horace Ode as follows :
“ I tried to make my thoughts clear
to you about my difficulty in replying to Mrs V.’s question
about Horace. Did you understand . . . that I could not reply
for some time about Horace. Did he [Rector] refer to it at
all ?
” I said I thought not ;
but that Horace had been con-
nected with his own answer to the Latin Message. Myersp at
once said this was a mistake :
“ it came to my mind while
speaking that I had not replied to it; but in my desire to
reply to your message doubtless there was some confusion ”.
Confusion there doubtless was, but I believe it was confusion
of an intelligible and extremely suggestive kind, for, as I
shall presentl}^ show, MyerSp answered the question about the
Ode of Horace by means of allusions to two poems of Frederic
Myers’s and to Browning’s Aht Vogler.
The next reference to the subject was on April 17, when
Mrs Sidgwick reminded Myersp of his ])romise to answer the
question. Myersp said: “I recall the question, and I had Ode
to Nature on my mind; but as I thought I loved another ode
better I did not reply until I could say it more clearly. Do
you remember immortality? . . I thought I could answer”.
Mrs Sidgwick saw no sense in this, nor did I when I read
the record. I understood Myersp to mean that there was an
Ode of Horace known as the “Ode to Nature”, and that he
had first thous;ht of this Ode as being the one which had
entered deeply into his inner life, but had subsequently remem-
bered another Ode which he had loved better, but that so far
he had not succeeded in mentioning it through Mrs Piper. The
question “do you i-ememher immortality?” I dismissed as
rubbish.
Months later I noticed that Ode to Nature and Immortality
are the titles of two poems by F. W. H. Myers published in
Fragments of Prose and Poetry
:
a book unknown to Mrs Piper
(v. pp. 109-110). Between Hoi'. C. I. 28 —the Ode of Horace
lvil] a Series of Concordant A^itomatisms. 399
to which Mrs Verrall’s question referred—and Immo7'tality
it seems to me that there may be a considerable resemblance
in thought, and there are some resemblances in language. The
central thought of Myers’s Immoi'tcdity—of which I quote
part of the first and the whole of the second and last stanza
—T take to be this :
“ The prospect of annihilation is painful
;
but the prospect of an aimless, inert and monotonous im-
mortality is as bad, or even worse
Lo all that age is as a speck of sand
Lost on the long beach when the tides are free.
And no man metes it in his hollow hand
Nor cai’es to ponder it, how small it be;
At ebb it lies forgotten on the land
And at full tide forgotten in the sea.
II
Yet in my hid soul must a voice I’eply
Which knows not which may seem the viler gain,
To sleep for ever or be born again.
The blank repose or drear eternity.
A solitary thing it were to die
So late begotten and so early slain.
With sweet life withered to a passing pain,
Till nothing anywhere should still be I.
Yet if for evermore I must convey
These weary senses thro’ an endless day
And gaze on God with these exhausted eyes,
I fear that howso’er the seraphs play
My life shall not be theirs nor I as they.
But homeless in the heart of Paradise.
Of the “ Archytas ” Ode (i.e. Hor. C. I. 28) the view taken by
most commentators is this: “All men, even philosophers and
other great men, and even men who have been reincarnated,
must die But this Ode has been generally recognised to be
a perplexing one ;
and the clue to the right interpretation of
it lias perhaps been lost. So obscure, indeed, is its purpose
that Wickham says “it would be hard to find two editors who
agree” about it. An individual scholar, such as Frederic Myers,
400 •/. G. Fiddington. [part
for instance, might naturally then put his own individual con-
struction upon it. I am going to suggest a view of the Ode
which I myself do not believe is the true one (11. 16-20 seem
to me to be almost conclusive against it), but which I believe
Frederic Myers—reading, a little wilfully, perhaps, his own
my.sticisin into it—may well have held. It may be expressed
thus :
“ Archytas spent a life actively engaged in the study of
science and philosophy; Tantalus and Minos in kingly duties ;
Tithonus in the delights of love; and Pythagoras passed not one
but two active and varied lives on this earth, first as Euphorbus,
a warrior in the Trojan war, and afterwards as Pythagoras, a
philosopher and man of science. Yet what availed all their
earthly activities ? All are now condemned to joyless, inert,
aimless, shadowy, monotonous existence in the Underworld.
Might they not say as Achilles to Odysseus :
‘
Nay, speak not
comfortably to me of death. Rather would I live above ground
as the hireling of another . . . than bear sway among all the
dead that be departed ’
? For death is not the end of all ;
it
destroys only the sinews and the flesh (‘niliil ultra Nervos
atque cutem morti concesserat atrae’). So neither death nor
annihilation is what men have to dread, but rather the prospect
‘
that evermore I must convey These weary senses thro’ an
endless day’ in ‘The blank repose or drear eternity’ of the
Underworld.”
The vei'bal resemblances between Imviortcdity and Hor. C. I.
28 are these :
—
“No man metes it” (i.e. that age, which is as a speck of sand)
and arenae mensorem\ “on the long beach” and 'prope litiis
Matinum, and the variant lyrope latum Matinum; “speck of
sand ” and indveris exigui munera.
These resemblances in language are slight enough, particularly
the last ;
but in estimating what they may be worth, the fact
must not be lost sight of that the two poems which present
them presented, according to my theory at least, to the mind
of the author of one of them a resemblance in thought as
well.
1 am now inclined to inter[)ret the answer given on April
17 by Myersp—“I had Ode to Nature on my mind, but as I
thought I loved another ode better I did not reply until I
401
lvil] Series of Concordant A utomatisms.
could say it more clearly. Do you remember immortality ?
”
—
thus :
—
“ I first thought of an Ode of Horace to which I had made
allusions in my poem Ode to Nature ;
hut afterwards I re-
membered another Ode of Horace which was a greater favourite
of mine and which was in my mind when I wrote my poem
Immortality
I cannot assert that Myers’s Ode to Nature contains any
very direct reference to an Ode of Horace, but I do see in it
an echo of Hor. C. III. 4. Horace in this Ode tells the story
of how once in his early boyhood the “ storied doves ” of the
Goddess of Love had covered him, as he lay asleep on the
hills, with a garland of fresh laurel and myrtle leaves as a
foretoken of his I'uture fame as a poet. In the Ode to Nature
the poet is speaking of the hopes and dreams which “lured
fi om child to man the vision-haunted boy ”
;
and as he recalls
hovv in his youth he had at times felt that poetry was his
true vocation, he is reminded, so it seems to me, of Horace’s
allegorical avowal of the same youthful sense of innate poetic
gifts
Sometimes the flying flame
Was Fortune and was Fame;
Thro’ cloudy rifts a wildering clarion rang;
—
Ofteuer an Orphic crown.
From deep heaven fluttering down.
Lit on a poet’s head, and sweet the poet sang.
But first and last and best.
Most longed-for, least contest.
One form unknown descended as a dove
;
Low in my soul I heard
One new melodious word.
And all the boy’s frame trembled at the touch of Love.
It is true that in Horace’s Ode it is the doves of the
Goddess of Love that placed the crown of laurel on the
future poet’s head ;
whereas in Ode to Nature the Orphic
crown was not brought by doves but fluttered down from
heaven, and it is “ One form unknown ” which “ descended as
402 J. G. Pidclington. [part
a dove ” and made the boy’s frame tremble at the touch of
Love, But not to reproduce pedantically a classical original
is quite in keeping with Myers’s style. A reader of his verse
or prose writings can hardl}^ fail to observe how fond he was
of giving a fresh and modern turn to the many classical
allusions which occur in them. And that is what I believe
he did in this instance.
The next reference to the Horace question was made on
April 24, when, at the close of the sitting held on this date,
Mrs Sidgwick asked Myersp to give her “at the next
opportunity ” his answers to Mrs Verrall’s questions about
the Greek words and about the Ode of Horace. Mrs
Sidgwick did not attend another sitting till May 1.
Meanwhile at the sitting of April 29, at wdiich Mrs Verrall
and Miss Johnson were present, Rector asked if Myers could
rejdy about the Horace question to Mrs Sidgwick on May 1.
In the waking-stage of the trance of April 29 were thi’ice
uttered the words : “ passed out of their bodies and gone ’’
—
a misquotation of “ passed through the body and gone ’’
from
Stanza V Abt Vogler—and they were followed by the words
“ every peak and point .... star Abt ’’
—a misquotation of
“ not a point nor peak but found and fixed its wandering
star’’ from Stanza lY of the same ]ioem. Mrs Yen-all heard
and recorded these words, but did not connect them with
her question about the Ode of Horace ;
and she did not
recognise “ passed out of their bodies and gone ’’
as a mis-
quotation from Abt Vogler.
Mrs Yerrall harl in January, 1907 asked me to put the
question about Horace to Myersp, but T had not told her, nor
had she learnt from any other quarter, that the question had
actually been put, and she had forgotten about it. But she
was reminded of it by Rector’s reference to it on April 29
;
and at the sitting of April 30, at which she was present, she
took the opportunity of putting the question again to Myersp
in this form :
“ I asked if you could rememljer which of
Horace’s Odes }mu once told my husband had specially entered
into your inner life. You wiote it to my husband after he
sent you a book he had written about Horace”. Myersp
promised in reply to think the matter over and said he
403
lvil] a Series of Concordant Automatisms.
thought he would be able to remember, but he gave no hint
that an answer had already been given.
As stated above, on Apxil 24 Mrs Sibgwick had asked
Myersp to give his answer to the Horace question on the
“next opportunity”. On May 1 she had her first sitting
since April 24, and on May 1 —-which was also the day fixed
by himself, on April 29, for replying to the Horace question
—
Myersp asked if she remembered his “ reference to the Poem ”,
i.e. Browning’s Poem Aht Vogler\ and then added “Do you
remember when 1 said I had passed through my body and
returned ? ”. Mrs Sidgwick, not realising that these words
were reminiscent of Aht Vogler, asked “Do you mean you
gave the name of the poem ? ”. To this MyerSp at once
replied ;
“ Oh yes. I mean I tried to give another part also,
which referred to completed happiness in this life and the
possibility of returning to the old world again to prove the
truth of survival of Bodily death. Those words were
lingering in my memory and I gave it as peak followed
Star Miss Johnson then told Mrs Sidgwick that Myersp
was quoting from Aht Vogler, and both then naturally
assumed that M}mrsp in making these further quotations was
merely emphasising the point that Aht Vogler was connected
with his reply to the Latin Message, and they consequently
missed the true significance of the phrase :
“ I tried to give
another part also ”. Kector equally failed to realise what
Myersp was driving at, for he said that Myersp was speaking
about his writing Aht Vogler through Mrs Verrall. Myersp
seemed to be aware that his meaning had not been grasped,
for he preluded another misquotation from Aht Vogler—
“ What is to be shall be, and what should be shall be soon
”
for “ What was, shall live as before ;
. . . What was good shall
be good ”
—by the remai’k :
“ my most earnest wish is to
complete my undertaking while the opportunity presents
itself”; and then, after making a few passing references to
other subjects, added :
“ I went over those Odes very care-
fully and remembered one in particular which I loved very
^ In Abt Vogler the Star comes down from Heaven to meet the Peak, which
has risen up from Earth. When they meet Earth and Heaven are in touch
with each other.
404 J. G. Piddington. [part
much After writing “ Odes ” without difficulty Rector
appeared to be doubtful about the word, and wrote
“ Odessus
” “ Odesesis ” etc. and finally half accepted Mrs
Sidgvvick’s suggestion “ Odyssey ”
—a good instance of how
ready Rector is to accept a misleading suggestion, even
when what he has independently written is right, and also
of discontinuity of consciousness between Rector and the
communicating spirit, who in this case was obviously trying
to talk about the Odes of Horace in order to connect them
with the quotations from Aht Vogler just previously made.
The remark attributed to Hodgsoop in the waking-stage of
this sitting just after “ I’m passed through the body and
gone ” had been uttered is peculiarly apt :
“ Mr Hodgson .says
you’ve got to do some thinking and then you’ll see what
he [i.e. Myer.s] is driving at ”.
Before the next sitting—that of May 6—took place, Mrs
Sidgwick had read to Mrs Verrall the portion of the record
of the sitting of May 1 in which the words “ passed through
the body” etc. occur; and, while they did not recognise these
words as derived from Aht Vogler, they thought that they
might have been used to identity Hor. C. I. 28, which contains
an incidental thouffii strikins; allusion to reiticarnation.^ But
Myersp on May 6 clinched the matter by making it clear
—
and this without help from Mi's Sidgwick—that he had all
along intended the Aht Vogler quotations to be connected
with the question about the Ode of Horace ;
though he did
not explain the connection.
In quoting from the lines which tell how Abt Vogler’s
music attracted back to earth for a brief spell
“ the wonderful Dead who have passed through
the body and gone,
But were back once more to breathe in an old world
worth their new;”
MyerSp may perhaps have meant to allude incidentally to the
passage about the reincarnation of Pythagoras in Hor. C. I. 28;
^ Most of the commentators regard the allusion to the reincarnation of
Pythagoras as incidental, but Newman regards it as the clue to the whole
poem.
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 405
in spite of the fact that to the return to the old world of
“the wonderful Dead” in Browning’s poem the term “reincarna-
tion” could only be applied in a metaphorical sense and not
at all in the sti’ict sense in which it applies to the case of
Pythagorasd
But I think that the main point of the quotations was not
to refer to reincarnation, but to explain the earlier allusion
to Immortality. On May 1, after giving the words “ I had
passed through my body and returned ”, Myei’Sp had gone on
to say :
“ I tried to give another ])art also which referred to
completed happiness in this life and the possibility of re-
turning to the old world again to prove the truth of survival '
of bodily death Mrs Sidgwick had then said that she
did not quite understand the meaning of this passage, but
hoped to do so later ;
and Myersp had replied :
“ I believe
you will when I tell you I have returned to breathe in
the old world, which is not however better than our new”.
It is in these last words that I find the clue to the meaning
of the quotations from Abt Vogler. What Myersp meant I
take to have been this : “In the Archytas Ode existence after
the death of the body is regarded as a worthless thing ;
in
Immortality a fear is expressed lest it prove to be but a
state of endless monotony ;
even in Aht Vogler, a poem full
of hope and joy, the discarnate dead who return to earth find
the old world, at least for a moment, worth their new; but
I—who know the reality, and who, like the wonderful Dead,
have been able to return to breathe again in the old world
—
I tell you that the view expressed in the “ Archytas ” Ode
and the gloomy anticipations expressed in Immortality are
' Allusion is made in Hor. C. I. 28 to the alleged reincarnation of Pythagoras
ill the following lines :
—
‘
‘ habentque
Tartara Panthoiden iterum Oreo
Demissum, quainvis clipeo Trojana refixo
Tempora testatus nihil ultra
Nervos atque cutein morti concesserat atrae.”
Pythagoras asserted that in a former existence he had been Euphorbus, a
hero of the Trojan wars ;
and to prove his assertion he took down at first
sight and claimed as his own a shield hung up in the temple of Hera at
Argos, which on examination was found to have the name of Euphorbus
engraved on it.
J. G. Piddington.
40(j [part
wrong ;
for never and under no circumstances is the old world
worth the new
If my view of the meaning of the references to “ Ode to
Nature” and “do you I’emember immortality?” and of the
quotations from Aht Vogler be accepted, the answer given by
Myersp to Mrs Verrall’s question did not take the form which
Mrs Ven-all consciously expected. She had no idea that either
Ode to Nature or Immortality contained Horatian echoes, and
at the time of the sittings and till as late as April 10, 1908
she was under the impression that it was the allusion to
reincarnation which had interested Myers in Hor. C. I. 28
;
and this in spite of the fact that the letter of Myers’s on
which she had based her question made no allusion to it.
This letter she had first read in 1885, when she was only
slightly acquainted with the writer and was not specially
interested in his “ inner history She had not read it again
until about Christmas 1906, when she had come across it
while going through a collection of old correspondence. The
letter was one of thanks which had been addressed by Fi’ederic
Myers to Dr Verrall for tlie gift of his Studies in the Odes
of Horace.
The relevant passages in it were as follows
:
Dec 31/84
I waited to thank you till I got back to day to Cambridge and
found your book. I have instantly read the first essa}', —with great
pleasure, and, as far as I can tell, with adhesion. Then I glanced
through the book; resolving to keep the j^erusal for some journey
when I could ponder over it at leisure. On pp. 1 36-7 I came on
something that made me get my Horace down and rub my eyes to
see if your references were right. Od. I 28 & III 20 ‘ positively
bad’! The first 6 lines of Archytas [i.e. Hor. C. I. 28] have
entered as deeply as almost any Horatian passage into my own
inner history : and I can’t help thinking there is a real (and not a
merely subjective) grandeur in Aerias tentasse domos, animoque rotun-
dum Percurrisse polum morituro
1 The first 6 lines of Hor. C. I. 28 are as follows
Te marls et terrae numeroque carentis arenae
Mensorem cohibent, Archyta,
Pulveris exiqui prope litus parva Matinum
Munera, nee quidquam tibi prodest
Lvii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 407
The letter makes it clear that it was the first six lines of
the Ode—the lines, that is, which may, perhaps, give ex-
pression to the belief that life in the next world is but a poor-
exchange for life in this world with its many interests and
pleasures—and not the allusion to the reincarnation of
Pythagoras which had impressed Frederic Myers.
Mrs Verrall, however, must have read the letter hastily ;
as
the following extract from a letter which she wrote to me on
April 3, 190S, shows ;
—
The letter to my husband exists : I will send it to you when
I get home. . . . Mr Myers does not say [in the letter] why the
Ode had entered into his inner life (I think that is the phrase) ;
no
doubt it is the reincarnation theory advanced in it that appealed to
him.
On April 10, 1908, Mrs Verrall sent me the original letter
with this comment :
—
I don’t think on looking at it that it is the reincarnation that
specially appeals to Mr Myers j
though of course the reincarnation
would well serve to describe the Ode ;
it is, e.g., the first thing
that occurs to me in connexion with it. But with him it seems to
be the opening lines that ‘
entered into his inner life
I have not read his letter since 1885, when I knew him very
slightly and was [not] specially interested in his inner life.
If my view of the significance of the quotations from Aht
Vogler is not accepted, and they are regarded as allusions to
“ reincarnation ”, then to this extent the answer given by
Myersp corresponded to Mrs Yerrall’s anticipations ;
but her
anticipations will not account for the reference made by
Myersp to Immortality and Ode to Nature.
Aerias teutasse donios animoque rotuiiclum
Percurrisse polum morituro.
They are thus rendered by Conington :
—
The sea, the earth, the innumeralde sand,
Archytas, thou coulds’t measure ;
now, alas !
A little dust on Matine shore has spann’d
That soaring spirit ; vain it was to pass
The gates of heaven, and send thy soul in quest
O'er air’s wide realms; for thou hadst yet to die.”
408 J. G. Fiddingtov. [part
Discussion of the References to the Latin Message made
IN THE Trance between March 20 and June 20, 1907.
Duiing Mrs Sidgwick’s conduct of the Latin Message experi-
ment the object aimed at was to obtain answers to two
questions; (a) What was the name of the poem of Browning’s
which had been described by Myersp as “ Browning, Hope and
Star”; and (b) What line in that poem would serve as an
intelligent reply to the Latin Message. The answers wanted
were, as Mrs Sidgwick knew, to (a) Aht Vogler ;
to (b) “ That
out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but a star ”.
Both answers were in the end correctly given by Myersp
;
the first after some confusion and, perhaps, after one or two
false starts, the second without any beating about the bu.sh.
I will first discu.ss how the answer to (a) emerged.
The passages quoted from the sitting of March 20 I take
to be a first vague attempt to describe Aht Vogler. Those
quoted from the sitting of April 8 are full of confusion.
The poem of Browning’s, which had hitherto always been
referred to as “ Browning, Hope and Star ”, was said to con-
tain the words “ I lonely wandering Star ”, “ I wander lonely
my Star ”. I cannot doubt that we have here an illustration
of the confusion which on Feb. 20 M}^ersp had said was likel}^
to arise between his answer to the Latin Message and cross-
corresponding messages (v. p. 331). On March 20 “ I wandered
lonely as a Cloud ”, and on March G “ Mj^ Star ” had been
mentioned as cross-correspondences. On April 8, Myersp, I
conjecture, had in his mind the line in Aht Vogler “ Not a
point nor peak but found and fixed its wandering star ”
;
(a quotation afterwards applied to the question about the
Ode of Horace) but he confused it with “ I wandered lonely
as a Cloud ” and “ My star ”
;
and hence resulted the absurd
jumble “ lonely wandering Star ” and “ I wander lonely my
Star
But there was, I believe, further confusion still with La
Saisiaz. On April 8 Myersp said :
“ I specially thought of the
poem about the stars, which read like this, ‘
the walk through
the lonely ’
. . . It was one of Browning’s poems which he
wrote to a friend and which read(?) about Star
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms. 409
and hope I lonely wandering Star”; and on April 17: “Do
you remember a poem ... in which the words ‘
lonely ’
came
out t
“
wandering lonely ” and “ D W ” [i.e. the tirst two
letters of “Dwarf” v. p. 89] ... I remember saying Confes-
sion also Chapel [part of a cross-correspondence “ Church, Chapel,
Monument”] and Siazies”; and, after accepting Mrs Sidgwick’s
suggestion “La Saisiaz”, went on “Do you remember the
poem in which he was left alone and later it all came to him ”.
Mrs Verrall’s script of Jan. 17, 1904 had contained the words
“Hope. Hope’s vision” and “Shine at the Wanderer on the Way”.
This script had been published in Froc. Vol. XX. pp. 297-8,
where Mrs Verrall had expressed the view that the allusion was
to Browning’s La Saisiaz ;
and in the course of her comments
had written as follows :
“ Readers of the poem will remember
the circumstances of its production : after the sudden death
of a friend, the poet takes alone the walk which they had
planned to take together, and debating with himself the ques-
tion of Immortality concludes as above described”. It is
difficult to believe that the confused references made on April
8 and 17 b\^ Myersp to “ Star and hope ... I lonely wandering
Star . . . the walk through the lonely . . . Siazies ” were not due
to reminiscences of Mrs Verrall’s script of Jan. 17, 1904 and
of her comments on it. Now in view of the evidence presented
in this paper it would not have been unreasonable to suggest
that Myersp might have possessed acquaintance with the script
of Jan. 17, 1904; but to suggest that MyerSp, regarded as a
personality distinct from Mrs Piper’s normal personality, was
acquainted with Mrs Verrall’s published comments on that
script would be extravagant, and all the more so since Mrs
Piper had read parts of Froc. Vol. XX., and consequently may
have read these comments. Hence I feel bound to conclude
that at least some of the confusion displayed in the Hance on
April 8 and 17 was due to the intrusion of vague recollections
of things with which Mrs Piper was normally acquainted.
On April 8 and 17 Myersp must be held to have indicated
La Saisiaz as the ])oern of Browning’s meant by “ Browning,
Hope and Star”, in spite of the fact that when Mrs Sidgwick
asked him point-blank whether this was his meaning he said no,
and that so far he had not been able to get the name of the
410 J. G. Piddington. [part
poem through. But this denial was not worth much, for the
mere fact that it was necessary to ask this question, and
doubtless also the absence of enthusiasm on Mrs Sidgwick’s
part when La Saisiaz was given, were sufficient hints that
La Saisiaz was not the right answer. It is all the more curious
that La Saisiaz should have been named, because previously
the connection of the poem of Browning’s with the circle and
with “wandering star”, and the phrase “Don’t you remember
the word Sky coming out also in the poem ” suggest that
Myersp had previously been on the right scent.
On April 17 MyerSp promised to give the name of the poem
on April 24, and on April 24 he did give it by naming Aht
Vogler. Wlien, however, Mrs Sidgwick asked why Abt Vogler
constituted an appropriate answer to the Latin Message Myersp
said it was “ because of the appropriate conditions mentioned
in it which applied to my own life ”. The answer Mrs Sidgwick
wanted was that Aht Vogler had been chosen because it
contained the words “ out of three sounds he framed, not a
fourth sound, but a star ”. The answer given by MyerSp was
nevertheless an intelligent one. It meant, as I understand it,
that he had chosen as subjects of cross-correspondence messages
not mere verbal counters, such as single words or ])hrases which
could possess only dry intellectual associations and associations
common to countless other minds, but subjects so stamped and
penetrated with his own individual emotions that they should
serve as evidence for the identity of the chooser. (Cf. p. 75.)
On April 17 Mrs Sidgwick had asked M3’erSp to say what
particular passage in the poem of Browning’s he had meant to
refer to. Myersp said he would do so, but though he promised
to give the name of the poem on April 24 he did not tix any
|)articular day on which to give the passage in question. On
April 24 he did give the name of the poem, Aht Vogler \
but
did not make any attempt to give the passage. So, when on
May 6 Myersp expressed his belief that he had given a sufficient
answer to the Latin Message, Mrs Sidgwick said: “ \vl Aht Vogler
there is a [larticular line which specially answers the Latin
Message. The Latin Message, as you know, refers to cross-
correspondences, but also to something more, and thei’e is a
line in Aht Vogler which we think you had in mind as
LVii.] A Series of Goncordcmt A^domatisms. -til
describing that something more. It would be very good if
you could give it here”. MyerSp promised to think the matter
over, and to give the line to Rector in the same way that he
had given the words “ Plotinus ” and “ Homer’s Iliad ”, and, as
he might have added, “ Abt Vogler”.
The very next day, May 7, MyerSp, immediately after greet-
ing Mrs Sidgwick, said :
“ If the foui'th is a Star what would
the third be ”. Various attempts were made to give the
exact quotation, but without complete succes.s. Still more
than sufiicient success was achieved to place it beyond dispute
that “ out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but a
star” was meant.
Knowledge, then, was shown by Myersp of the general
sense of the Latin Message, of the meaning of some of the
individual words of it, of the name of the poem Aht Vogler,
and of the line “out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth
sound, but a star”. Three at least out of these four answers
were known to Mrs Sidgwick and Miss Johnson, and all four
answers to Mrs Verrall and myself ;
and we had all had
sittings with Mrs Piper. Consequently telepathy between the
living may easily explain this much of the case ;
though it
may be advisable to add that though telepathy may cover
these facts it does not necessarily follow that it is the true
explanation of them.
If we suppose that the result was due to telepathy between
Mrs Piper and the sitters, the long time it took for two
points of the answer—the name of the poem and the line
about the star framed out of three sounds—to emerge is ratlmr
curious, for ever since Feb. 11 both had seized upon my
imagination and been often in my thoughts, and both were
known to three other sitters, Mrs Sidgwick, Mrs Verrall
and Miss Johnson.
Besides giving these answers, MyerSp between March 20 and
May 7 also displayed increased knowledge of Mrs Verrall’s
script of Jan. 28. Thus, on April 8, with reference to the
poem of Browning’s summarised in the words “ Browning, Hope
and Star ”, he said :
“ Don’t you remember the word Sky
coming out also in the poem ? ”
;
and this mention of the
word “ Sky ”
—which occurs twice in the script of Jan. 28
412 J. G. Piddington. [part
and twice in Abt Vogler—was made before the poem was
identified as Aht Vogler. Again, after the poem had been
identified, Myei’Sp on May 6 said: “Would it he clearer to
you if I said ‘
hoped ’
? ‘
hoped ’
separate word. Does it
convey my meaning any clearer ? Do you remember the
delight and joy of Abt and then the longing and final hope ?
These sentences seem to display a most astonishingly accurate
knowledge of Mrs Verrall’s script of Jan. 28, for that script
had contained the word “ hope ” in the phrase “ the hope that
leaves the earth for the sky ”, an obvious misquotation of
“The passion that left the ground to lose itself in the sky”.
Myersp, it must be borne in mind, had first connected the
words “Browning, Hope and Star” which he claimed to have
given to Mrs Verrall, with an unspecified poem of Browning’s,
and then afterwards had identified this poem as Aht Vogler.
But though hope pervades Aht Vogler the word “hope” does
not occur in it; only the word “hoped”. What then Myersp
meant on May 6, so it seems to me, was this :
—“ I summarised
Aht Vogler in the phrase ‘Browning, Hope and Star’, and
I also made Mrs Verrall write the word ‘hope’ when I was
making her quote passages from Aht Vogler. I did this in
spite of the fact that the word ‘hope’ does not occur in Aht
Vogler but only the word ‘hoped’.”
Just before this MyerSp had said: “my reply was about the
poem, and long ago I gave the word Music ” : a remark which,
though it does not show increased knowledge of the script
of Jan. 28, 1907, does, I think, show acquaintance with Mrs
Veirall’s script of Dec. 17, 1906; and this latter I regard, for
reasons explained elsewhere (see pp. 329-330), as closely con-
nected with the former.
Once more, after indicating the line “ out of three sounds
he frame, not a fourth sound, but a star”, Myersp on May 7
quoted :
“ in my passion to scale the sky ”
;
and remarked
“Passion is the chief word”. Now in the script of Jan. 28
the line in Aht Vogler “ The passion that left the ground
to lose itself in the sky ” is misquoted as “ the hope that
leaves the Earth for the sky”, and the word “passion” is
represented only by the Greek words epw? TroOeivoi- If the
extensive acquaintance with the script of Jan. 28 previously
418
LVii.] ^1 Series of Concordant Aidomatisms.
shown in the trance be taken into consideration, I do not
think that it is unreasonable to regal’d what was said by Myersp
on May 7 as indicating a knowledge both of the substitution
of the word “ Hope ” for the word “ Passion ” in the misquota-
tion contained in that script, and of the signiticance of the
substitution. Lastly, when on June 2 Myersp was essaying his
final translation of the Latin Message, he perhaps manifested in
the words :
“ he [i.e. J. G. P.] said also, if you will give me a
message—not a message really but a sign of some kind through
the lights—corresponding message ” etc. : a knowledge of the
repag (sign) of the script of Jan. 28, and of the words “ that
was the sicrn ” which followed the drawing of the star in Miss
Verrall’s script of Feb. 17.
On May 27 Myersp in his translation of the Latin Message
used the words: “I wish you to give through Mrs Verrall
. . . such proof of the survival of bodily death in such a way
as to . .
.
prove conclusively the survival of bodily death ”
;
and “ But what I ask is for you to give such jiroof of the
survival of bodily death, and in such a way as to make it
conclusive.” The use of the phrase “ in such a way ” might
be thought to suggest that Myersp was here endeavouring
vaguely to describe the plan for the working of complex
cross-correspondences set forth in the Latin Message. But I
think the phrase “ in such a way ” was simply an echo or
paraphrase of a sentence spoken Vw Mrs Sidgwick. On May 6,
when Myersp said that the Latin Message referred to his
giving proofs of survival “ by or through C. C. messages ”,
she had replied :
“ Yes, in a particidar %vay
On April 24 Hodgsonp asked if “Mars the planet”, “Jove”
and “Egla” [sic] had appeared in Mrs Verrall’s script; and
then Myersp said that he had given Mrs Verrall the words
“Ezra”, “what vaunts life”, “Vaunt”, “transcends”, “the
star spark flame ”, and added :
“ whereas it is diflicult to get
through the words one after the other I believe I can make
you [i.e. Mrs Sidgwick] understand that I know what I gave
her [i.e. Mrs Verrall]”. The words “Mars”, “Jove”, “stars”,
“ flame ”, and “ transcends ” all occur in the second stanza,
“vaunt of life” occurs in the fourth stanza, and “spark” in
the third and fifth stanzas of Browning’s Rabbi ben Ezra. If
414 J. 0. Piddington. [part
we exclude “Ezra”, which is part of the title of the poem,
eight words in all wei’e mentioned, and five out of these
eight occur in the second stanza. It would seem, then, that
Hodgsoup and Myersp meant that they had tried to make
Ml’S Verrall write some lines from the first four or five stanzas
ot Rabbi ben Ezra, a poem containing 32 stanzas in all; and,
since five out of the eight words mentioned occur in the last
three lines of the second stanza, that it was these lines
which they specially wished to indicate. The last three lines
ot this second stanza, which consists of six lines in all, are as
follows
:
‘Not that, admiring stars.
It yearned “Nor Jove, nor Mars;
Mine be some figured flame which blends transcends them all.”
’
Although directly after these words taken from the early
stanzas of Rabbi ben Ezra had been given MyerSp went on to
give Abt Vogler as the name of the poem meant by “Browning,
Hope and Star”, it was not till 13 days later (May 7) that
he succeeded in indicating the particular line in Abt Vogler—
“ That out of three sounds he frame, not a fourth sound, but
a star”—that answered the Latin Message. Still it looks as
if on April 24 Myersp was hot on the scent, for the “ figured
flame ” in Rabbi ben Ezra is closely analogous to the star
in Abt Vogler, which blends and transcends the three sounds
out of which it is framed. It looks, too, as if Myersp on
April 24, though unable at the moment to recall the actual
words of it, knew the gist of the line in Abt Vogler; and
was familiar enough with Browning’s poems to be able to
indicate, by quoting prominent words contained in them, other
lines of Browning’s which embod}^ an idea closely resembling
the idea expressed in the Abt Vogler line.
The discovery of these two analogous ])assages demands, in
my opinion, a greater familiarity with Browning’s poems than
Mrs Piper normally possesses. But that the reader may be
in a position to form his own opinion on this point, I append
some notes written by Miss Alice Johnson and Sir Oliver
Lodge, which will furnish him with the necessary data.
415
LVii.] A Series of Concordant Automatisms.
Notes re Mrs Piper’s Knowledge of Browning’s Poems.
Note ivritten by Miss Alice Johnson on May 1907.
After the sitting of Tuesday, May 7th, Mrs Sidg-wick asked
Mrs Piper what poets she had chietl}^ read, saying that
various quotations had come in the script and she wondered
wliether they were from poems that slie had I'ead or not. Mrs
Piper said that she used to read Longfellow, Whittier and
some one else (I forget who, but I think an American), and
that this was about all. Mrs Sidgwick asked whether she
had read much of Tennyson, Shakespeare, Browning or Milton.
She said, “ pi’actically nothing.” She seemed to regard Shakes-
peare and Browning as about equally remote and obscure.
'I'he next day she said that she and Alta [her elder daughter]
had been thinking over what she could have read, and she
remembered that Mr Stead had sent her several of his little
books of select poems, among which was Browning’s Flight of
the Duchess. This, as far as 1 remember, was the only one of
Browning’s. Minerva [her younger daughter], however, had
some volumes of Browning’s which she was fond of, being
more interested in literature than her mother and sister. Mrs.
Piper thought she might also have read The Princess or part of
it, and said that Mr Hodgson had given her Coleridge’s poems.
Note written hy Miss Alice Johnson on May 'lith, 1907.
At the Council Dinner on May 26th, I asked Mi.ss Reed
[i.e. Miss E. M. Reed, M.D., an Associate of the S.P.R., who
resided with Mrs Piper during her stay in London] if she
knew what books Mrs Piper had been reading while she was
at 42 Morpeth Mansions, and especially whether she had read
any of Browning. Miss Reid said that she believed Mis Piper
read extremely little altogether, but that she remembered her
looking one evening at a small volume of Browning, belonging
to Minerva. She thought this had ha|ipened three or four
weeks before. I imagine this was a volume of selections,
probably the one mentioned to us by Mrs Piper and Alta [on
May 8]. I gathered from Miss Reid that Mrs Piper had spent
some time turning over the leaves of the volume.
410 J. G. Piddington. [part
Note hy Sir Oliver Lodge written on May 'M)tli, 1907.
Last night I read to the Pipers and some of my family a
poem which had come from America; and then Abt Vogler.
She wanted to know who was the author. I asked the girls
[i.e. Mrs Piper’s daughters] if they knew it; they said they
learned some of it at school, and they seemed to remember
the last verse fairly. I told them that it was Browning.
Mrs Piper then said she knew Evelyn Hojye and had heard
of The Flight of the Duchess ; she did not know the one I
had I'ead at all, and asked its name. I told her, but the
name seemed to suo;o-est nothino-.
I then asked Minerva if she had any volume of Browning,
and she said she had a scliool book, but not here. Mrs Piper
then said she herself had had a gorgeous one given her, bound
in calf with gilt edges, .some years ago ;
it was kept locked
up, and had hardly been out of its box ;
she did not remember
having opened it ;
it was too nice to handle. Her father-in-
law gave it to her, he being in the book business. It was
now locked up in her store-room in America.
Later, when my sons had gone out of the room, she asked,
a little resentfully, why I had catechised her and the girls on
the subject ;
was it to show up their ignorance ? I then told
her that it was for evidential reasons, and this made her
happier. She said she supposed everybody knew Browning
nowada}^s ;
I told her that it was by no means the case, and
that I had not expected her to know—perhaps not even as
much as she did.
I then asked if she had noticed the verse about combining
three sounds. She did not specially remember that, and I
doubt if she caught the sense; it evidently had made no
impression on lier.
LVII.] An Incident in Mrs. Pipers Trance. 417
III.
AN INCIDENT IN MES PIPER’S TRANCE:
Being an attcmi^t to elicit from MycrSp evidence of acquaintance
with a circuntstance in the life of Frederic Myers.
By Mrs Henry Sidgwick.
[T/iis paper should be read in connection toith Section V. of
Mr Piddington’s pagocr.]
After Mrs Verrall had had two or three sittings with Mrs
Piper she asked me if I could give her any good question to
pj^t to MyerSp ,
the trance personality calling itself Myers.
She wished if possible to exclude explanation by thought
transference by asking some question the answer to which
would have been known to Mr Myers, but not to any of us
here now, and which would yet be verifiable. Such questions
are not easy to find and I failed to think of one ;
but as a
second best experiment it seemed worth asking a question of
which the answer would certainly be unknown to any one
present at the sitting. I accordingly wrote to Mrs Verrall
as follows on January 19, 1907 :
I have not succeeded in thinking of any question which could
be asked the Myers control, of which the answer is verifiable
but unknown to any one ;
but 1 have thought of a cqiestion of
which the answer is known to me ^ and almost certainly unknown
to you. When Mr Myers paid his farewell visit to [my husband]
at Terling he and I had a conversation. It was out of doors in
the porch of the house. I am not sure whether Mr Myers had
1 At this time all I had seen of Mrs Piper since her previous visit to England,
IS years ago, was a friendly call I had paid her at the end of December 1906,
or beginning of January 1907, so that we could hardly be regarded as
likely to be in any special rapport with each other.
2 D
418 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
already seen [Mr Sidgwick] for the last time, but in any case
we knew that death must come before many days. Mr Myers
sought that conversation in order to talk about a specific concrete
subject, and he also spoke of another specific concrete subject in
the course of the conversation. Can he remember anything about
either subject and what he said ? I could give further clues if
you think it advisable, but anything I say had better be said in
writing, so that we may know exactly what it is. He should be
pressed for details of what he said—more than a mere general
reference to the subject. If you approve of the question and
would like to have it in reserve in case the occasion comes for
asking it, I will write an account of the conversation, put it
in a sealed envelope and send it with a covering letter to
Mr Piddington.
The following is an extract from the memorandum thus
sent to Mr Piddington on January 22, 1907, and not opened
till September 17, 1907 ;
In August 1900, when Mr Myers was at Terling Place for the
purpose of taking leave of [Mr Sidgwick], he sought a conver-
sation with me which took place out of doors in the porch of
the house. IVhat he wished to talk about was a Memoir of [Mr
Sidgwick]. He was determined that one should be written, had
persuaded [him] to write some reminiscences with a view to it,
had at one time—since the knowledge of [Mr Sidgwick’s] illness—
intended to write it himself, but had withdrawn from this on
account of his own book and the sliort time remaining before his
own expected death. He had then talked to [him] about its
being written b}^ Arthur Sidgwick. He wanted in this conver-
sation to charge me with the task of inducing [Mr Arthur Sidgwick]
to undertake it. He was to be told that H. [S.] approved, that
F. W. H. M. desired it, and leisure was to be secured by . . .
[inducing] him to resign some of his work ....
I omit the rest of the memorandum, as no reference was
made in the trance to the points mentioned in it. It
contained, however, further particulars about the main subject,
which would have added to tlie evidence had they been
referred to by MyerSp ,
and it then continued with the
secondary subject of the conversation, which so far as I
remember arose without previous intention, and which related
LVii.] An Incidevt in J\Irs. Pij^ers Trance. 419
to the mode of burial that should be adopted—a subject ou
which Mr Myers had views.
At Mrs Verrall’s next sitting, on January 21, 1907, she
told MyerSp that I had a message for him. The record of the
sitting proceeds
:
Mrs V. Do you remember going to see her at Terling just before
what* we call the death of Mr Sidgwick ?
(Myers communicating)
I remember going to see her just before he came to this
life. I tried to console her, and was deeply grieved
because he had not improved though I felt it quite
impossible.
Mrs V. Do you remember speaking with her alone, without him ?
Yes I refer to this.
Mrs V. Do you remember where you talked with her ?
AVhere ? 1 will think it out and tell you tomorrow. I
will think it out and refresh my memory.
Mrs V. She wants you to remember where you spoke to her and
what you said to her.
Yes I will certainly think it over and tell you to morrow.
It had been my intention that i\Irs Yerrall should give
]\Iyersp all the information I had given her, so that his
memory, if memory there were, should be clearly directed to
a particular conversation. I regretted, therefore, that instead
of reminding him of the place where the conversation
occurred, she asked him what the place was. The effect was
necessarily to make it less certain which of the different
conversations was referred to (for there must have been more
than one at Terling and more than one out of doors), and
also to divert effort on to an attempt to recall independently
a detail which w’as of no value from the point of view of
the experiment, since it was known to Mrs Yerrall. Whether
any difference in the result would have been produced by
proceeding otherwise it is of course impossible to say ;
at
420 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
any ’rate, what was said at the following sitting on January
22 was not to the point:
(Myers communicating) ^
Good morning. I come again to day to greet yon and
to keep my promise.
Mrs V. Yes : thank you.
I can’t be absolutely sure just now how much I may give
out here of my own feelings and thoughts at the time
or how much I may be able to recall of my past life
and experiences. However I will try and be as explicit
as possible. I believe Mrs Sidgwick and I took a walk
out of doors near some shrubbery where we sat down
for a
Mrs V. What’s the word after “ near some ” ?
Green
J. G. P. Is it “shrubbery”?
Yes. I think where we had a talk about the possibility of
our friend’s coming here. Remember I am not sure how
much of m}^ own feelings I am expressing and [how
much] our actual talk. I remember my grief and ex-
pressing it to her. I recall saying my own loss would
be greater if possible than hers. Yet I would not mind
changing places with him in the least. I hoped he
would pass out without pain and that she would feel
as I did about it.
I express to you more precisely what I think I said to
her, but my own feelings were exactly what I now
express to you. I believe I asked her if I could do
anything to help her. I recall in a general way our
conversation.
J. G. P. (to Mrs V.) It would be interesting to get him to give
Mrs Sidgwick’s side of the conversation.
Mrs V. (to J. G. P.) She is writing that down. [This was a
mistake.]
^ In transcribing this and other passages from the record I have omitted
repetitions, and all remarks simply concerning the reading of the script which
add nothing to the sense. I have also supplied the punctuation where required.
LVII.] 421
An Incident in Mrs. Fiiyers Trcmce.
J. G. P. (to Mrs V.) Yes, but it would be a good thing for him to
give it.
Mrs V. (to MyerSp) Mrs Sidgwick asks me to ask you if you can
recall the particular point on account of which you
asked to see her alone.
I believe I referred to her asking him to write something
and seal it if she felt it would not disturb him. I
believe I remember this well.
Mrs V. One more thing I want to ask. May I ask again 1
Ask it.
Mrs V. One other point besides the first arose in the course of
the conversation. Mrs Sidgwick asks if you remember
that. You understand that I don’t know the answers.
Mrs Sidgwick thinks it better that I should not know
them in order not to confuse the issue.
I quite understand, but I did not understand fully all you
said. Kindly repeat very clearly if you will be so kind.
(Mrs V. begins to repeat her last remark.)
First what 1
Mrs V. Point.
Oh point ! I understand quite ;
another point came up in our
conversation.
Mrs V. Yes, that’s right.
Now let me see if I can recall what that point was. I
remember referring to one or more things but whether
they were mentioned on that day I can’t be absolutely
certain. However, I do recall asking her what I have
previously referred to.
Mrs V. Yes ;
quite so.
And I believe I referred to some work of his which I should
like to have to bring out to live. I believe I understand
and have answered.
I will tell Mrs Sidgwick.
I find my memory rather fragmentary on some points.
Mrs V.
422 Mrs. Henry SidgiuicL [part
Myersp had not so far referred to the points about which I
had asked, and except that the conversation took place out of
doors (which Mrs Verrall knew), I could not confirm anything
he had said. Of course a good deal of the sentiment corre-
sponded with what Mr Myers felt and may have expressed,
though on the other hand there is no particular reason to
suppose that he did put into words what he must have known
I should know he was feeling without his giving utterance to
it. He may have spoken about leaving a sealed envelope,
but I think it very unlikely that he did so on that occasion.
It was too late, and, moreover, I had probably told him weeks
before that there was one. It is not improbable that he may
have referred to unfinished work and the possibility of publishing
it, but I cannot definitely recall his doing so. I wrote to
Mrs Verrall on January 28:
I doubt whether the experiment is worth pressing, but if the
control returns to the subject you might say that I cannot remember
whether he talked of those things in that conversation, but they are
things he would be feeling. The things I asked him to remember
were specific things, both involving action on my part. Perhaps it
would be a prit}^ to give more clue than this at prresent, but I will
if you like. Should you like me to fix my mind on the things
to-morrow morning so far as I can, on the chance of the cpiestion
coming up at the sitting 1
If my thinking of the questions had had any effect it would
of course have reduced the experiment to one in telepathy; but
as a matter of fact, though the question was referred to at the
sitting of January 29, no progress was made. The following
is the record of what was said ;
—
(Myers communicating)
Now tell me about my talk with her. I must understand
whether I talked this over with her on that day or at
some other time.
Mrs V. I will tell you. Mrs Sidgwick thinks that on that day i
you and she said such things ;
but that was not what
she wanted you specially to remember.
1 This was a mistake. I am inclined to think the contrary.
lvil] 423
An Incident in Mrs. Pipers Trance.
Well if I am alive at all I do certainly recall mentioning
this to her.
Mrs V. Yes: she says she is sure that you spoke on that subject;
but she wants you to recall two specific things in your
conversation with her at Terlin" which led to action on
O
her part.
Let me think this over more carefully and I can be trusted
I believe to reproduce it here as soon as I sufSciently recall.
The next reference to the subject was on February 5, when
Mr Piddington introduced it. He was at the moment the only
sitter.
J. G. P. Is that M}’ers ?
(Myers communicating)
Yes.
J. G. P. You remember when I put you a question in which the words
“seances” and “ Leckhampton ” occurred you did not at
first understand them.
I did not hear them very well.
J. G. P. Well, I think it possible that in the same way you did not
catch a word that occurred in the question put to you by
Mrs Yerrall on behalf of Mrs Sidgwick.
\Yhat was it 1 I may be better able to understand more
than at that time.
J. G. P. The word I think you may not have caught was “ Terling ”
(repeating the word distinctly once or twice). Terling
is the home of Lord Eayleigh.
Oh yes. I positivel}’ never heard, i.e. to grasp the word
before. You are right in this. I understand now and
will go over that interview and if you refer to this I will
give my answer tomorrcnc?-
^ Though Myersp accepts the suggestion that his not catching the word Terling
was a cause of difficulty, I do not think it really was. The important point w'as
that the conversation took place very shortly before my husband’s death. This
Myersp understood, as is shown by his answers to ^Irs Yerrall, and no such con-
versation could have taken place except at Terling.
424 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
MyerSp accordingly recurred again to the subject the next
day (Feb. 6) when Mr Piddington was having a sitting alone
with Mrs Piper.
^
(Myers communicating)
I [I’emember] “ the name of the place to which you referred
last time and I should say with regard to it that I remem-
ber vaguely making a suggestion to Mrs Sidgwick regarding
a certain document which I thought she would find neces-
sary to be attend to.
J. G. P. Is that “be attended to”?
Look into in case our good friend came over here. Besides
I referred to matter pertaining to the College if I remember
rightly; also a library matter which slie will recall Cjuickly.
J. G. P. Yes, I will tell her.
I feel sure of the distinction between the places, i.e. my talk
with her at T. and my own house.
Eegarded as guesses at the answers to my question these are
neither true nor plausible, but perhaps they were not all meant
to be referred to that conversation. MyerSp clearly had two
conversations in view^ Unfortunately, however, I cannot recall
any conversation on these subjects between Mr Myers and myself.
The question whether “ library ” was simply a bad guess at the
subject of the Terling conversation or not cannot be thus briefly
dismissed because of the cross-correspondence concerning it which
Mr Piddington has fully discussed (v. pp. 46-59). I will
briefly recall the facts here. On February 4, 1907, Myersy said
in Mrs Verrall’s script
:
Give the message I gave but was it understood ? On the
Council I asked and she said Yes. Tell Mrs Sidgwick
that and something about the Gurney Library which I
think she will remember or a Gurney memorial, which
she was to take over. I will give the message elsewhere
too to day but this is easier than the other place. The
signature might help H. Sidgwick.
We have tried for that to day. Wait for their answer
F. W. H. M.
'Mr M'Dougall was present, but only as an oiilooker.
^“Remery’’ was written, but “ remember ” must have been meant.
LVII.] An Incident in Mrs. Piper s Trance. 425
On February 5 and 6 Myersp wrote as above quoted in
Mrs Piper’s script. On February 11 —the sitting with Mrs
Piper following that of February 6 —Mr Piddington said to
MyerSp
:
J. G. P. You will remember that at our last meeting you said that
one of the subjects of the conversation between you and
Mrs Sidgwick was connected with a library.
(Myers communicating)
Yes, I recall.
Mr Piddington then went on to refer to a message from
0 O
IMyerSy about a library having come through Mrs Verrall’s script,
and to ask MyerSp to say what had appeared there
;
J. G. P. I want you to tell me, if you can, how your message came out.
(Myers communicating)
Yes I am aware of this but just how much she understood
1 am not sure. But what I do wish her to understand
is that during my conversation with Mrs S. the library
was referred to as an important transaction, as I feel sure
I recall it and wish very much to impress it upon Mrs V.
so as to confirm my utterances here.
J. G. P. Yes, I see.
I think she wrote or got the message that he S. was glad or
pleased about the library. What I said to her was. Write
for Mrs Sidgwick that we talked about library.
A little later on in the sitting, and in spite of Mr Piddington’s
denial that my name had occurred in Mrs Verrall’s script (he
was thinking of another piece of Mrs A^errall’s script concerning
library, viz. that of February 6), MyerSp maintained that he
“ persistently repeated the word \i.e. library] to her ;
also my
own name and Mrs Sidgwick’s.”
The correspondence between Mrs Verrall’s script and Mrs
Piper’s in the matter can hardly be accidental, and on February
11 —whatever we think of February 6 —MyerSp undoubtedly
seems to be under the impression that “ library ” was a subject
of the conversation with me which he had been asked to recall.
We have therefore this difficulty : If “ library ” was a pure guess
426 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
of the Piper trance-personality, how did it come to coincide with
Mrs Verrall’s script ? If, on the other hand, both scripts were,
as they alleged, inspired by Myers, how did they come to make
a guess so much off the spot ?
I wish to suggest another alternative, namely, that neither
IMyerSy nor i\IyerSp originally intended to connect “ library
”
with the Terling conversation at all, and that MyerSp did
connect it on February 11, owing to a confusion introduced
by Mr Piddington’s definitely so connecting it in his first
question. It will be observed that there is no prima facie
reason for supposing Mrs Verrall’s script of February 4, taken
by itself, to refer to the Terling conversation.^ As already
remarked, the Piper script of February 6 refers to two
conversations, and does not say in which of them “ library ” was
a topic. Mr Piddington, however, took it at the time to mean
that it was a subject of the Terling conversation, and framed
his first question on February 11 accordingly. Mrs Piper’s
trance-personalities, in whatever way we interpret them, are
suggestible, and are feeling after information often very dimly
and fragmentarily perceived ;
they welcome any information
that comes to them without apparently caring, or even always
knowing, whence it comes. MyerSp might therefore readily
follow Mr Piddington’s lead and speak of “ library ” as a
subject of the conversation.
In any case, we are left with the choice of regarding “ library”
as a bad guess at the subject of the Terling conversation super-
normally connected with a similar bad guess in Mrs Verrall’s
script, or of regarding it as altogether unconnected with the
episode at present under discussion. I shall quote all further
references to supposed conversations about libraries between
Mr Myers and myself, so that the reader may have everything
before him ;
but the subject is never again definitely connected
with the Terlin" conversation.
O
^ I do not know that Mrs Verrall did connect the two at first. If she did,
she thought the guess so had that she did not send it to me. But when she
saw the record of Mrs Piper’s script of February 6, she, like Mr Piddington,
took it to mean that “library” was mentioned as a subject of the conversation,
and she annotated it thus: —“Note that my script, which seems to have
been guessing on its own account about Mrs Sidgwick’s conversation, suggests
‘Gurney Library’ as a topic.”
LVii.] An Incident in Mrs. Pipers Trance. 427
Both the “library” and the “document” reappear at the
sitting of February 13, the first sitting at which I was myself
present. As the object of my presence was to learn how to
manage the sittings, in order to be able to take Mr Piddington s
place later, I had been introduced to the trance-personalities in
my own name. After some other talk, MyerSp wrote :
Mrs S. my dear good friend did you understand my reference
to library 1
E. M. S. To the Gurney Library ?
^
Yes.
E. M. S. I did not understand it well.
I wdll explain as we understand each other better. My
reference to another light explains my understanding hex-
message.
Further conversation follows and he then continues :
Do you remember my reference to my old friend, which
was-—I long to meet him again. It would be joy.
Whose warm sympathetic encouragement kept my pen
in motion so to speak—from being idle.
I see you a little clearer now.
Do you recall my saying I would rather it be myself than
him ? I said this to you just before he came.
Can you recall my reference to your—to a document
which concerned you after our good friend left 1
And you said it did not matter so long as you gave the
library. I thought it a good suggestion, as it would
serve as a memoriam [sic].
(Eector communicating)
He wishes to know if you understand (E.)
^This was said in ignorance of the fact that J. G. P. had asked MyerSp to
state what particular library had been referred to by Myersv- I believe, too,
that while I knew that “library” had been referred to in both scripts, I had
not realised that the Gurney library had been mentioned in Mrs Verrall’s
only.
428 Mrs. Henry Sidgiuiclc. [part
E. M. S. I do not understand very well. I do not remember about
the library.
(Myers communicating)
Dont you remember a letter I wrote to you about it before
I went away and you replied that you thought my
suggestion a good one ?
The “ Library ” and the “ document ” seem here to be dis-
sociated from the conversation at Terling. I can make nothing
of them and have no letters throwing light on them. At
the next sitting at which I was present—February 20
—
the library was again referred to. Myersj^, urged me to look
again for a letter referring to it and said :
“ I distinctly
remember writing you or talking with you and I believe I
wrote about adding some of your own books to the College
Library.” I do not think it likely that Mr Myers and I
either talked or corresponded on this subject ;
and certainly
if it had been mentioned between us, it would not have been
in a way to make any particular impression on either of us.
The only reference to the Terling conversation at this sitting
was the following remark by MyerSp :
—“ I am most anxious to
get my answer to you with deep sincere and coherent
meaning.”
The next time it was referred to was on March 20, when
I was for the first time having a sitting with Mrs Piper with
no one else present. I had, since February 20, taken charge
of several sittings, but there had always been another sitter
with whom it was intended that the trance-personalities should
converse. On March 20 Myersp appeared almost immediately
and wished to know if I remembered his making a suggestion
to me once about a will. This I suppose is a development
of the document idea of previous sittings. I thought I remem-
bered something vaguely about his own intentions as to some
of his property and said :
“ I think I remember something
about it.” He continued :
I recall very clearly speaking with you about a will and as
I recall it it had to do with our good friend Sidgwick.
E. M. S. I think we talked about his will.
I think I was rather interested and pleased.
lvil] An Incident in Mrs. Piper’s Trance. 429
It is likely enough that we spoke of the will on some
occasion between the death of my husband and that of Mr.
Myers ;
but it was a will of no general interest, as it simply
left everything to me. The subject then dropped and a little
later in the sitting MyerSp said
:
Let me ask you if you recall my affectionate conversation ^
when I visited you at Tarling [sic],- which I had forgotten
about.
E. M. S. Yes I remember.
Yes and my advising you to see about —see [illegible
scrawl here] about his life.
E. M. S. “My advising you to see”?
(Eector, communicating)
I can’t tell you just what that word is. It sounds like
R e V n u a ® of his life R.
E. M. S. R, e, u, n, u, a ;
is that it ?
(Myers communicating)
Yes. It was to write it.
E. M. S. “To write it”? Yes I remember.
Yes, I mean where I saw you and called you out.
E. M. S. Yes, quite right.
It gave me the greatest pain of my whole life,'^ yet in
another sense the greatest joy. Do you understand my
meaning ? I was grieved to lose my friend ;
I felt it
would be a loss ;
but felt that his loss would be his gain.
^This word is not clear. I read ifc “conversation” at the time I believe,
bnt if it is “ conversation” it is very much abbreviated. It may be “ emotion.”
®This is the first time the name appears in the script, and it is spelt
as a person might spell it who had only heard it —not seen it written.
^Perhaps a cross between Eeview and Memoir; compare “remery” (p. 424,
footnote), which may have been a cross between remember and memory. Mrs
Piper had, I believe, had in her hands the number of the Proceedings published
in February, 1907, containing Mr Podmore’s review of the Memoir.
^This, of course, is not true of Mr Myers, and, moreover, he regarded the
separation as likely to be brief ; but it is fair perhaps to take it as merely a
rhetorical exaggeration.
430 Mrs. Henry Sidgiuick. [part
E. M. S. Yes, I quite understand. Can you remember what you
said about writing his life ?
I do veiy clearly. I remember referring to some letters and
collecting them.
E. M. S. Yes, I daresay you did say that.
But it was to my mind the most valuable and interesting
thing either you or I could do. Do you remember this 1
E. M. S. I remember.!
And you said you would give it your best thought.
E. M. S. Yes.
Did it ever seem to you that I should not survive to help
you with it 1
E. M. S. I remember that you said that."
I have survived and so has he.
Some remarks about my husband follow here, and a message
from him. Then I said :
E. M. S. May I ask another question, Mr Myers 1
Do talk with me dear Mrs Sidgwick. I long to have you
speak with me, it is my hope and my joy.
E. M. S. You have remembered very well about that conversation,
but you said something else about the writing of that
Life. Will 3'ou think it over and tell me if jmu can
what it was 1
Did you say think it overl
E. M. S. Yes, I said think it over.
Yes I will gladly go over it in my thoughts, and finish my
recollections when I meet jmu again.
During the waking stage after this sitting Mrs Piper
referred several times to “ Arthur ” and an “ Eleanor,” who
do not really i-emember his saying anything e.xactly like that, hut he did
think it very important that the Life should he written.
-Here, again, my answer is not exactly true. He hoped to help with the
Life more or less, though he did not expect to live long enough to write it
himself, in addition to finishing his own hook.
LVii.] An Incident in Mrs. Pij>ers Trance. 431
worked or talked too hard, to whom he was to give a rest.
“ What is that man with a long beard ? Arthur must give
Eleanor a rest ;
she talked too hard ;
I was afraid that she
would suffer.” At one point the name “ Henry ” wms apparently
associated with the others. This collocation of names—my
brother-in-law’s, my own, and my husband’s—and the implica-
tion of some kind of co-operation between Arthur and Eleanor
suggests that Arthur Sidgwick was the Arthur referred to,’-
and that we have here a first emergence of the idea of his
helping with the biography. On the other hand, there was
no appropriateness in speaking of a need of rest in connection
with me ;
and the remark, “ she’s a bright girl ”, which was
associated with the overworked person, obviously cannot apply
to me. As will be seen presently, however, Arthur Sidgwick’s
daughter is said at the next sitting to be “ a very bright
girl.” This suggests some confusion of ideas. Is it possible
there is a further confusion between the ideas of Arthur
Sidgwick having little leisure for w'riting (see p. 418) and my
being overworked ? It is perhaps worth noting that I had
Mr Arthur Sidgwick in my mind on March 20, not only
in connection with the Terling conversation, but because I had
just arranged for him to sit with Mrs Piper in the following
week. These sittings did not come off, because Mrs Piper was
ill, and he was unable to avail himself of a later opportunity.
On April 2 I again sat alone with Mrs Piper. Her
illness had prevented any sittings taking place in the interval.
Myersp soon appeared, and, after a few remarks about another
topic, said :
Do you remember my reference to you at Tarling [sic] about
my -writing of the life of our blessed friend ?
E. M. S. Yes.
I recall cpiite distinctly my own impressions of what should
be done and was cjuite willing to undertake the task
myself, but you will remember at that time I was
overcrowded with work and made the suggestion that
you should collect certain letters etc. for this purpose.
Do you recall it yourself 1
’A man with a long beard wouhl describe either Henry or Arthur Sidgwick,
but I do not know of any instance of Mrs Pqjer seeing, during tiie waking-
stage, absent living persons.
432 [part
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
E. M. fS. Yes, I recall it4
I should be glad if you could recall the act (1) of our
walking out in the garden ;
and I said it would be to
my mind the most valuable tribute we could pay to him
and his memor}'.
E. M. S. Yes, I know you thought so, Mr Myers,
Besides I believe I offered to give you any help I could.
E. M. S. Yes, jmu did.
I also had in mind and I believe I gave utterance to it that
after such (?) work (?) should have been accomplished the
receipts should go to further a cause in which we were both
interested.
E. M. S. I do not remember your saying that.
I am not sure that I did not apply this to my own
work instead. My memory is fairly clear regarding the
actual facts and my feelings. I also referred to a
photograph at one time, or photographs appropriate for
reproduction.
E. M. S. Yes, you did.
Which seemed to meet with your approval at once.
E. M. S. Yes, we agreed at once.
[This choice of a photograph was for his own obituary
notice of my husband in the S.P.E. Proceedings. The
photograph b}^ Mrs Myers which is there reproduced
was agreed on by Mr and Mrs Myers and myself at
their house.]
I also remember making reference to his simplicity and
earnestness in his life’s work which should be brought
out. And do you remember my deep and tender emotion
when I referred to the help he had given me ?
E. M. S. Yes, I do well.
I live with him to appreciate and enjoy his kindness devotion
and encouragement as I did when visible to you.
Do you remember my suggesting also that this should be
done as soon as possible ?
‘ I do not really recall, however, his making any suggestion about letters.
433
LVii.] An Incident in Mrs. Piper's Trance.
E. M. S Yes.i
To which 3'ou acquiesced. And now let me collect my
thoughts and continue.
IMyerSp then retired to reappear after an interval during which
Hodgsoup had been conversing. On returning he first attempted
to “ go back to old memories ”
—some of which agree more or less
with my recollections, but are not evidential—and then said
:
Now dear friend let us refer again to the book.
E. M. S. Yes I want you to refer to the book.
I remember I asked you to try, and do you remember copy
right, and bring out the work that it should not fall into
other hands. I felt it was your work [or, book(?)] alone
and the exact words I pointed were I believe like this
—
I hade?) unless you take certain (?) on this point they would
lose their value. Am I not correct ?
E. M. S. I do not think jmu referred to cop}wight.-
I do not intend to say copy right, only copies. Rector does
not understand my point ;
I will explain.
Do jmu remember my suggesting to jmu about views (?)
photographs which I thought would be necessary ? And
I think I suggested Arthur. Do you remember about
Arthur and what I said about his giving anything (?) to
assist assisting j'ou.
E. M. S. Yes, cpiite well.
And if you gave it your attention it would be splendid and
just what I should so much like.
E. M. S. Yes, you did want Arthur to help.
Yes, 1 did ask you to get him to help you.
E. M. S. Yes, you did.
I remember it well.
E. M. S. Yes, that was one thing you talked about at Terling.
Yes it was the chief thing.
E. M. S. It was.
And as you asked me the question I felt it my bounden
1 Again not a specific recollection on my part, but it doubtless was what he
desired.
There may, again, be some confusion with his own book here.
434 Mrs. Henry Sidgiviclc. [part
dut}' to reply in such a way as to convince you that I
had not forgotten our meeting and our talk [walk (?)] in
the garden where I suggested it.
E. M. S. I am very glad you have remembered.
I said I knew of no one more capable than he was to carry
out my suggestion. Now did you ever do it?
K M. S. Yes, I did do it.
Oh I am glad to hear it.
I remember Arthur had a daughter,^ but I can’t tell her name
at the moment. Is he [or she(?)] all right?
py M. S. Yes, he is veiy well.
Very bright girl, and capable, I remember. Well have I
answered all about that ? I think I have answered all
about our talk ;
I believe I have covered everything of
importance.
PI M .S. Yes, much the most important things.
Yes. If not please remind me of something I am to think
over.
On the next occasion when I was at a sitting alone—April
8 —there was a good deal of scrappy reference to things said
on previous occasions, an indication probably that communication
was not going easily. Among other matters Myersp referred
to the Terling conversation as follows
:
Did you understand what I said about Arthur ?
And my suggestion about the photograi>hs ?
p]. M. 8. About the photographs ?
Of my good friend.
^
^ Arthur Sidgwick lias three daughters, but I think Mr Myers liad a more
vivid acquaintance with one than with the others.
2 There was at this sitting a similar brief recurrence to the “library,” Init in a
new form. Thus :
(Myers communicating)
Do you remember what I said about the College library.
E.M.S. No, there was a cross-correspondence about it though.
Yes, but I believe I wrote you about my intention of giving some of lay
books to our Society.
E.M.S. Perhaps you did.
You seemed pleased. I remember.
E.M.S. I have forgotten.
LVii.] An Incident in Mrs. Piim^'s Trance. 435
It is difficult to know whether we ouoht to infer from this
that MyerSp conceived Arthur Sidgwick’s assistance to be required
chiehy for the purpose of choosing photographs. His name came
in close connection with the selection of photographs at the
sitting of April 2, but the part MyerSp assigned to him then
certainly seemed more important. It is possible here to regard
“ what I said about Arthur,” and “ my suggestion about photo-
graphs ” as references to two separate points, especially as they
do not run on in the script ;
the second has a paragraph to
itself. This does not, however, always imply an independent
sentence in the script ;
and at the sitting I certainly supposed
that Arthur and the photographs were connected. I believe that
there was in consequence a surprised intonation in my question
—“ About the photographs ” ?—which I indicated in the record
by underlining the last word ;
but if so, it led to no attempt
to remove my surprise.
The last reference at the London sittings to the Terling
conversation was on April 30—when I was not present.
Mrs Verrall was the sitter, and had been explaining another
question she wished MyerSp to answer. He said in reply to her
explanation :
Oh yes I think I understand now. It was a long time before
I understood about Terling [sic] the home of Lady Lay-
leigh. Tailing [.sic] where Mrs Sidgwick and I talked.
This concludes the narrative of what occurred. It remains
to examine whether the episode affords evidence either of memory
continuous with that of Mr Myers, or of any other kind of
supernormally acquired knowledge. As an experiment in
obtaining from MyerSp evidence that he knew something
unknown to the sitter, it was, of course, a complete failure, but
knowledge of which I believe myself to have been the sole
living repository was shown. Was it extracted from me by
guessing and fishing ? Was it obtained from me telepathically ?
These are the questions to be considered and answered as far
as possible. But first we must examine what the knowledge to
be accounted for amounts to. It must, of course, be assumed
that Mrs Piper was aware that my brother-in-law Arthur
Sidgwick and I had together produced a Memoir of my husband ;
and the apparent ignorance of this shown by MyerSp (see p. 434),
436 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick. [part
though curious and perhaps instructive, cannot be regarded as
evidence one way or the other for our present purpose. The
further facts—that a conversation between Mr Myers and
myself took place at Terling, the home of Lord Eayleigh, very
shortly before my husband’s death, and that in that conversa-
tion Mr Myers spoke to me on two specific subjects, both of
which involved action on my part—were the data the trance
personality had to work upon. What Myersp contributed was
{a) that our conversation took place out of doors, (b) that it
concerned the writing of a biography of my husband, (c) that
Mr Myers being very anxious that it should be written, but (d)
not feeling able to lurdertake to write it himself on account of
pressure of other work, (c) asked me to get Arthur Sidgwick
to help with it. It must be observed, however, that what Mr
Myers really proposed was that I should ask Arthur Sidgwick
to vjritc it. That he should co-operate with me in writing it
was my own desire.
This information came out piecemeal—not all at once. Fact
(a) was given to Mrs Verrall (to whom it was, as we have seen,
known) on January 22 (see p. 417). It might have been a
guess, as the place out of doors was not clearly specified and the
number of probable alternative answers to the questions put by
Mrs Verrall was not large. At the same time it was a first
shot, and as such hits the mark more nearly than a guess by a
person unacquainted with the circumstances would have been
likely to do. Any conversation I had alone with Mr Myers
while he was at Terling—in other words, any conversation with
him alone within a few weeks of my husband’s death—probably
took place out of doors. The weather was very fine, there
were lots of places in the garden and shrubberies to sit and
stroll in, and it was very easy to step out of the house into the
garden. One was naturally out of doors when not specially
occrrpied indoors.
Fact (b) (that the conversation concerned the writing of a
Memoir) was the first definite statement about the Terling
conversation made to myself The previous guesses—a sealed
envelope, a work to be brought out (p. 421)\ a document,
'
It has been pointed out to me that it is conceivable that this was a first
approach to the real subject of the conversation rather than a mere guess—as it
might refer to the autobiographical fragment written at Mr Myers’s suggestion
LVii.] An Incident in Mrs. Piper’s Trance. 437
H college matter (p. 424), library (if we are to count this
as a guess)—were given to IMrs Yerrall or i\Ir Piddington
;
and before fact (b) was mentioned MyerSp had had sufficient
means of learninQ that none of them was right. Indeed
“ library ” and “ document ” had been referred to by him in my
presence (pp. 427-8), not, it is true, as connected with the
conversation, but in a way which would have given me an oppor-
tunity of accepting them as so connected, had they been the
subjects in question. Fact {h) itself came out with the provok-
ing want of perfect clearness so general in the communications.
Piector’s inability to catch a word which should havo been
“ memoir,” or an equivalent, gave MyerSp an opportunity, had he
needed it, of developing the idea in some different way and of
denying that it was a biography that was to be written. If I
had not a little later somewhat unguardedly accepted the
interpretation in an unequivocal manner, he might have found
it necessary to put out further feelers. Such a cautious
procedure is characteristic of automatism generally, as well as
of Mrs Piper’s in particular, and seems to arise from a dislike of
being found in the wrong which also leads to bad excuses and
elaborate false explanations of erroneous statements. So
definite a statement so inartistically backed out of as that about
copy-right on p. 433 is, I think, unusual. This kind of cautious
approach to a statement is no doubt often useful for “ fishing
”
—
i.e. extracting from the sitter himself the information desired
—
but it is equally liable to occur when • an automatist is alone
and fishing is out of the question. There is therefore no need
to assume that fishing was intended on the occasion under
discussion, nor indeed that the inability to bring out the word
“ memoir ” was feigned. I have no doubt that Eector does
sometimes feign inability to catch what the spirit alleged to
be using him as amanuensis is saying.^ But though this habit
makes one suspicious, I do not think the present case really looks
like either such feigned inability, or fishing, or even like a
(see p. 418). But from an evidential point of view this possibility seems hardly
worth considering.
' When, for instance. Rector says he cannot catch the letters of the alphabet
forming a name which a deceased friend of the sitter is spelling out to him, it
can hardly be doubted that what is going on is an attempt, whether deliberate or
not, to get the information from the sitter.
438 Mrs. Henry Sidywick. [part
cautious approach to the subject. The idea of the Memoir,
even without the word, is I think more clearly expressed
than it would have been if ambiguity had been intended.
It seems more likely that the automatic personality really had
for the moment forgotten the word, as we are all liable to
do occasionally, and as apparently happened in the present
series of sittings not only with difficult words like “ La
Saisiaz ” and “ Vogler ” (see pp. 367-8, and 373), but with
the word “scale” (pp. 388-391).
I therefore think that MyerSp did specify the writing of a
Memoir of my husband as the subject of the conversation without
assistance, unless it was telepathic a.ssistance, from me. Moreover
it does not seem to me likely that a person knowing no more
about it than Mrs Piper, would think this a probable subject of
conversation under the given circumstances ;
so that regarded
as a mere guess it would be a remarkably fortunate one, even
allowing for the deduction that must be made on account of
the previous attempts.
The successful statement of facts (c) (that Mr Myers was
anxious that the biography should be written, pp, 430 and 432)
and (d) (that he did not himself feel able to undertake it owing
to pressure of other work, p. 431) must, 1 think, be held to add to
the improbability of the whole being mere guess work, notwith-
standing the admixture of irrelevant remarks about photographs
(pp. 432, 433, and 434), copyright (p. 433), and the assignment
of profits to a special object (p. 432). At the same time it
must be borne in mind that (c) is a natural inference from
the already admitted fact that Mr Myers talked about the
Memoir at such a moment ;
and as to (d) that it is not
improbable that Dr Hodgson had talked with the trance-
personalities about Mr Myers’s desire to finish his own book
before he died.
Fact (e) that Mr Myers asked me in that conversation to get
Arthur Sidgwick to help is, I think, more improbable as a guess
or inference. It must, as I have said, be assumed that Mrs
Piper was aware that he did co-operate, but I do not think it at
all naturally follows from this that Mr Myers was likely to have
been concerned in the matter in any way. MyerSp must be
credited, too, for what it is worth, both with the naturalness
and the unambiguity of the Christian name Arthur used by
lvil] An Incident in Mrs. Piper’s Trance. 439
itself.’- Mr Myers, who was an old College friend of Arthur
Sidgwick’s, called him simply “Arthur” in speaking to him,
or to me of him ;
and after his own brother Arthur died there
was no living Arthur of whom he would have been likely
to speak to me without further description. “ Arthur ” when
used by Mr Myers by itself in speaking to me meant Arthur
Sidgwick. The statement that “ Arthur had a daughter
”
(p. 434) is a further true and distinctive statement so far as
it goes.
In conclusion, then, I think that, after making full allowance
for erroneous guesses and for piecemeal emergence of the state-
ments made, the amount of apparent knowledge shown was
decidedly beyond what could be expected to occur by chance,
and in forming a judgement it must of course be remembered that
the statements were made in answer to a C[uestion selected by
me, not by the trance-personalities. Xo one incident—even a
more striking one than thi.s—can by itself prove supernormal
access to information, but this incident does in my opinion add
to the weight in that scale.
As regards the source from which MyerSp obtained the know-
ledge—whether it was from my mind or the memory of Mr
Myers—there is no conclusive indication in the incident.
Thought-transference from me is obviously not excluded, and
therefore unless and until communication from the dead is
established as a vera causa, thoimht-transference must hold the
ground. But supposing that thought-transference from the dead
and from the living were known to be equally probable in
themselves, which should we suppose to have operated in the
present case ? I think it is difficult to say. The main con-
siderations are on the one side that the trance-personality itself
assumes that the information came from the dead, and on the
other that it did not come at all except in the presence of a
living person who possessed it, and then more in accordance
with that person’s views than Mr Myers’s (see p. 436). It
may perhaps be urged that I, the living person, had not
previously shown any power as a telepathic agent. But this
cannot count for much, for I had not previously succeeded in
^ It is the more important to mention this because Mrs Piper in trance,
and other automatists, are apt to bring out Christian names alone in a way
that is ambiguous and not natural.
440 3Irs. He'tiry Sidgivick. [part lvil]
any way as a sitter with Mrs Piper. My sittings with her when
she was in England before were a complete failure. Some new
condition must therefore have been introduced in tlie present
case, and there is no more difficulty in supposing this to be the
breaking down of some barrier between my mind and j\Irs Piper’s
which makes telepathy now possible, than in supposing any other-
change in the psychical relations between us.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XXII
(PART LVII)
1908.
A.
Abt Vogler. See Browning, Hope and Star.
Anagram, R. Hodgson’s : Rats, Arts, Star - 64-70
Arrow, Cross-correspondence 77-86
anros ovpavoi d/cv/rwr Incident - 103, 107-73, 279-81, 291-4, 366, 376-7, 392
Azure and Horizon, Cross-correspondence, - - 161-2, 281-95, 366, 377
See also Horizon.
B.
Balfour, Rt. Hon. G. W., on Committee for Investigation of Mrs.
Piper - - - -
10
Barrett, Professor W. F., Investigation of Dowsing, Reference to - 3
Bennett, E. N., Sittings with Mrs. Piper ----- 28, 370
Blondlot, Professor, Experiments on A-rays - - . - 12-3, 15
Browning. See Hope and Star.
C.
Celestial Halcton Days, Cross-correspondence 103-7, 112, 131,
140-1, 144, 163, 334
Census of Hallucinations, Proportion of Apparitions at the Time of
Death in the ---------- 7
Charpentier, Professor, Exj)eriments on iV-rays ----- 12
Index to Vol. XXII. [part
U2
Cross-correspondence, Experiments in - _ _ . . 19-416
Crossing the bar, Cross-correspondence . _ _ _ 107-72, 281
Cup, Cross-correspondence -------- 179-92
Daffodils, Cross-corresjDondence
Dante, References to -
Diana, Cross-correspondence
Dwarf, Cross-correspondence
See also Giant and Dwarf.
D.
- 233-5, 276, 279
132, 134-5, 163, 248-9, 263-8, 273, 279-81
193-208
- 171, 194-5, 365
E.
East and West, Cross-correspondence 214, 250, 252-61, 265, 271-7, 281
Endowment Fund for Psychical Research, Contributions to - - 2
Euripides, Ci’oss-correspondence - - - - 199, 210-20, 244-5, 268, 278
F.
Fairy, Cross-correspondence ------- 173, 174
Faith, Hope and Charity, Cross-correspondence - - - - 209-10
“ Forbes, Mrs.,” Automatic Writing in Connection with Mrs. Piper - 20-1
„ Sittings with Mi’s. Piper - - - -
20, 28, 209, 296
Francis and Ignatius, Cross-correspondence ----- 35-6
G.
Geryon, References to ------248-9, 254-8, 267
Giant and Dwarf, Cross-correspondence - - - _ . 87-94, 163
See also Dwarf.
H.
H-ILCYON. See Celestial.
Hallam, Arthur, References to 122, 126, 129-30, 138-9, 146, 150-1,
156-7, 279, 281
See also In Memoriam.
Hallucination, Collective, Seen in a Mirror, Reference to Case of - 15
Hallucinations, Possible Occurrence of, at Sittings for Rhj^sical
Phenomena 12, 15-6
„ In connection with Experiments on A-rays - - 12-6
“ Heaven lies about us in our infancy,” Cross-correspondence, - - 209
Hercules, References to - - - - - 213-9, 244-9, 252-62, 275, 281
Hodgson, R., Anagram : Rats, Arts, Star 64-70
“ Hodgson” Control, of Mrs. Piper 19, 23, 31, 45, 56, 77-85, 89, 152,
154-5, 179, 185-9, 193, 234, 285, 330, 331, 370, 393, 413
“ Holland, Mrs.,” Automatic Writing in Connection with Mrs. Piper,
etc. 20-2, 33, 35, 37, 46, 191, 205, 215, 225, 250, 261, 265, 278,
290, 291, 297, 303-4
- 132-5, 165-8, 411
Homer, References to
443
LVii.] Index to Vul. XXII.
Hope, Star and Bi'owning, Cross-correspondence
55, 59-77, 279, 284-6, 292-5, 320-97
Horace, An Ode of. References to 159, lGO-1, 167, 279, 319, 335, 338,
369, 376-8, 381, 386-7, 392-3, 397-407
Horizon, Cross-correspondence - - -
126, 148-9, 364-6, 368, 370, 372
See also Azure.
1 .
Imperator, Trance Personality of Mrs. Piper - 23-4, 35, 48, 152, 288
In Jlemoriam, References to 112, 114, 115, 117-30, 137-9, 145-6, 247, 281
See also Hallani.
“ I wandered lonely as a cloud,” Cross-correspondence - 232-41, 251, 279
J.
Jambs, Professor William, Case of Clairvoyance, Reference to - 4
Johnson, Miss Alice, Recipient of Scripts ------ 22
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper 20, 27-8, 131, 132, 157,
165-71, 195-6, 235-6, 287-8, 296-7, 376-94, 402-3
,,
Sitting with Mrs. Thompson . - - . 38-43
,, (9n the Theory of Cross-correspondences -
26, 312, 351
,, Note on Mrs. Piper’s Knowledge of Browning - 415
L.
L.4T1N Message, The - - - - 70,73-5,146,159,307-11,312-416
Laurel Wreath, Cross-correspondence - - - 47-8, 58, 94-103, 338
Pans Deo, Cross-correspondence -------- 304-7
Library, Cross-correspondence ------46-59, 322, 424-8
Light in West, Cross-correspondence -------241-81
Lodge, Sir Oliver, on Committee for Investigation of Mrs. Pijjer - 19
,, Note on Mrs. Piper’s Knowledge of Browning - 416
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper
20, 23, 27-8, 31, 45, 137, 171-2, 236, 394-6
M.
Maud, Tennyson’s, References to . - - - 243, 261, 271-8, 281
Mountains, Seas, Lakes and Rivers, Cross-correspondence - - 177, 230-41
Music, Ci'oss-correspondence ------ 307-11, 384, 412
“ Myers” Control, of Mrs. Piper 19, 23, 35, 36, 39-46, 50-6, 59, 71-4,
75, 88, 89, 95-6, 100, 102, 104, 126-139, 140-4, 146-7, 152-72, 194,
195-6, 210-11, 220-1, 231-3, 234-6, 251, 268-9, 278, 283-7, 308,
316-23, 330-9, 343-414, 419-35
N.
Newton, M iss. Assistance at Piper Sittings
25, 48, 55, 60, 150-2, 193, 194, 231, 234, 281, 282, 295, 320, 338, 370
A-rays, Experiments on -------- - 12-16
444 radex to Vol. XXII. [part
P.
“Pelham, George” Control, of Mrs. Piper 23, 44, 61, 94, 339-43, 350, 352
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism. See Telekinesis.
Piddiiigtoii, J. G., on Committee for Investigation of Mrs. Piper - 19
„ A Series of Concordant Automatisms, by - -19-416
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - 20, 27-8, passim
Piper, Mrs., Investigation of Trance-phenomena of - - - -19-440
„ Conditions of the Experiments with - . . . oq-G
„ List of Sittings with - - - - - - - 27-8
Plato, References to - - 116, 133, 145, 260
Plotinus, References to - 109, 117-125, 127, 128, 130-9, 145-6, 170,
171, 245-7, 260, 281, 382, 411
Podmore, F., on Committee for Investigation of Mrs. Piper - - 19
Prudens, Trance Personality of Mrs. Piper - - - 23-4, 38-9, 87, 92
Psychical Research, Objects of the Society for ----- 3
R.
Rector, Trance Pei’sonality of Mrs. Piper
23-4, 35, 48, 52, 61, 71-2, 78, 87-8, 96, 100, 101, 102, 132, 148-9,
152, 159-65, 167, 193-4, 196, 221, 230-4, 282, 314-5, 331, 339, 343-4,
360, 362-5, 367-70, 372-7, 379-85, 388, 391, 393, 427-9
Russell, J., References to, in Script ------ lyi, 189-91
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper 173, 184-5
Russell, Mrs. J., Sittings with Mrs. Piper ----- 179, 185-9
31-5, 45
- 132, 134-5, 160-2, 287, 377
- 32-4, 255-6, 259
13, footnote
222-7, 252, 259-62
S.
St. Paul, Cross-correspondence -
,,
References to -
St. Peter, References to - - - .
Salvioni, Professor, Experiments on iV-rays
Shadow, Cross-corresj:)ondence
See also Spirit and Angel.
Sidgwick, Arthur, Joint Authorship of Memoir of Henry Sidgwick,
References to ----- - 418, 430-1, 433-6, 438-9
Sidgwick, Henry, An Attempt to Elicit a Recollection of the “ Myers ”
Control concerning -------- 417.40
“ Sidgwick ” Control, of Mrs. Piper - - - - - -
-19,23
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, on Committee for Investigation of Mrs. Piper 19
,,
An Incident in Mrs. Piper’s Trance, by - - 417-40
•„ Presidential Address by - - - - - - 1-18
,, Sittings with Mrs. Piper 20, 23, 27-8, 56, 75, 130,
136, 169-171, 179, 185-8, 193-5, 210-11, 220-21,
231-6, 268-9, 281-7, 295-6, 297, 307-8, 330, 347,
355, 358-76, 378-94, 398, 402-5, 408-14, 427-35
- 132-5, 168, 172
Socrates, Refei’ences to
445
LVii.] Index to Vol. XXII.
Spirit and Angel, Cross-correspondence - . . . 220-30, 259, 261
See also Shadow. _
Star. See Hope, Star and Browning.
Steeple, Cross-correspondence ------ 38-46, 153, 318
Suggestion, Influence of, in the Production of Hallucinations - - 12-6
Swedenborg, Eeferences to - - - - - 132, 134-5, 160-2, 377
T.
Teleki>’^esis, Unsatisfactory Nature of the Evidence for - - - 9-16
Telepathy, Need of more Evidence for 6-9, 16-8
„ Bearing of, on Question of Survival after Death - - 17-8
Tennyson, Influence of Plotinus on, Eeferences to
108-130, 136-9, 14.5-6, 171, 172, 247, 281
See also In Heinoriain and Maud.
Test Questions put to “Myers” Control - - 108-111,140-3,397,417-8
See also avrbs ovpavus aKipeiv, Latin Message, The, and Horace.
Thanatos, Cross-correspondence ------ 177, 295-304
Thompson, Mrs., Automatic Writing in Connection with Mrs. Piper 20-21, 38
Trance Pei'sonalities of Mrs. Piper. See Imperator, Prudens, and Eector.
Triangle within a Circle, Cross-correspondence
36-8, 70-5, 148-9, 318, 324, 328, 339, 344-6
V.
Verr.\ll, Miss Helen, Automatic Writing in Connection with Mrs.
Piper, etc. 20-2, 32, 41-3, 67-8, 85, 91-2, 99, 325-6
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - 20, 27, 207, 316
,,
Table-tilting Experiments - - - - 248-9
Verrall, Mrs., Automatic Writing in Connection with Mrs. Piper, etc.
20-2, 37, 46-8, 61-2, 81-4, 91, 97-8, 105, 106, 113-6,
145, 175, 177, 181, 182, 196-9, 204, 209, 213-4,
222-3, 227-8, 237, 244, 249, 252, 271, 288-9, 299,
306, 309-10, 323-4
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper 20, 27-8, 100, 104-5, 111,
131, 140-4, 157-165, 167-8, 195-6, 207, 231, 23.5,
278-9, 287-8, 296, 302, 376-8, 402, 419-23
Violets, Cross-correspondence 145^
172-8
Wh
Weiss, Professor Pierre, Experiments on A-rays
Wood, Professor E. W^., Experiments on A-rays - - -
Wordsworth Country, Eeferences to -
See also Daffodils and “ I wandered lonely as a cloud.”
13, footnote
- 14-5
249, 263
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
Paet LVII. Vol. XXII. Octohei', 1908. Price lO.s. net.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
I. Presidential Address. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, ... 1
II. A Series of Concordant Autcmatisms. By J. G. Piddington, 19
III. An Incident in Mrs. Piper’s Trance. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, . 117
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
GLASGOW :
EOBEET MACLEHOSE & CO. Ltd.,
Snibcvsitg
1908.
{The rights of Translation and Reproduction are reserved.]
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1908.
PRESIDENT.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Litt.D.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Rt. Hon, A. J. Balfour, M.P., Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
F. K.S. Professor William James.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. Sir Oliver Lodge, D. Sc., LL.D.,F.R.S.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S. Lord Rayleigh, P.R.S.
George B. DoRR.jj The Rt. Rey. the Bishop of Ripon.
W. W. Baggally.
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Ernest N. Bennett, M.P.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal-
CARRES, K.T., F.R.S.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, M.B.
Gilbert Murray, LL.D.
J, G. PiDDINGTON.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Frank Podmore.
Lord Rayleigh, P.R.S.
!
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
H. Arthur Smith.
Lieut. -Col. G. L. Le M. Taylor.
;
Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
I Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
j
Mrs. a. W. Verrall.
I
V. J. Woolley.
COUNCIL.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - .
-
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., -
- -
1882-1884.
- - 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, . - . .
The Eight Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., -
- - 1888-1892.
- - 1893.
Professor William James, ----- - - 1894-1895,
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., . - - - - - 1896-1899.
Frederic W. H. Myers, -----
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., ----- - -
1900.
- > 1901-1903.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., - - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet,- - - - - - - 1905.
The Right Hon Gerald W. Balfour, - - 1906-1907.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London,- W., are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1.30 p.m.
Proceedings of
The 5ociety for Psychical Research
Principal Contents of Parts LII.-LIV.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.}
Part LII. —February, 1907. Price 3s. net.
General Meeting.s, ........ 355
I. Richard Hodgson ; In Memoriam (with Portrait) :
I. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, .... 356
II. By J. C. PiDDINGTON, ..... 362
III. By M. A. DE Wolfe Howe, .... 368
II. Presidential ^4ddress. By The Right Hon. Gerald W. B.\lfouk, 373
Supplem£nt.
I. Mr. Petrovo-Solovovo on Spiritism. By Walter Leaf, Litt.D., . 397
II. The Case of Sally Beauchamp. By W. M'Dougall, M.Sc., M.B., . 410
XXX ItQ'ClQ'lVS *
“ Henry Sidgwick ; a Memoir. By A. S. and E. M. S.” By
Frank Podmore, ...... 432
Professor J. H. Hyslop’s “Borderland of Psychical Research,”
“Enigmas of Psychical Research,” and “Science and a
Future Life.” By Hereward Carrington, . . 451
Professor Jastrow’s “ The Subconscious.” By Frank Podjiore, 455
Appendix to Part LII. —March, 1907. Pfice Is. net.
Officers and Council for 1907, . ..... 461
List of Members and Associates, ..... 462
Index to vol. xix. ,
. . . . . . . 500
Part LIII. (Vol. XX.)—October, 1906. Price 10s. net.
On a Series of Automatic Writings, by Mrs. A. W^. Veer.^ll, . 1
.Table of Contents, ..... 2
Part I. General Description of the Script.
Chapter I. Introductory, ...... 6
,, II. Form and Style of the Script, . . . .18
,, III. Other General Characteristics, . . •. .47
,, IV. Varieties of Dramatic Form Assumed, . . .67
,, V. Comments in the Script on the Phenomena, . . 84
,, VI. Unverifiable Statements and Allusions, . . 105
Part II. Verifiable flatter contained in the Script.
Chapter VII. Reminiscences and Connexion with Dreams, etc., . 133
,, VIII. Experiments in Conveying Information Telepathically
to the Script, ..... 156
,, IX. Spontaneous References to Living Acquaintances, . 177
,, X. References to other “Sensitives:” Cross-Correspon-
dences, ...... 205
,, XI. Cross-Correspondences—Continued, . . .219
,, XII. Miscellaneous References to Past Events, . .276
,, XIII. Miscellaneous References to Future Events, . . 319
Illustrative Appendix, ....... 340
Part LIV. (Vol. XXI.)—October, 1907. Price 3s. net.
6ener.xl Meetings. ........ 1
I. The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules. By T. W, Mitchell, M. D. ,
2
II. Experiments in Thought-transference. By Clarissa Miles and
Hermione Ramsden, ...... 60
III. Report on some Recent Sittings for Physical Phenomena in America.
By Alice Johnson, .
"
. . . . . .94
Proceedings of the Society. —Continued.
Supplement.
I. Vis-Knut. By Walter Leaf, Litt.D., .... 136
II. Beviev>s :
Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckej'’s “Treatment by Hypnotism and Suggestion.”
By Drank PoDMORE, . . . . . . .149
Dr. August Forel's “Hypirotism or Suggestion and Psychotherapy.”
By C. Lloyd Tuckey, M.D., ..... 156
Dr. T. S. Clouston’s “The Hygiene of Mind.” By C. Lloyd
Tuckey, M.D., ....... 160
Miss Mary Hamilton’s “Incubation.” By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, 162
Part LV. —June, 1908. Price 5s. net.
Geneual Meetings, . . . . . . . . . 165
On the Automatic Writing of Mrs. Holland. By Alice Johnson.
Chapter I.
> >
39
33
3 3
3 3
33
II.
III.
IV.
V.
VI.
VII.
Table of Contents, .
Introduction, . . . . .
First Period ; September, 1903, to January, 1904,
First Cross-correspondence with Mrs. Verrall,
January to August, 1905, . . . .
Fifth Period : October, 1905, to February, 1906, .
Sixth Period ; February to April, 1906,
The Theory of Cross-correspondences,
166
170
176
219
240
265
290
369
Supplement.
Review ;
Mr. Hereward Carrington’s “Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism.”
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. . . . 392
Bound Copies of Volumes I.-XX. of the Society’s Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, or from Mr. Francis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies at half-price, as below, on
application to the Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square,
London, W. Or, in America, to The W. B. Clarke Co. ,
26-28 Tremont Street,
Boston, Mass. Any Part may be purchased separately at half the published price.
Vol. I. (Parts i.-iv. ) pp. 336. 5s.
„ II. ( ,,
v.-vii.) pp. 340. 5s.
,, III. ( ,, viii.-ix.) pp. 500. 5s.
,, IV. ( ,,
X.-XI.) pp. 605. 4s.
,,
V. ( ,, XII. -XIV. ) pp. 606. 5s.
„ VI. ( „ xv.-xvii.) pp. 707. 5s.
,, VII. ( ,, XVIII. -XX. ) pp. 442. 4s.
,, VIII. ( ,, XXL -XXIII. ) pp. 647. 5s.
,, IX. ( ,, XXIV. -XXV.) pp. 407. 4s.
,, X. (Part XXVI.) pp. 466. 4s.
,, XI. (Pts.xxvii.-xxix.)pp. 6.37. 5s.
Vol. XII. (Pts. xxx.-xxxi.)pp. 391. 4s.
,, XIII. (
,,xxxii.-xxxiii.) pp. 653. 6s.
,, XIV. ( ,, xxxiv.-xxxv.)pp. 436. 5s.
,, XV. ( ,, XXXVI. -XL. ) pp. 522. 6s.
,, XVI. (Part XLI. ) pp. 650. 6s.
,, XVII. (Parts XLii.-XLV.) pp. 468.
6s. 3d.
,, XVIII. ( „ XLVi.-XLix. ) pp. 548. 7s.
,, XIX. ( ,, L.-Lii.) pp. 508. 6s. 6d.
XX. (Part
'
Liii. ) pp. 444. 6s.
PartLIV., pp. 164. 3s.
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Private Circulation
among Members and Associates only.
LONDON
:
ROOMS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
20 Hanover Square, W.
GLASGOW :
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & CO. Ltd.
AMERICA
:
THE W. B. CLARKE CO.,
26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass,
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
