{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1phyllis_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Phyllis Probable NDE 6111","mylang":"de"}
          	        Phyllis Probable NDE 6111  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Phyllis Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2885 Phyllis Probable NDE 6111  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was three years old, I had to have surgery to repair my urethra tube.  It was something I was born with that need to be repaired.  

I remember sitting on a high ledge with a girl that was a few years older than I was.  I didn't know her, but felt like I did.  We both were looking down and I saw doctors and nurses around a bed and asked the girl next to me who was on the bed.  She said it was me, and that she had to watch.  Being so young, I couldn't grasp how I was sitting up on this ledge and in the bed below at the same time.  I wasn't scared, in fact, when I looked behind me I saw a playground with lots of kids playing, the flowers and grass colors were so vivid and pretty.  I wanted so badly to play on the playground, but the girl next to me said that I wasn't allowed just yet.  She went to tell me that I had to wait a while and then maybe I could go later.  We sat there for a while and then she said that I had to go back.  I knew what she meant, but I liked being with her and didn't want to leave.  I asked if I could play at the playground now, and she 'no' and if she let me she would get in trouble.  

I remember waking up and seeing my parents and asking them where the girl went who sat with me while the doctors fixed me.  They didn't know whom I was talking about.  Years later, I asked my mom if she remembers me asking that and she said 'yes' and after much thought she told me she felt that was my guardian angel watching over me.  I don't doubt that, but I think I might have passed if only for seconds.  I do remember hearing a doctor say get her back, get her back.  Didn't know what that meant till I got older.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could hear the doctors talking.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors I can picture in my head today... everything so vibrant and clear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Normal.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     The playground that was behind me seemed too beautiful to be real, but it was to me at the time.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy, calm, safe.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Unknown

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   She came to me as a girl about age 10.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     No

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Unknown

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   Only because I was three years old and didn't understand it myself... I thought the girl who was next to me during the experience was real and kept looking for her until I left the hospital.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   this happened to me 44 yrs ago and it feels like it was yesterday

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Right after my experience happened I was in the kitchen with my mom and she was cooking dinner, I had a vision of another woman doing the same thing.  That vision was my mother from a past life.  I know this now, but not then.  I told my mom she was cooking wrong because that's not how my other mother did it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    When I got older I told my mom, she believed me and that's all that mattered.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I figured I must have had a dream even though it seemed so very real.  I couldn't find the girl and I described her to my parents and the nurse and they said no one that looked like that was in the hospital.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know there's an afterlife and that we all have guardian angels watching over us.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1phyllis_probable_nde.html