{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1phillip_nde.html","mytitle":"Phillip NDE 22021","mylang":"de"}
          	        Phillip NDE 22021  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Phillip NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1881 Phillip NDE 22021  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was crossing a four lane highway. The cars by my side of the road had stopped at a red light that was half a block down. I went between the cars on my side and ran thru them thinking that the other lanes where clear because of the red light. I heard the screeching of tires, felt a heavy bump, and felt myself spinning thru the air. I then slid to a stop with my head on the curb and my body in the street. I was looking up at the sky. I could not hear, I was not feeling anything, and I could not move. The edges of my vision were getting closer and closer until finally I blacked out. All of a sudden, I was high in the sky. I could see my body lying in the street. All the people were getting out of their cars. I had a panorama view of the whole area and I was slowly going higher. I saw the ambulance coming. I saw the paramedics get out. They started immediately cutting off my jacket and shirts. It was winter time. They hooked me up to a defibrillator and shocked me twice. At that time, they loaded me up on a gurney and started to put me in the back of the ambulance. When they closed the door, BAM, I woke up. I still couldn't move, hear, or speak, but I remember thinking, WOW, what just happened? I went back into unconsciousness and woke up two weeks later in the hospital with very serious injuries.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Feb. 1973

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Hit by high speed car. The paramedics said they had no pulse or respiration when they got there.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I 'felt' I had no physical body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       High.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     During the initial car contact, everything kind of felt in slow motion, it seemed like it took a long time for me to finally come to a stop. When I was going up it was not fast, only a gradual ascent.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonderment.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Child of God

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Child of God

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I seemed to realize that death is not the final chapter.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        There was no best, but definitely the worst was the rehab.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They just seemed to shrug and say wow.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1phillip_nde.html