{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1philip_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Philip S NDE 7855","mylang":"de"}
          	        Philip S NDE 7855  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Philip S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4065 Philip S NDE 7855  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					On September 27, 1986 I was participating in my second 150 mile bicycle charity ride sponsored by the hospital for a woman who passed away from kidney failure and this memorial ride was named after her.  It was a hot September morning that day with dry weather approaching our area from the north, which would put our ride into a relentless headwind.  Everyone would have to struggle to keep up the speed and pace to finish the 150 mile charity ride before the cut-off time of 12 hours.

Unfortunately for me, a perfect storm occurred that briefly ended my life.  When the 300 cyclists left the Corpus Christi early in the morning, I immediately sprinted in front of the group and went as fast as I could to get as close to San Antonio before the wind direction changed.  Around 45 miles into the ride I suffered a flat tire on my bike and was having trouble changing the tire until a help vehicle came up to assist me.  I lost around 25 minutes trying to get the tire changed.  The crew inside the vehicle said that I had fallen too far behind and they would have to end my ride unless I really gave my all to catch up to the bicyclists who were about 4 miles ahead of me.  So, I rode as hard as I could.  Then the wind shifted.  Since I was by myself, I had to take on the full force of the wind without shielding from others.  I also had to deal with the temperatures, soaring upwards to around 86 degrees. Despite the extra effort taking a toll on my body, I was determined to catch up to the group.

Twenty miles later, as I was traveling on the Northbound side of the highway, the crew forced me to stop.  The were saying that I made a valiant effort to catch up with the group but they had to end my ride under the bridge we were approaching.  So I got off my bike.  I was extremely disappointed because I had been through so much over the past 65 miles.  That is when I knew I was in trouble.

As the adrenalin was leaving my system, I noticed that my body was starting to shut down.  It felt like my vital organs were crashing and starting to fail.  There were three nurses with the crew and they noticed how rapidly I was deteriorating.  They suggested to another cyclist to help me keep moving but it was too late by then.  I was getting dizzy and fell to the ground. As I remembered looking up at the beautiful blue sky with the patchy cumulus clouds and thinking, 'My life is over lord, it is in your hands now!'

I was never afraid during the whole ordeal.  Actually, I was relieved.  I was doing great things for the people around me by getting involved with activities such as bicycle charities.  Yet, I secretly felt this was a cruel world and I was relieved to finally get away from it.  After the experience, my frame of mind during the NDE was crucial because, over the years, skeptics tried to annul my story saying that I probably wanted to live.  Ergo, that is why I had the 'hallucination' experience.  I could confidently counter their assumptions by saying I didn't want to live anymore and was glad to leave the cruel world behind.  My subconscious mind should have allowed me to cease to exist when I died but something truly amazing happened that day!

Although I considered myself to be a 'strange' Christian, I never really understood why I had an atheistic frame of mind during the process of my death.  I fully expected to lose consciousness and cease to exist.  However, my consciousness never ceased.  In fact, it felt like I was obtaining a super consciousness, the same types of 'super consciousness' I observed from the deceased people who contacted me from my past experiences and observations of them.

As I was going through the dying process, I was lying down the same way my earthly body was lying down facing up looking at the clouds and then things got weird.  I like math, but my incident happened in 1986 and I didn't know anything about quantum physics.  Yet, it seemed like I experienced a strange quantum quandary during my transition from life to death and back to life.

At first, I was in my body and then I was somewhere else simultaneously.  It was almost as if my body became entangled from point A, where my deceased body was at, to point B where my spiritual body resided.  I thought I didn't exist, but if I didn't exist why do I still have super conscious thoughts?  During the process of travel from point A to point B it almost felt like my composition fell apart and I became an infinite amount of vibrational string frequencies that became particles of matter when interacted with by an unknown force.  I was unable to grasp my bearings. I was up, down, sideways, Here, There, Everywhere and Nowhere simultaneously in a place that doesn't exist.  So, if I passed through a tunnel or in the presence of a bright light, I couldn't see it because for some unknown reason I was temporarily blinded by my dying process.

For normal people, I would imagine that this type of experience would be terrifying.  But for me (I'm extremely weird haha), I loved every moment of it.  The things happening to me were strange and peculiar, but I was in a world of bliss seeing all the complexities unfolding around me, wondering what amazing thing would happen next.  I was never in fear that I may blink out of existence; I was too happy to see all the amazing miracles that were happening around me throughout my whole ordeal.

Suddenly and as fast as I was traveling through the cosmos, I found that I had gently stopped and arrived on a table or a raised floor.  I was in a beautiful, abstract room.  Although I couldn't see, it felt like a foyer entrance room to an even greater area.  Could this area be the entrance to Heaven, I wondered?

I was never able to see, talk, or move in that area but I was not concerned because my condition felt like it was going to be temporary.  I felt like I needed time to adjust to this beautiful peaceful area. I could only detect from the visions of my mind and then my super conscious mind detected their presence when they came to me.  They gently surrounded me with the unbelievable, unconditional pure love and concern they had for me.  It was so Awe inspiring and the feelings of Home, Family, Love began to resonate from these non-human creatures as they surrounded me.  I wish everyone could experience such love in it's purest form!  I couldn't talk to these gentle, loving entities but I tried to think to them that I was ok and not going to freak out by all the strange and scary experiences that happened to me because by human standards, I am a very strange and weird person so I have an open mind and absolutely nothing frightens me!  Then without warning these loving creatures suddenly withdrew from me and began to bow down.  It caught me off guard and I had some concern that maybe they were in trouble.  But as my mind probed their situation, I noticed that as they were bowing down they had such beautiful smiles of respect and Awe.  They were watching a Great Royal figure who was approaching them!

I was so happy for my new spiritual friends/family that they were able to see such perfection walking towards them.  But then I was caught off guard, because this perfected royal figure was not there to see them. It came to within an inch of my face and smiled at me with the same concern a parent would have for their child after they been involved in an accident.  I still couldn't see, hear, smell or taste, but my feelings returned.   This royal figure just smiled and gently said something to the effect of, 'My child, why are you here?  It is not your time to be here, I have to send you back!'  This incredible figure sensed my concerns and added, 'Don't be afraid when you return back to Earth and make mistakes, just live your life the best way you can and try to show the unconditional love for the people you meet, the same way my subjects shown their unconditional love for you!  Don't be afraid if people believe in me or not, just have faith that anyone you meet will be touched in some way or another from your experience and let me handle the difficult job of judging people if needed.'  I felt this Royal figure gently pick me up and take me back to my body that seemed billions of light years away.  The journey back was so much more peaceful as we headed back to earth. Then it felt like I had entered the atmosphere; the cumulus clouds above and finally to my body where my organs began to work again.

The first words I heard were from the three nurses who were frantically working on me to save my life.  I distinctly heard the head nurse say, 'I can't get his pulse! He has no pulse!  Oh, wait he has a pulse now.' It sounded like she had a sigh of relief.  

There were several tired, agitated cyclists who threw my body onto a trailer.  I kept drifting into and out of consciousness.  I was shivering uncontrollably from the freezing wind.  I kept smiling because I knew I wasn't going to die again because 'it wasn't my time to go.'  I tried to sleep as much as I could while squished from the other cyclists crowded on the trailer with me.  When our trailer was less than 10 miles away from our destination, everyone insisted I get on my bike and finish the ride since they thought I would be upset if I didn't.  I had already had the ride of my life so the finish line everyone wanted me to complete paled into comparison to what I experienced.  I secretly thought to myself, 'Wow returning back to this world is going to be much tougher than what I expected!'

In conclusion, I did travel billions of light years away from my body. I don't know if it was in a tunnel or not since I was temporarily blind by my ordeal. I also had the overwhelming feeling of unconditional Love, Family, and Home comforting my thoughts by extremely loving non-human entities.  There was a royal figure who decided, without my consent, if I could stay with them or not. It was decided I must return back to Earth where I currently and happily reside at; but I wish I could have had the choice to stay there.

The final and most frustrating part of my ordeal is that I am only speculating that the royal figure was Jesus Christ, but it never identified itself to me so it would be wrong for me to say it was Him without a doubt.  Maybe that is where faith comes in with our religious views when we are in a near death experience.  Or maybe that royal figure didn't want us to get caught up in ideals of religious dogma. This religious figure could have represented Jesus, Mictlantecuhtli, Ereshkigal, Cichol, Yeomra, Anubis, Hecate, Odin, etc. but whatever this royal figure goes by, it is certainly the link to our Creator and that is what brings me peace from this whole ordeal.  I hope my story was interesting, entertaining and inspiring for you to live your life to the best of your abilities while we are graced by your presence on earth.

  					Here are the scientific explanations from the NDE (click on the link to read further): 
  					

Simple graph; here, there, everywhere, nowhere                        

Reality - you in vibrational string form                        

Reality - you in containment-collapse                        

Quantum entanglement to explain dual simultaneous existence                        

Another illustration of instantaneous interaction                        

Quantum containment - you are everywhere                        

Another illustration of instantaneous interaction                        

Micro Macro Hypothesis                        

Time spiral model incomplete rotation                        

Time spiral model complete                        

Back to the future time model

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  9-27-1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         overexertion to the point of death  Other 3 nurses stated on the hiway that they could not get my pulse for over 3 minutes!  Overexertion to the point of death.  Three nurses stated on the highway, that they could not get my pulse for over 3 minutes!    I'm sorry I do not understand your question.  I am assuming you mean if my experience was a life-threatening event.  I had no traumatic injury of any kind, I simply over exerted myself to the point death occurred.  When my adrenaline stopped, I felt my entire organs shutting down one by one until I passed away.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Only when I was being returned to my body from beyond.  When I was around 20 miles from my body that is when I started to hear the frantic nurses panicking about not being able to restore my pulse.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I became super aware of my surroundings. I had the ability to telepathically talk to subjects, for lack of a better word. I could feel the souls of the entities around me, and was able to advance my mind from linear equations to quantum equations and beyond this.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As soon as my spiritual thoughts were separated from my physical body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time did not exist there. On Earth, I was approximately dead for three minutes, but when I was at that place, I could have been there for a few minutes or billions of years, time does not exist there.  It almost felt like I was in a Quantum Containment Field. It was like a place where particles of matter becomes vibrational strings of energy occupying the entire Quantum field simultaneously which is impossible in our particle of matter physics where our matter is assigned to a specific grid in the Space Time continuum.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could not physically see anything around me, but I was not concerned because I somehow knew my temporary blindness would pass.  Strangely, though, I really didn't need to physically see anything because I could more accurately feel their presences and their life force that flows around them.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I couldn't hear anything, but I felt this was also a temporary condition with which I was faced. But the ability to feel spiritually and feel the objects around me made me feel comfortable in my surroundings.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I was temporarily blind and deaf when traveling from my deceased Physical body from point A to my Spiritual Body located at point B.  I'm sorry I don't know if I passed through a tunnel.  It was a very disorienting ride to Heaven, but a very pleasant ride back to Earth.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Temporary Blind and Deaf, but I felt the presence of the color white all around me.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     It felt like the place I arrived at was the foyer entrance to Heaven.  There were extremely kind non-human Spiritual Beings who were present.  Also, there was a great Royal figure I'm assuming was Jesus Christ, who briefly came to see me, even though I didn't deserve to take up His time.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Awe, Wonder, Unbelievable Joy, Bliss, Unconditional Overwhelming Love, Peace, Contentment, Home, Family, Security, Purpose, Belonging!

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I believe I was shown, and hopefully interpreted, the missing link from the micro universe to the Macro Universe through Quantum Entanglement, Super String Theory and where a person can find a clue to the fifth dimension through entanglement.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I was in the foyer entrance room where I am assuming Heaven was at, where it was decided, without my consent, that I must go back to Earth to finish living out my life.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian   I was Christian at the time but was fascinated with the occult world since this was the 2nd time I had a near death experience and had several contacts with deceased people.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I was Christian, but because of the Spiritual contacts, I have had over the years, I decided to fully embrace Witchcraft back in 2006 to better understand the occult world and have an alternate way to look at our divine.  Although Witchcraft is not a religion in itself, it is specifically forbidden in most Christian Doctrines, but my directive from the royal figure is to live my life to the best of my abilities and not be afraid to explore the different views that are out there.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   Christian Witch that is very Wicca friendly, as well as accepting of all religions that harm none!

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was relieved I was dying and wanted to cease to exist from a cruel world I thought I was from.  Although I should have the Christian belief I would be transported to Heaven or Hell, I fully expected to cease to exist once I died, that did not happen, I had a super consciousness, traveled through a vortex by a process that seems similar to Quantum Entanglement and finally went to the foyer entrance to Heaven where I sub consciously should have thought of in the first place.  Very strange haha!

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I felt the positive and negative energy I gave to with the people I met.  Almost like Karma, If I had committed a good deed to a person happiness would return to me, if I caused someone pain, their pain would return to me.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   The Royal figure that gently said, 'What are you doing here?  It is not your time to be here, I must take you back to your body!'

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I sensed their presence

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   I am assuming the royal figure I met was Jesus Christ and it was an honor and privilege to have felt the presence of Him and made me even more humble because this magnificent King took time off from His extremely busy schedule to see me for a few minutes!

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Uncertain     Not during this Near Death experience, but I had 2 near death experiences and while I was living my life between the 2 near death experiences I had visions I had a previous life in Ancient Egyptian life, Colonial America around 1660 to 1692 and a Vietnam War combat around 1960 which was 4 years before I was currently born in this body.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     These non Human Spiritual entities although completely different from me, felt like family like they were a part of me and the entire Physical and Spiritual Universe I experienced during my ordeal.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The great Royal Figure I am assuming was Jesus Christ, the Spiritual Entities in my presence bowed down to this magnificent King and I believe without a doubt if I was allowed to pass through to Heaven I would meet the Great Creator as well!

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Being able to observe the transfer process from life to death to afterlife seemed like an incredible Quantum entanglement experience and it has taken me over 30 years to try to understand the process involved during the travel to the other Realm.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     The only instructions I received was to live my life well so that when it is time for me to cross over I will not have any regrets that I missed out on the gift of life that was given to me.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Without a doubt I had a super consciousness, I was also aware of entities that were never Human existing outside the parameters of the observable Physical Universe we are familiar with

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Pagans have a term 'Perfect Love and Perfect Trust' I was so blessed to see what perfect love and trust really is and it is the most amazing feeling anyone could ever have, I so wish people could have felt what I felt during that time!

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I found a beautiful wife to love unconditionally for 25 years to the end of time!  It has helped me tremendously in my marriage to my wife!  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I can simply show a quantum riddle on a paper graph of how it is possible to be here, there, everywhere and nowhere simultaneously in a place that does not exist.  The link to the Quantum Riddle of entanglement from sub particle point A linkage to sub particle point B is through the 5th dimensional aspect of super string theory.  The 5th dimension is an incredibly small dimension that is exactly equal to the microcosm environment of a quantum field that also holds the macrocosm field of a large observable universe from where we are.  This process can be easily illustrated by a simple spatial dimensional manipulation process in graph form that I have available for anyone interested to see. The experiences I had and the possible revelations I sustained during my near death experiences are extremely hard to place in words.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the ex  September 27, 1986 is a day I will never forget from the mundane physical start of an exciting 150 mile bike ride from Corpus Christi to San Antonio to the billions of light years I traveled between the multiverse we are a part of but can't prove yet in o

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have the ability to detect spiritual presences.  Here is an excerpt from my book, written in 2008 to explain three documented cases involving three people that were murdered and visited me. (I want to note that I received this ability to have contact with Spiritual beings from an early age of 6-years old when I briefly died, for the first time in a dentist chair as he was extracting an abscessed tooth from me. The second near death experience occurred when I was 21 on September 27, 1986.)   Day 49 of 366 '3 Terrible Tragedies' Saturday Jan 12  From an early age on, I always had the ability to detect dearly departed ones that needed to be in my presence. Most sensitive children have the ability to detect spiritual beings in the area, so don't be alarmed if a young child you know happens to see a person that has passed away from your family. Do you remember when you were young? Make believe was possible and everything in life was fun and like a game? As you grow older though, life becomes more serious and real. Those magical days are gone and suddenly your rational mind develops, putting doubt about everything you ever believed in as a child? Well I never grew up and still have that childlike innocence, loving everything that life has to offer and playing every chance, I get. I understand about the rational mind and how the laws of physics works on our world, but I also know the importance of imagination and keeping my mind open to fully investigate all things that happen in my life. If I only listened to reason and not accept the fact that there are some incredible things in our Physical and Spiritual world I would not be alive today. I am a gifted athlete but I can't jump up 20 feet in the air to safety, it's just not possible, but that is exactly what I did one faithful day and so glad I didn't listen to reason that day. Otherwise, I would have fallen over 150 feet down a cliff!!! As I got older, I kept notes on the contacts I had from the dearly departed, ones that entered my life for a brief few precious seconds.  If their deaths were caused by a tragedy, such as a murder, I would check the news and look in the paper to compare what happened with my contacts to see if there was enough information to justify that this was the real thing and not some random set of circumstance.  From my experiences with the dearly departed, it can be very frustrating because I am not proficient in being able to hold on to the ones visiting me. Usually my contact with them is only a fraction of a second but in that extremely brief time, I have enough information to know they are there and needed to be detected by me. Some are lonely and need reassurance that the living has not forgotten about them, others had terrible things happen to them and couldn't let go of the living, because it was not their time to go, and there are some that want to relay a message to their loved ones that they are ok and not to worry about them. I understand that this is an extremely controversial view what I am suggesting since some religions feel it is sinful and impossible for this type of contact to be made, but I am only sharing with you what I have personally experienced in my life.  In the following paragraphs of this journal, I want to share with you 3 very precise chilling stories of people that were murdered and came to me for help. I will give you the information of what happened, and then tell you what I saw in the newspaper the following day and let you be the judge if this was a coincidence or an incredible contact with the dearly departed. The stories I am about to tell are pretty graphic, so I wanted to warn you in advance about the following tragedies I was a witness to from the Spiritual contacts in my life: 1a) Back in 1994, I had a dream vision about a young man around 18 that I was walking with on WW White Street. He was scared and wanted me to hold his hand so I reached for his hand and we were walking down the street. I tried to reassure him that everything was ok in my dream vision, but suddenly and without warning, he let go of my hand. He became extremely fearful and started running across the street from where we were.  I couldn't catch up to him but realized that someone was chasing after him, and he was shot in the back of the head just after he crossed WW White Street. The dream vision was so intense, I immediately woke up from the vision I had. I immediately looked up at the clock, which is something I always do in murder dreams and noticed that it was 12:15 am. This vision quickly woke me up and as I was trying to make sense of it all, I felt a spirit running in my room and it went through my body. As it passed my body, it was the vision of the young man I was dreaming about and the moment his soul past through mine, I could hear him screaming and running in a blind panic! I tried to reassure him that the danger he was in has passed and that I was there to help him in any way I could, but he was just too frightened and he immediately left the house where I was living.  1b) the next day I looked in the paper and found out that a young man of 18 years old was shot and killed, just after he ran across WW White Street from an unknown assailant, he was shot in the back of the head when the assailant caught up to him. The paper said the crime happened around midnight, which was within 15 minutes of my vision of what happened to the poor kid!  1c) In my vision, and encounter of this poor person, I got the street exactly right of where he was shot. I got the fact he was fleeing from an unknown assailant right, the time of the vision to the actual crime was remarkably close, the age and gender of the person that was murdered was also right, in my vision. What are the odds I would get so much detail right, one in a million? If so, what are the odds I could get two more cases so incredibly close?  2a) In 1997 I had a dream of about two young Indian girls that were suddenly surrounded by several men and they were trapped with no way to escape. One of the girls was holding an infant son, while the other girl was by her side. One of the men was angry with the young girl holding her infant son and began yelling at her. Without warning, he pulled a gun and shot her in the head instantly killing her and she fell to the ground. The other young girl managed to run away in the confusion, but the man shot her in the back of the shoulder and then fled away with the other people that were with him. In my dream vision, she survived the gunshot wound, so I ran over as fast as I could to see if the other Indian girl survived and if her son was ok. Just as I got to the dead girl to check on her son the vision left me and I woke up sweating! I had the feeling that what the poor girl wanted me to do was to check in the paper and see if her infant son survived the gunshot when she fell on him after she died. When I got the newspaper, I would look for anything with the headlines Indian in it and that is what I did the following day   2b) The next day I looked in the newspaper and found that the top news story was about two young girls that were suddenly surrounded by several men. Witnesses stated that one of the men began yelling at the pregnant girl they surrounded and suddenly and without warning, he shot her in the head. She died instantly and tragically, her unborn child did not survive the attack either. Just as the shooting occurred, witnesses said that the other young girl fled from the scene but was shot in the back of her shoulder by the man who shot the pregnant girl, but she survived her injuries, and the man who shot her fled from the scene as well. The thing that really chilled me after reading this tragic story and made all my hairs stand up was the story directly below this one. It was about an Indian Burial Mound that they found in our city!  2c) In my vision, the deceased girl was the one that came to me. I saw that she was surrounded by several men, had no way to escape and was shot, without warning, in the front of her head exactly as the paper stated. My vision saw that she was carrying an infant son, but in real life, she was pregnant, carrying an unborn child, sometimes my interpretations of what happened are distorted, but I think it was close enough to justify this as an extraordinary event. I interpreted that she wanted me to see in the paper if her child survived and to look for a headline with Indian in it. Well just below her headline the Indian Burial story was there and it was so hard to have to tell her that her unborn child did not survive! The other parts of my vision of the other girl being shot in the back of her shoulder were completely accurate and this crime happened within 3 miles of my house. It seems that I have a 5-mile radius when it comes to tragic deaths, so this vision was well within my boundary limits. It is just so amazing at how close everything was to the vision I received that faithful night!  3a) That was a bad neighborhood I lived in and I was so grateful to move out of there to the peaceful farming area I live at now. Unfortunately, there were still murders in San Antonio, but thankfully, I was far enough away from the crime scenes that I could not sense the poor people's murders anymore. Well in November of 2004, all that changed! I didn't have to wake up until later in the day to go to work, but just before 6am, I heard the sound of a woman moaning near my bedroom window. The sound was loud enough to wake me up, so I quickly went outside to check on the woman I heard and didn't find anything by my window. I instantly realized that this was a vision and from what I could sense of the woman I heard, she was sexually assaulted and shot several times by a gun from a very evil person. In my vision, it took several minutes for her to die and the last moments of her life were just terrible. I felt so bad, so I tried to send out as much loving energy I could to the unknown woman and let her know that she didn't have to face this tragedy alone. As I was riding my bicycle to work that day, I started to get visions of her again and noticed the birds in the area were skittish. As I crossed a small bridge crossing a creek, I had a very strong vision that her body would float by, if it were to flood in the area. So I had the feeling she was nearby in this area, but I had no proof. It was so hard, because I feel as if I failed her, since she gave me enough clues to find her remains, and it still haunts me to this day what happened.   3b) (Printed words of ksat.com posted 7:40pm 12-04-04) The body of San Antonio teacher Dianne Tilly, who has been missing for nearly two weeks appears to have been found, police said. The body was discovered in East Bexar County about 150 feet off Scene Lake Drive and Boenig, under some brush next to a fishing tank. (This is less than 2 miles from my home next to the creek that crosses the bridge I had the vision of where her body would float by in a flood!) In later editions, it was reported that she was sexually assaulted, and was shot several times, but did not instantly die from the wounds she received. What the paper said next, bothered me so much, that for over 6 months, I was not the same person I was before the terrible murder occurred, and had to let time heal me from the terrible pain I was feeling for her: Prosecutor: 'What did she say as she was shot? Cruz 'Oh God it hurts, it burns. Bless this child'.   I am a very happy person and my entire life is based on laughter, happiness, and helping those that need me. Having this gift of being able to see such terrible things happening to people can really test me to my limits!!! But I as long as I am still standing and able to breathe, I promise to be there for you in your darkest hour! You don't have to be alone in your greatest time of need, just know I am there when needed! Life is so precious, and everyone has the right to live on this Sacred Earth until it is there time to go. Have faith that there are also people on the other side waiting to help you in your new afterlife, and that the Great Creator will also be there to guide you home if you let him. It is all about choice, and the choice I am making when it is my turn to cross over, is to find the one who created me and be so glad he is allowing me to come home with him. Blessings and love to you, forevermore, and thanks for allowing me to share these true stories with you!

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Very frustrating because the spiritual contacts I receive do not give me enough information to help them solve a crime or pass into the light so I feel this special gift is useless to me! :(

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years, most did not believe me, I really didn't care, my intent was to inspire them or comfort some of the people that were terminally ill to give them Hope that something amazing is waiting for them on the other side!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I briefly died when I was around 6 years old and that first encounter was not a pleasant one to remember, but it was not because I was sent to Hell. I was too young to understand the area I ended up in was the same area I arrived at 15 years later.  I was able to see and run away from the entities that were chasing me, it was decided, back then, that I had to go back to Earth.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Without a doubt, it was as real to me as any experience I had, but let me play devil's advocate because over the years I have had many atheists upset with my experience, suggesting I had a sub-conscious hallucination to live.  During my death experience I sub-consciously wanted to cease to exist, so  darn I was still existing, then when I had the opportunity to go to Heaven, I didn't want to come back to Earth but was forced to come back here against my will.  Although, I am very grateful of having a 3rd chance of life and married to a wonderful woman for 25 years now, I'm ready to go back whenever called upon.  If what I experienced was a Hallucination, what a way to die knowing my last thoughts are going to be filled with Love and happiness with the undeniable expectations of coming back home to the family that loves me.  So real or not, I am set for my death with no worries because of what I experienced!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Without a doubt, it was real even after 30 years of skeptics trying to convince me that under my duress state of mind I hallucinated to comfort myself during the last moments of my life.  Sorry, my friends, you are never going to convince me of that one, my experiences were real and regardless of the outcome, I am so ready to go back when it is my time to cross over for the final time!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   On July 27, 2012, a little after 5 pm, I died when I had a head on collision with a pickup truck.  Somehow, my vision linked up with an infinite number of ΓÇÿme's' in an infinite number of multi-verses.  In some universes, I suffered catastrophic injuries where I died instantly!  In this universe, I was just grazed by the truck, broke two of my right fingers, and totaled my commuter bicycle.  I refused treatment, healed myself to the best of my abilities and raced the next day to take 3rd place in a 50-mile bicycle-practice race heat, in Texas.  I don't understand if this was just a vision under extreme duress or if I witnessed an incredible phenomenon of multi-verse linkage.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am grateful I have been given the gift of life to live while I am here, but I am ready to pass on to the other side!  I am staying here because of my lovely wife that needs me here, but for the other people, am honored and grateful to help them in any way I can, but I feel more like a servant that is required to stay here until it is my time to go home.  I don't know if that makes sense, but as long as I'm here, I'm incredibly grateful for being here and will live my life to the fullest as commanded by my Divine Directive, but I can't wait to go back home.  Blessings my friend and thanks for allowing me to express so many things that have been bottled up inside of me!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       If there is any way I can be assistance to you, I would be honored to get involved in any way I can from email responses, to chats, to attending conventions to answer any questions people may have about the possibilities of the afterlife and conscious energy after our physical bodies expire.  Thanks for having this organization and your interest in this incredible subject!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1philip_s_nde.html