{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1phillip_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Phillip H NDE 3191","mylang":"de"}
          	        Phillip H NDE 3191  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Phillip H NDE 3191  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1223 Phillip H NDE 3191  					  				  			    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

My two younger brothers, R and H, were traveling with me passing the Farm home, and R said run the stop because the Road had a bump and it was fun to fly. I refused to run the stop to his disappointment, but had I done it I would not be sending you this.

After stopping, I could see a vehicle a long way to the north as we were facing east. It was a thirty-five Mile Zone so I had plenty of time to cross. But little did I know the other pickup was going seventy-five mph and the driver was drunk.

Though I was well over the center of the road, this man attempted to cross in front of me, and wound up hitting right where I was in the driver's side. I heard nothing and felt nothing.

I found myself standing outside with a dark gray appearance that darkened my view as I stared and the pickup and the flashing lights arriving from the left. That triggered my awareness of my brothers and I began to cry, 'Where are my brothers,' again and again. In an instant, I found myself with my hands up to my head, blood running into my eyes. I lost consciousness, was in the Hospital overnight, and put on observation at home for two weeks. For years, I was left wondering why I felt that I have been thrown from the pickup. I never told anyone until I was reading about NDE's at the Brigham Young University in 1982 more or less. That is when my long awaited question was understood.

What it did for me was to understand scriptures relating to the human soul. We are an intelligence clothed with the power of spirit created in the image of God in heaven before we are born. At conception, our spirit enters the embryo and begins earth life in the womb. The embryo would be dead otherwise and could not mature and develop otherwise.

I experience a sense of knowing things without any previous knowledge about some people I meet that are complete strangers. At times, I have been given reprimands and warnings by a voice. I know that we are a spiritual being that enlivens the physical body that is a temple or tabernacle for the spiritual being that we are to learn from our earthy experience.

While working in Huston, Texas. I was driving the 610 loop in the fast lane. I have been pondering over my life and feeling discouraged. Out of the blue, I was given this message... (I'm sorry, but I feel that I am not supposed to say anything at this time, I do not understand why, but when I have this feeling it is usually wise for me to follow my feeling.)

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    The summer of 1955 June or July

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   AccidentDirect head injury  My head broke the window and was slached on both sides of my head above my ear.  I do not remember exactly how many stitches I had but 14 comes to mind on one side and a leser number on the other.  Other 'It took place at the accident site.  I thought I had been thrown from the pickup truck at the time, because I for a short time seemed to be standing as witnessing the accident.'.  I received lacerations on both sides of my head I guess when my head broke the window of the pickup.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      It was only a brief experience, time was insignificant to me so was still dazed by the experience though, as I think of it I was quite alert, but I did not have time to observe to many things.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    This occurred between 4:00 and 5:00 pm and the sun was up, but my view of the accident was somewhat hazy and I cannot say if I was standing in the air or on the ground as I was staring into a scene that was like a bad dream.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I remember hearing the siren as it arrived and myself crying and asking, 'Where are my brothers?'

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I did not turn around, and in that short time I was concerned for my brothers that I figured were in the Pickup.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Only the light of day, which seemed hazy and somewhat darker than it would have been, even if two hours had passed before the ambulance might have arrived.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Uncertainty of what was happening and then worry for my brothers who were with me. Though they were safe and had only minor injuries, they crashed against me when the other pickup hit us.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     This happened years later. I was driving back to Houston from a family reunion in Utah. Ronald Reagan came to mind and the thought came to mind that he would make a great President. He was then the Governor of California. When he began his campaign, and as I spoke to Sis where I was renting while I was working. I told this to Sis. She told me that Bush was going to win. A man who was campaigning for Bush lived just across the street from us. I never lost that feeling that Ronald Reagan was going to win.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Yes     The haze that seemed to surround me above and below and at the left and right was like a dark cloud. I never turned around to see what was in back of me; I was intent on finding my brothers.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I learned that no individual or church holds all the truth of all things. That there is a true church and through that church, he will reveal his will as he always has by personal as well as living prophet called by God. That it will be organized in the likeness of the primitive church, apostles, prophets, etc., as it is in the New Testament of the Bible. That the Church will respect all, encourage all to be faithful to their understanding of God as the understand Him. To accept and to share the truth until we all come to the unity of the faith, of Christ and of God.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Church of Jesus Christ of Later-day Saints

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I learned that no individual or church holds all the truth of all things. That there is a true church and through that church, he will reveal his will as he always has by personal as well as living prophet called by God. That it will be organized in the likeness of the primitive church, apostles, prophets, etc., as it is in the New Testament of the Bible. That the Church will respect all, encourage all to be faithful to their understanding of God as the understand Him. To accept and to share the truth until we all come to the unity of the faith, of Christ and of God.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   This began to happen years later, even before I learned I had an NDE.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I became more active in my church and while sec. of the Elders, and as I studied my duties I had a feeling come over me, that 'Every member should be missionaries,' which was contrary to what was understood and taught. I was nineteen at the time. The following year, President David O. McKay declared in conference, 'Every member a Missionary' that was the first time that a premonition like that happened that I can recall. Since then they have continued, but sometimes I did not know how to recognize what was meant, or what to do. I made mistakes, but I have learned to do better.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I did not share my experience until I learned what it was, and what I saw of the landscape is blurry on detail.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     While I was working in Texas, my wife and children were in Mexico. It was in November and I would ride my bicycle to and from work, and I wanted us to spend Christmas in Houston. She could drive up and have a short vacation. I was unable to convince her.

One night while pondering what to do, a voice came into my mind, 'Go and get you children.' It startled me. Thinking that was only in my head, I responded I want to bring my wife too. Then in response to what I had said, the voice responded, 'If you think you can.' Now, that answer took me of guard, and caused me to worry. This is the outline of what followed.

There was no way that I could leave my work. I did not have enough money because I was sending all my excess to my wife.

I developed an abscess on the middle finger of my right hand, and the doctor said I could not work with food for two weeks. I called my brother and he sent me enough to get by. It wasn't until I received the money that I would have enough to go to Monterrey and spend Christmas. I had the nagging feeling that our marriage was in trouble though.

On the bus as we were passing close the our home, the voice came to me and said, 'Don't worry. Go straight home. You will find everything you will need there.' A peace came over me as I was assured it was so.

My wife had left for Tulandsingo, Mexico the night before with a boyfriend in our car. After three days, she got the message that I had arrived in Monterrey. When they got back, they drove by the house and down to her mother's house. When she returned, we walked through the front door and stridently walked into the living room, knocking all our marriage pictures over, and said, 'I do not want this marriage any more, and I do not want the children, take them.' Then she handed me the key to the car. That is the saddest day of my life. We packed our things, and Christmas Eve we drove back to Houston, Texas. My tears were blinding and two times, I took the wrong road, but we arrived late that evening.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I realized just how much I loved my family, which overflows to everyone I meet, becomes a part of my family. Love became something to give more that to receive.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I have shared it with some of my family, brothers and sisters, and friends and even to strangers as an object lesson of life after death.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     I did not know how to explain something that would likely be brushed off by everyone. But the wonder of it stayed with me, until I learned it is a reality years later.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     I did not know how to explain something that would likely be brushed off by everyone. But the wonder of it stayed with me, until I learned it is a reality years later.

I know now that we are a spiritual being having an earthly experience and not the other way around.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Uncertain   Medication, drugs have never played a role in my life.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      I admit that I am a poor speller, and typing is not free of typos. So a spell checker in the various languages are available. That would help. But I am pleased that you have done this and really care.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1phillip_h_nde.html