{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V23 1909","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v23_1909.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V23 1909","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXIII
(CONTAINING PARTS LVIII-LIX)
1909
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1909
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW : JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved
3 5 3 > 0
CONTENTS.
PAET LVIII.
June, 1909.
General Meeting, - -- -- -- -- - l
I. Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. By Professor
William James.
Part L, - - 2
Part II., ---------- 30
II. Note on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson -Control in England in 1906-7.
By Mrs. H. Sidgwick and J. G. Piddington, - - - 122
III. Report on some Trance Communications received chiefly through
Mrs. Piper. By Sir Oliver Lodge.
Table of Contents, - - 127
Introduction, - - 128
Chapter I. Explanatory and Historical, - - 130
„ II. The Gurney Control, - 140
„ III. The Isaac Thompson Case, - - 162
IV. The Myers Control, - - 198
,, V. Messages obtained through Miss Rawson, - 219
„ VI. Messages from the Myers and Hodgson
Controls of Mrs. Piper, Autumn, 1906, - 226
„ VII. The Myers and Hodgson Controls of Mrs.
Piper, Spring, 1907, - - 248
„ VIII. The Joseph Marble Series, - 255
„ IX. Supplementary Remarks, - - 280
IV. Psychical Research and Survival after Bodily Death. By Pro-
fessor A. C. Pigou, -------- 286
PART LIX.
November, 1909.
General Meeting, ---------- 305
Introductory Note to the " Report on Sittings with Eusapia
Palladiuo," --------- 306
106330
iv Contents
t t c < ft 1
1
e c c t e ( ct''< t
v
c
1
c e » • c rAuai
Report on a Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. By the Hon.
Everarp Ffilding. W. W. Bagg almt, *aR<?l< .Hereward
Carrington. : t
c
c "c 5 J : :
Table of Contents, - . - 309
I. Introduction.
Preliminary, ------ 310
Historical, - - - - - - - - - 311
Object of the Present Investigation, - - - - 318
The Investigating Committee - - 319
II. General Account of the Sittings.
The Seance Room, ...... 321
Conduct of the Seances, ------ 323
The Control,- 325
The Phenomena, - ------ 328
Conclusions, -- ----- - 340
III. Detailed Report.
Measurements, - ------ 345
Seance I., - -- -- -- -- 346
„ II, -------- 358
„ III, - 375
„ IV, --------- 399
„ V, --------- 418
„ VI, - 440
„ VII,- ------- 463
„ VIII, -------- 484
„ IX, 505
The Bell Incident, - - - 525
Seance X, - -- -- -- -- 527
. „ XL, -------- 536
IV. Individual Conclusions of the Investigators.
Final Note by Here ward Carrington, - - 555
W. W. Baggally, - 556
„ the Hon. Everard Feilding, - - - 566
Supplement.
M. Courtier's Report on the Experiments with Eusapia
Palladino at the Paris Institut General Psychologique.
Ey Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, 570
Index to Vol. XXIII, ------ 590
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LVIII.
June, 1909.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETING.
The 133rd General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Thursday,
January 28th, 1909, at 5 p.m.; the President, Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, in the chair.
Professor William James's " Preliminary Report on Mrs.
Piper's Hodgson-Control," forming Part I. of the paper printed
below, was read by Mr. J. G. Piddington.
A
2 Professor William James. [part
I.
EEPOET ON MRS. PIPER'S HODGSON-CONTROL.
PART I.
1
By Professor William James.
Richard Hodgson died suddenly upon December 20th, 1905.
On December 28th a message purporting to come from him
was delivered in a trance of Mrs. Piper's, and she has hardly
held a sitting since then without some manifestation of what
professed to be Hodgson's spirit taking place. Hodgson had
often during his lifetime laughingly said that if he ever
passed over and Mrs. Piper was still officiating here below,
he would control her better than she had ever yet been
controlled in her trances, because he was so thoroughly
familiar with the difficulties and conditions on this side.
Indeed he was ; so that this would seem prima facie a
particularly happy conjunction of spirit with medium by which
to test the question of spirit return.
I have collated 69 of the American sittings (the latest being
that of January 1st, 1908) in which the professed R. H. has
appeared (his communications forming possibly a sixth of the
total bulk of the records), and a few remarks as to my own
relation to the phenomenon would seem a good introduction
to what follows. I have no space for twice-told tales, so I will
assume that my readers are acquainted, to some degree at
any rate, with previously printed accounts of Mrs. Piper's
1
This report was prepared to be read at the General Meeting of the Society,
on January 28th, 1909. To make a single document by distributing its material
through the larger report would cost much labor, so the two parts are printed
separately, but readers will understand that they should be read in conjunction.
LVlil.] Report on Mrs. Piper s Hodgson-Control. 3
mediumship. 1
I had myself had no sitting with Mrs. Piper
and had hardly seen her for some nine years, but for most
of that time I had been kept informed of what was going
on by reading the typed records, furnished me by my friend
Hodgson, of all the trances of which report was taken, and
for which the sitters had not asked secrecy to be observed.
The " Control " most frequently in evidence in these years
has been the personage calling himself " Hector." Dr. Hodgson
was disposed to admit the claim to reality of Eector and of
the whole Imperator-Band of which he is a member, while
I have rather favoured the idea of their all being dream-
creations of Mrs. Piper, probably having no existence except
when she is in trance, but consolidated by repetition into
personalities consistent enough to play their several roles.
Such at least is the dramatic impression which my acquaint-
ance with the sittings has left on my mind. I can see no
contradiction between Eector's being on the one hand an
improvised creature of this sort, and his being on the other
hand the extraordinarily impressive personality which he
unquestionably is. He has marvellous discernment of the
inner states of the sitters whom he addresses, and speaks
straight to their troubles as if he knew them all in advance.
He addresses you as if he were the most devoted of your
friends. He appears like an aged and, when he speaks
instead of writing, like a somewhat hollow-voiced clergyman, a
little weary of his experience of the world, endlessly patient
and sympathetic, and desiring to put all his tenderness and
wisdom at your service while you are there. Critical and
fastidious sitters have recognized his wisdom, and confess
their debt to him as a moral adviser. With all due respect
to Mrs. Piper, I feel very sure that her own waking capacity
for being a spiritual adviser, if it were compared with Eector's,
would fall greatly behind.
As I conceive the matter, it is on this mass of secondary
and automatic personality of which of late years Eector has
been the centre, and which forms the steady background of
1
Chief among these are Hodgson's reports in Vols. VIII. and XIII. of the
S.P.R. Proceedings, Mrs. Sidgwick's discussion in Vol. XV., Hyslop's long
account in Vol. XVI., and his briefer one in his book Science and a Future
Life.
Professor William James. [part
Mrs. Piper's trances, that the supernormal knowledge which
she unquestionably displays is flashed. Flashed, grafted,
inserted—use what word you will—the trance-automatism is
at any rate the intermediating condition, the supernormal
knowledge comes as if from beyond, and the automatism uses
its own forms in delivering it to the sitter. The most habitual
form is to say that it comes from the spirit of a departed
friend. The earliest messages from " Hodgson " have been
communicated by " Hector," but he soon spoke in his own
name, and the only question which I shall consider in this
paper is this : Are there any unmistakable indications in the
messages in question that something that we may call the
" spirit " of Hodgson was probably really there ? We need
not refine yet upon what the word " spirit " means and on
what spirits are and can do. We can leave the meaning of
the word provisionally very indeterminate,—the vague popular
notion of what a spirit is is enough to begin with.
Sources other than R. H.'s surviving spirit for the veridical
communications from the Hodgson-control may be enumerated
as follows :
(1) Lucky chance-hits.
(2) Common gossip.
(3) Indications unwarily furnished by the sitters.
(4) Information received from E. H., during his lifetime,
by the waking Mrs. P. and stored up, either supraliminally or
subliminally, in her memory.
(5) Information received from the living E. H., or others,
at sittings, and kept in Mrs. Piper's trance-memory, but out
of reach of her waking consciousness.
(6) " Telepathy," i.e. the tapping of the sitter's mind, or
that of some distant living person, in an inexplicable way.
(7) Access to some cosmic reservoir, where the memory of
all mundane facts is stored and grouped around personal centres
of association.
Let us call the first five of these explanations " natural," and
the last two " supernatural " or " mystical." It is obvious that
no mystical explanation ought to be invoked so long as any
natural one remains at all plausible. Only after the first five
explanations have been made to appear improbable, is it time
lviil] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 5
for the telepathy-theory and the cosmic-reservoir theory to be
compared with the theory of B. H.'s surviving spirit.
The total amount of truthful information communicated by
the E. H. control to the various sitters is copious. He reminds
them, for the most part, of events—usually unimportant ones
which they and the living E. H. had experienced together.
Taking any one of these events singly, it is never possible in
principle to exclude explanations number 1 and 4. About
number 3, a complete record of the sitting ought generally
to decide. Number 2 is often excluded either by the trivial
or by the intimate nature of the case. Number 5 would be
easily settled if the records of the sittings of the living Hodgson
with Mrs. Piper were complete and accessible. They are
supposed, for the past ten or twelve years at least, to exist in
complete form. But parts of them are in Hodgson's private
cipher, and they are now so voluminous that it would be rash
to say of any recent message from Hodgson, so long as the
matter of it might conceivably have been talked of at any
previous trance of Mrs. Piper's, that no record of such talk
exists. It might exist without having yet been found.
Add, to these several chances that any communication of
fact by the Hodgson-control may have had a natural source,
the further consideration that Mrs. Piper had known H. well
for many years, and one sees that her subliminal powers of
personation would have had an unusually large amount of
material to draw upon in case they wished to get up a make-
believe spirit of Hodgson. So far, then, from his particular
case being an unusually good one by which to test the claim
that Mrs. Piper is possessed during her trances by the spirits
of our departed friends, it would seem to be a particularly poor
one for that purpose. I have come to the conclusion that it
is an exceptionally poor one. Hodgson's familiarity when in
the flesh with the difficulties at this end of the line has not
made him show any more expertness as a spirit than other
communicators have shown ; and for his successes there are
far more naturalistic explanations available than is the case
with the other spirits who have professed to control Mrs. Piper.
So much for generalities, and so much for my own personal
equation, for which my various hearers will make their sundry
kinds of allowance. But before taking up the messages in
6 Professor William James. [part
detail, a word more about the fourth of the naturalistic explana-
tions which I have instanced (conversations, that is, between
Mrs. Piper and Hodgson when alive) is in order. Abstractly, it
seems very plausible to suppose that E. H. (who systematically
imposed on himself the law of never mentioning the content
of any trance in her waking presence) might have methodically
adopted a plan of entertaining her on his visits by reciting all
the little happenings of his days, and that it is this chronicle
of small beer, stored in her memory, that now comes out for
service in simulating his spirit-identity.
In the concrete, however, this is not a highly probable
hypothesis. Every one who knew Hodgson agrees that he was
little criven to anecdotical small change, unless the incident
were comic or otherwise of an impressive order, and that his
souvenirs of fact were usually of a broad and synthetic type.
He had had a " splendid time " at such a place, with a
" glorious " landscape, swim, or hill-climb, but no further
detail. Gifted with great powers of reserve by nature, he
was professionally schooled to secretiveness ; and a decidedly
incommunicative habit in the way of personal gossip had become
a second nature with him,—especially towards Mrs. Piper. For
many years past he had seen her three times weekly (except
during the months of her summer vacation) and had had to
transcribe the record afterwards. The work was time-consuming,
and he found it excessively fatiguing. He had economized
energy upon it by adopting for many years past a purely busi-
ness tone with the medium, entering, starting the trance, and
leaving when it was over, with as few unnecessary words as
possible. Great brusqueric was among the excellent P. H.'s
potentialities, and for a while the amount of it displayed towards
Mrs. P. led to a state of feeling on her part which a New York
Herald reporter once took advantage of to exploit publicly.
R. H. was remonstrated with, and was more considerate
afterwards. It may well be that Mrs. Piper had heard one
little incident or another, among those to be discussed in the
following report, from his living lips, but that any large mass of
these incidents are to be traced to this origin, I find incredible.
The spirit-Hodgson's first manifestion was, as I have said,
eight days after his death. There was something dramatically
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper s Hodgson-Control. 7
so like him in the utterances of those earliest days, gradually
gathering "strength" as they did, that those who had cognizance
of them were much impressed. I will begin by a short account
of these earliest appearances, of which the first was at Miss
Theodate Pope's sitting on Dec. 28th, 1905. At this sitting
Rector had been writing, when the hand dropped the pencil and
worked convulsively several seconds in a very excited manner.
Miss P. What is the matter ?
[The hand, shaking with apparently great excitement, wrote
the letter H, . . . bearing down so hard on the papei
that the point of the pencil was broken. It then wrote
" Hodgson."]
Miss P. God bless you !
[The hand writes "I am"—followed by rapid scrawls, as
if regulator of machine were out of order.]
Miss P. Is this my friend
1
?
[Hand assents by knocking five times on paper-pad.]
(Rector.) Peace, friends, he is here, it was he, but he could
not remain, he was so choked. He is doing all in his
power to return .... Better wait for a few moments
until he breathes freer again.
Miss P. I will.
(R.) Presently he will be able to conduct all here.
Miss P. That is good news.
(R.) Listen. Everything is for the best. He holds in his
hand a ring. ... He is showing it to you. Cannot you
see it, friend 1
Miss P. I cannot see it. Have him tell me about it.
(R.) Do you understand what it means?
Miss P. I know he had a very attractive ring.
(R.) Margaret.
"All" was then written, with a "B" after it, and Miss P. asked
"what is that?" "A," "B" and "L" followed, but no explanation.
[The explanation will be given later.]
8 Professor William James. [part
The above is the whole of the direct matter from Hodgson
at this, the first of the sittings at which he has appeared.
(For the sequel to this ring-episode, see pp. 13-18.)
At Miss Pope's next sitting (five days later), after some talk
about him from Rector, E. H. appeared for the second time,
and in the character, familiar to him, of being a well-spring
of poetical lore. Mrs. Piper's hand cramped most awkwardly,
first dropped and then broke the pencil. A new one being-
given, the hand wrote as follows :
RICHARD HODGSON I AM WELL HAPPY GLAD I CAME GOD BLESS POPE
Miss Pope. Many thanks. [Then the hand wrote :
—
It lies not in her form or face
Tho these are passing fair,
Nor in the woman's tone of grace,
Nor in her falling hair ;
It lies not in those wondrous eyes
that swiftly light and shine,
Tho all the stars of all the skies
Than these are less divine.
I am only practicing.
Miss P. Who wrote it ?
(Rector.) Richard only.
Miss P. When ?
Now.
Miss P. Doesn't it exist on paper in our world ?
No.
Miss P. Did you really make that up 1
Yes.
Miss P. Well, you are clever.
If you ever find this in your world, never believe in this
world !
Miss P. I shall look for it, you may be sure.
Good ! Think I'm asleep ] Not much ! My head. I must-
leave you now.
(Rector.) It is impossible for us to hold him—that is all.
lviil] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 9
Miss P. Rector, did he dictate that poem to you? ... Do you
think he made it upl
(Rector.) I do positively know he did . . . Farewell !
At the second sitting after this (Jan. 8th, 1906), Miss Pope
again being the sitter, E. H. appeared again, writing as follows :
I am Hodgson ... I heard your call—I know you—you
are Miss Pope. Piper instrument. I am happy exceed-
ingly difficult to come very. I understand why Myers
came seldom. I must leave. I cannot stay. I cannot
remain to-day. . . .
(A tobacco-pouch that had belonged to Hodgson was presently
given to the Medium as an "influence," when the writing
went on :
—
I am in the witness-box, do you remember ? —Do you remem-
ber my promise to shake you up 1
Miss P. I once asked Geo. P[elham] to "shake me up."
No, I do not mean that.
Miss P. What do you mean ?
I said that if I got over here first I would soon learn how to
communicate. —I would not make a botch of it.
Miss P. I remember—indeed you did.
I am certainly P. H. I am sure. I have joined dear old
G. Pelham, who did so much for me—more than all the
rest put together.
[After a few words in Pector's name, a brush that had
belonged to Hodgson was put into the medium's hand.]
Pemember my theory about objects'?
Miss P. What was it 1
They carried their own light. I was right.
Miss P. Yes, I remember very well.
I see it now, I was right.
Did you receive my lines to Miss D. [Referring apparently
to the verses at the previous sitting.]
10 Professor William James. [part
Miss P. Good, that is most interesting.
Amen ! Miss D [This name, correctly given, is that
of the. cousin of R. H., mentioned as "Q" in previous
reports, a name well known to the trance-consciousness.
—W. J.]
Miss P. Miss D ?
Yes. Ah, ah, ah, (which written words indicate laughter).
Miss P. What does that mean? —(referring to the "ah, ah").
I am amused at you. Yet 1 found them ?
Miss P. No, I haven't.
It will take the remainder of your earthly life, and then
you'll fail.
Miss P. You are just the same as ever.
Not quite as full of energy as I wish, but give me time.
[Rector then comes in, and the sitting closes.]
On Jan. 16 th and Jan. 17 th, R. H. spoke again to Miss
Pope, but without anything evidential in matter—or in manner
either, unless the following be counted as dramatically like :
I shall never assume control here. Imperator shall lead me.
In his care I am safe. I was met by him. There will
be no moaning at the bar when I pass out to sea
remember it I
[Miss Pope assents.]
On Feb. 5th, R. H. asks again :
Got any news of my poem 1
Miss P. No, I give that up.
I thought you would come to it. I made that up in a moment
and composed to Miss D .
[After some more non-evidential talk, R. H. mentions his
living friend, Miss Bancroft, and says :
—
lviil] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 11
Give my love to her and tell her I hope to speak with her
soon.
It seems as if the wondrous land
Within her vision lay :
I dimly sense the mystic strand
Behind the glorious gray.
To Margaret Bancroft. Give her this. She has light.
[Correct.—W. J.]
Miss P. Yes. Is this your own ?
I just made it for her. . . . Tell her I shall never forget
those hills, the water, our talks, and the delightful visit I
had with her. [Correct. —W. J.]
Miss P. I think she is coming soon to speak with you here.
Good. I hope so. Will you tell her, give her my message,
ask her if she knows anything about my watch being
stopped. Do you 1 I must go out and get a little breath.
[Miss B. writes:—"I think the watch means my watch.
We had a number of jokes about the frequent stopping
of my watch."']
On Jan. 23rd, 1906, Mrs. Wm. James, and W. James, Jr.,
had a sitting at which K. H. used the medium's voice and save
a very lifedike impression of his presence. The record runs
as follows :
1
Why, there's Billy ! Is that Mrs. James and Billy ? God
bless you ! Well, well, well, this is good ! [Laughs.] I
am in the witness-box. [Laughs.] I have found my wa}',
I am here, have patience with me. All is well with me.
Don't miss me. Where's William'? Give him my love
and tell him I shall certainly live to prove all I know.
Do you hear me ? see me 1 I am not strong, but have
patience with me. I will tell you all. I think I can
reach you.
1
In this and in some of my future citations from the records, I have condensed
the material by leaving out repetitions and digressions, so that what appears is
often straighter and more coherent than what was originally given. I have,
however, scrupulously endeavoured to omit nothing that could possibly have
determined what was said or its veridieality. —W.J.
Professor William Jo,mes. [part
Something on my mind. I want Lodge to know everything
I have seen Myers. I must rest.
[After an interval he comes in again :
—
Billy, where is Billy 1 What are you writing, Billy ? Are
you having any sports? Would you like to take a swim?
[B. H.'s chief association with W. J., Jr., had been when
fishing or swimming in Chocorua Lake.] Well, come on !
Get a good deal of exercise, but don't overdo it ! Perhaps
I swam too much. [He undoubtedly had done so.]—
learned my lesson, but I'm just where I wanted to be.
Do you remember [Q] ?
[Q] helped me. Then I saw Mother,
Bebecca, and Father. I want very much to converse with
Annie. [His sister.] She perfectly understood my efforts
and was everything to me. I want her to know that I
am living, and I am going on to show what I know to
the end of all time. Is Ellen well? —that's my sister.
I want G. D. [his brother-in-law] to have my watch.
[The Hodgson-family names used here are correct, but were
known to the trance-consciousness. —W. J.]
Do you play ball? —tennis? Men will theorize —let them
do so ! I have found out the truth. I said that if I
could get over there I would not make a botch of it.
If ever B. H. lived in the body, he is talking now. . . .
William [James] is too dogmatic. ... I want George
[Dorr] to extricate all those papers and set those marked
"private" aside. This has been on my mind. George
is to be trusted absolutely with all sincerity and faith.
There are some private records which I should not wish
to have handled. Let George [Dorr] and Piddington go
through them and return them to the sitters. The cipher !
I made that cipher, and no one living can read it.
[Correct.] I shall explain it later. Let Harry [James]
and George keep them till then. [They had been
appointed administrators of his estate, a fact probably
known to Mrs. Piper.] This is the best I have been
able to do yet. I spoke with Miss Pope, but this is the
best. Remember, every communication must have the
human element. I understand better now why I had so
little from Myers. [To W. J., Jr.] What discourages
LVIIL] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 13
you about your art ? [W. J., Jr., was studying painting.]
Oh what good times we had, fishing ! Believe, Billy,
wherever you go, whatever you do, there is a God.
So much for Hodgson's first appearances, which were char-
acteristic enough in manner, however incomplete.
Within the space to which this preliminary report is
limited one can hardly quote the records verbatim, for they
are anything but concise. My best plan will be to cull
a few of the best veridical communications, and discuss
them simply, from the point of view of the alternatives of
explanation.
I begin with what I shall call
The Bing Incident.
On Hodgson's 50th birthday, a lady whom I will call Mrs.
Lyman, an old friend of his, much interested in the Biper work,
had given him a rather massive ring to wear. The source of
this ring H. had kept to himself, and after his death Mrs.
L. asked the administrator of his estate to return it to her.
The ring could not be found.
At the sitting of Dec. 28th (B. H.'s first appearance as a
spirit), it will be remembered that the control Sector had
said to Miss Bope, the sitter, " He holds in his hand a ring
do you understand what it means ?
"
Miss P. I know he had a very attractive ring.
Rector (writing) Margaret, a 11 B, L.
On Jan. 16th, Miss Bope being again the sitter, the B. H.-
control suddenly wrote :
Give ring to Margaret back to Margaret. [Mrs. Lyman's
name is not Margaret.]
Miss P. Who is Margaret 1
I was with her in summer.
Miss P. All right, but the ring has not been found yet. Can you
find out where it is ?
The undertaker got it.
14 Professor William James. [part
Miss P. Oh, all right.
I know. Help me.
Miss P. I shall look it up.
It was with me.
Miss P. Yes, I heard so.
It was, it was.
Miss P. I will attend to it.
Thank you.
On January 24th, Mrs. Lyman herself had her first sitting.
As soon as Hodgson appeared he wrote :
The ring. You gave it me on my fiftieth birthday. When
they asked I didn't want to say you gave it me, I didn't
want to say that. . . . Two palm-leaves joining each
other—Greek. [Here followed an illegible word. The
palms truly described the ring, which Mrs. Piper probably
had seen ; but it bore no Greek inscription, nor was the
symbol on it a Greek cross.] You gave it me—
Mrs. L. Yes, Dick, where is it now 1
They have got it. They took it off my finger after I was
gone.
Mrs. L. No, they didn't find it on your finger.
Pocket, it was in my pocket, I'll find it you shall have it.
On January 29th, Mrs. L. had another sitting. The Hodgson-
control wrote
I have been trying to make clear about that ring. It is
on my mind all the time. I thought if I could get
Margaret B. to get it for me, I would get it to you
through her, then no one would understand. I could
not tell Miss Pope about you.
Mrs. L. Did you think Margaret B. gave it to you ?
Oh dear no ! not at all.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 15
Mrs. L. Then why .did; you speak pf ii3f:1 t
I could trust her absolutely, and no one could understand.
She would never betray it. You gave it to me on my
50th birthday. Palms and R. H. [Then a possible
attempt to draw a symbol engraved on the ring.] No
one living knows this but myself and yourself.
Mrs.'L. That is true, but what was the motto in the ring
1
?
All will be clear to me in time. Do not ask me test
questions now. ... I wish the ring now to go back
to yourself. I thought Margaret would understand and be
glad to do it for me. I could not tell Miss Pope about
you.
On March 5th E. H. again inquires of Mrs. Lyman about
the ring. She then asks him :
" Did you have it on that
last day when you went to the boat-elub ?
" [B, H. died
while playing a game of hand-ball at the boat-club.]
I certainly had it on that day.
Mrs. L. You told Miss P. the undertaker got it,
Thought he did and I am sure a man took it from my
finger.
[After a few more words R.. H. continues :]
I had that ring on my finger when I started for the club,
I recall putting in my pocket, I did so because it hurt
my finger when playing ball. I am not dreaming, I am
clear. When I get here first I am a little stuffy, but
I am as clear now as I ever was, I put it in my waist-
coat pocket.
Mrs. L. Why do you think a man stole it 1
I saw it on a finger. ... I put in my pocket, and the one
who took care of my clothes is responsible for it. . . .
What did they do with my waistcoat?
On May 16th, on being told that the ring i s not yet
found, the Pi. H. control writes :
I saw it taken by a man from my locker. He was in charge
at the time and he has my ring. ... I shall be able to
< . < < c c t < • c
r c c e i <
,
<
, t , r i t < < c c J ,
!
,
' ' ,
'
<<(<-<<-<,, c f.c' i i
r. t, c < r c
r c t f 'r c r ct^o ! 'J
t c c r
c
i c t i c ( i f ° < C .« ' < c ' <
16 Professor William James. [part
disi^oviu bis name so you may be able to find it. I see
where he goes and the house where he lives, plainly. . , .
Five story brick house not far from the club and he is
on the third story from the street, near the corner of
the street, the room is in the rear of the building and
I see his face clearly [a description of the man follows].
I see the ring on his finger clearly. The waistcoat was
in his room when I entered the light a few moments
ago. I am as sure of this as I am that you are Mrs.
Lyman.
In point of fact the ring was found a couple of months
later in the pocket of Hodgson's waistcoat, which had been
too carelessly explored for it, and which had lain during all
the interval in a room at the house of Mr. Dorr, with whom
the Hodgson-control had all the time been having frequent
communications.
The whole incident lends itself easily to a naturalistic
interpretation. Mrs. Piper or her trance-consciousness may
possibly have suspected the source of the ring. Mrs. Lyman's
manner may have confirmed the suspicion. The manner in
which the first misleading reference to " Margaret " was after-
wards explained away may well have been the cunning of a
" control " trying plausibly to cover his tracks and justify his
professed identity. The description of the house and of the
man to whom he ascribes its present possession sounds like
vague groping, characteristic also of control- cunning. The
description was but little like that of Mr. Dorr, whose house,
moreover, is neither very near a corner nor very near a club.
On the other hand, if the hypothesis be seriously enter-
tained that Hodgson's spirit was there in a confused state,
using the permanent Piper automatic machinery to communicate
through, the whole record is not only plausible but natural.
It presents just that mixture of truth and groping which we
ought to expect. Hodgson has the ring " on his mind " just
as Mrs. Lyman has. Like her, he wishes its source not to
be bruited abroad. He describes it accurately enough, truly
tells of his taking it to the fatal boat-club, and of putting
into his waistcoat-pocket there, of the waistcoat being taken
from the locker, and vaguely, but not cpuite erroneously,
indicates its present position.
i
Lvin.j Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 17
Mrs. Lyman's own impression of the incident is as follows
"No living person beside myself knew who had given him the
ring, and I am quite sure that the living R. H. would have been
as desirous as I to keep all mention of me out of the trance-
record. Had he had entire control he would never have mentioned
the ring until I had come to a sitting, but in his half-dreamy state
something slipped out to Miss Pope, the sitter, aided telepathically
perhaps by her knowledge that he had lately worn an unusual-looking
ring which she knew was missing after his death. I am sure that
Miss Pope thought the ring would be a good " test," so that
although she was not the first to speak of it, it must certainly
have been in her mind. It is characteristic of R. H. that even
in his half-conscious state he is able to keep his own counsel so
well. The word Margaret and the letters B and L which followed
the mention of the ring at the very first sitting seem to refer to Miss
Margaret Bancroft and myself. He knew that Miss Bancroft had
"light," and he seems to feel that if he can only reach her she will
understand what he wants. He was well aware of my own morbid
dislike of having my affairs mentioned at the trance outside of my
own sittings. You know that curious trait of suspicion in Hodgson's
absolutely honest nature—trained in him professionally. When
Miss Pope tells him the ring cannot be found, he at once thinks
"there was my body, and my clothes, etc., I believe the undertaker
took it." Then I myself, Mrs. Lyman, come and again tell him
the ring can't be found. His earthly memories presently become
clear and he tells me exactly what he did with it before his death.
But his suspicious side has been aroused—you know how anything
once registered on the trance-machinery seems to make an impression
and tends to recur—and again he thinks that some one took it.
Nothing could be more characteristic of H. than his indignant
remark about the man who had charge of his clothes being
responsible. It all seems to me the kind of unpractical thing that
a man would do in a dream. There are strong characteristics of
R. H. in it, but it is R. H. dreaming and troubled. I am glad
I haven't to make myself intelligible to a stranger to the persons
involved ; but knowing them as I do, I feel my own way straight
through the maze, and the explanation is clear."
This incident of the ring seems to me a typical example
of the ambiguity of possible interpretation that so constantly
haunts us in the Piper-phenomenon. If you are willing
B
18 Professor William James. [part
beforehand to allow that a half-awakened spirit may come
and mix its imperfect memories with the habits of the
trance-automatism, and you apperceive the message sympatheti-
cally, what you get is entirely congenial with your hypothesis.
But if you insist that nothing but knock-down evidence for
the spirits shall be counted, then, since what comes is also
compatible with natural causes, your hardness of heart remains
unbroken, and you continue to explain things by automatic
personation and accidental coincidence, with perhaps a dash
of thought-transference thrown in. People will interpret this
ring-episode harmoniously witb their prepossessions. Taken
by itself its evidential value is weak ; but experience shows, I
think, that a large number of incidents, hardly stronger than
this one, will almost always produce a cumulative effect on
the mind of a sitter whose affairs they implicate, and dispose
him to the spiritistic view. It grows first possible, then
plausible, then natural, and finally probable in a high degree.
The next incident I will cite is one which at a certain
moment gave me a little thrill, as if I might be really talking
with my old friend. (I have to make the personal confession
that this reality-coefficient, as Professor Baldwin calls it, has
generally been absent from my mind when dealing with the
Piper-controls or reading reports of their communications.) I
will call the episode " the nigger-talk case."
The Nigger-Talk Case.
On February 27th, 1906, at a sitting with Professor Hyslop,
the following dialogue took place :
R. H. I wonder if you recall what I said I would do if I should
return first 1
Hyslop. I do not remember exactly.
Remember that I told Myers that we would talk nigger-talk
—Myers—talk nigger-talk 1
Hyslop. No, you must have told that to some one else.
Ah yes, James. I remember it was James, yes, Will James.
He will understand.
Mr. Hyslop immediately wrote to me—I being in California
—enclosing the record and soliciting corrohoration. I had
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 19
to reply that the words awakened absolutely no echo in ray
memory. Three months later I returned to Cambridge, and
began to study records of sittings held during my absence.
I met this incident again, and again it failed to stir my
memory. But the very next day, in a conversation with
Messrs. Dorr and Piddington, while I was recalling certain
discussions that I had formerly had with Hodgson about the
amenability to suggestion of the Piper-controls, it suddenly
flashed across me that these were probably what the words to
Hyslop had meant. I had namely said to Hodgson, more than
once, that a little tactful steering on his part would probably
change the sacerdotal verbiage of the Imperator-group so com-
pletely that he would soon find them " talking like nigger-
minstrels." For a moment I felt sure that this expression of
mine, buried so deep in my own mind that it required a peculiar
chain of associations to revive it, was what was dimly working
in the memory of a surviving Hodgson, and trying to extricate
itself. It was so incredible that E. H. would ever have repeated
such a remark to either the waking Mrs. Piper or to her
controls, that it seemed a good test of his survival. I regret
to say, however, that the subsequent developments of the
incident have deprived it in my eyes of all test-value. Not
only did the Hodgson-control, when questioned by me subse-
quently, fail to recall anything like that discussion of the
control's suggestibility which was the setting in which my
memory had put the phrase, but Mr. Piddington has found in
the Piper-records evidence that Hodgson had used the words
" nigger-talk " in speaking to the Myers-control, so that this
expression must be considered as part of the stock of Mrs.
Piper's trance-vocabulary.1
Such an incident shows how wary
one must be in one's interpretations. A really expert critic
of the Piper-trances ought to be familiar with the entire
mass of material previous to any utterance under consideration.
Hodgson was extraordinarily expert in this sense, and one of
the weirdest feelings I have had, in dealing with the business
lately, has been to find the wish so frequently surging up in
1{ 'Feb. 4th, 1902. Dr. Hodgson (spontaneously to Myers-control) Do you
remember about your laughing with me once and your saying that doubtless
you would some time be coming back and talking nigger-talk ">. " A reference
to the same incident is also made in the sitting of Feb. 13th, 1901.
20 Professor William James. [part
me that he were alive beside me to give critical counsel as
to how best to treat certain of the communications of his own
professed spirit.
The Huldah-Episode.
During the voice-sitting of May 2nd, 1905, Mr. Piddington
being present, the R. H. control said
Pid, I want very much to give you my private letters con-
cerning a Miss—a Miss—in Chicago [pseudonym]. I do
not wish any one to read them.
J. G. P. How shall I know ?
Look at my letters stamped from Chicago. I wouldn't have
them get out for the world.
The name " Densmore " [pseudonym] was then written. Mr.
Piddington asked whether the letters would be signed by the
surname or the Christian name. The name " Huldah " was then
given as that by which the letters would be signed.
On May 14th Piddington reported to the R. H. control that
no such letters could be found, and asked for further informa-
tion
—" Can you tell me at what time this lady wrote letters
to you ? Was it lately ?
"
No, several years previously. I should be much distressed
if they fell into other hands. No one living except the
lady and myself knows of the correspondence.
J. G. P. If I cannot find those letters, should you feel any objection
to my writing to the lady to ask if there has been such
a correspondence 1
Yes, I would rather you would do so.
Later (May 29th) Piddington reports unsuccessful search
again, and Mr. Dorr, who also is present, asks whether
" Huldah " is one of a family of Densmores known to him.
" Is she a sister of Mary, Jenny, and Ella [pseudonyms] ?
Ella is the one. Huldah we used to call her.
[This was emphatically spoken. Then followed a statement
(not caught in Mr. Dorr's notes) that the lady's full name was
Ella Huldah Densmore.]
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 21
No one living could have known it. I hope I have destroyed
them—I may have done so and forgotten it. There was
a time when I greatly cared for her, and I did not wish
it known in the ears of others. I think she can corro-
borate this. I am getting hazy. I must leave.
On June 5th, Mrs. William James and Mr. Dorr being
present, D. asked :
" Can you tell us anything more about
Huldah Densmore ? You said the other day that she was the
same person as Ella ? Were you clear in saying that ?
Did I say that 1 That was a mistake. She is a sister. Is
one of the three sisters, but not Ella. [She was Ella.]
I know what I am talking about. I saw Huldah in
Chicago. I was very fond of her. I proposed marriage
to her, but she refused me.
The statement about proposing marriage was not divulged
to me by my wife, until I had already heard from the lady
called Ella Densmore in this narrative, who was then in a
foreign country, and to whom I had written to ascertain whether
she and Hodgson had ever corresponded, or whether she or
any one in her family was christened Huldah. Both Mr. Dorr
and I knew her, but I was ignorant that she and Hodgson
were acquainted. Great was my surprise when she wrote as
follows :
Regarding the utterances of Mrs. Piper, I have no difficulty in
telling you the circumstances on which she may have founded her
communications. Years ago Mr. H. asked me to marry him, and
some letters were exchanged between us which he may have kept.
I do not remember how I signed the letters to him. I have
sometimes used my middle name, Hannah, instead of Ella. [She
knew of no " Huldah " in her family.]
In spite of the confusion that pervades Hodgson's veracious
utterances here, it seems improbable that they should merely
have been lucky flukes. Two naturalistic explanations offer
themselves immediately.
(1) He might have made Mrs. Piper his confidant at the
time ; but no one who knows Hodgson will regard this
explanation for a moment as credible.
22 Professor William James. [part
(2) Nothing spreads as fast as rumors of this sort; so
that if there had been a gossipy rumor, it might very well
have spread to Mrs. Piper's ears, although it had skipped over
Mr. Dorr's and mine. I accordingly inquired of a dozen of
E. H.'s most intimate friends, saying :
" Suppose I were to
tell you that Hodgson had been in love not long ago, and
had offered himself to a certain lady—would any particular
person's name arise in your mind in consequence of such a
suggestion ?
" Not a single one of these friends thought of
the name of Miss Densmore, although three of them suggested
other names very wide of the mark. Evidently no gossip
had got into circulation, and E. H. had covered his tracks
well. He was indeed the most singular mixture of expansive-
ness and reticence I have ever known ; and the reticence had
been increased professionally, as I may say, through his long
training in having to guard the private affairs of sitters, and
to watch himself with Mrs. Piper. I was Hodgson's earliest
American friend, and until his death always imagined myself
to enjoy an almost perfect intimacy with him. Since his
death I have nevertheless found that whole departments of
his life were unknown to me. In this " Huldah " matter
in particular, not only was I unaware that lie and she were
acquainted, but if any one had described him to me as being
in love with her, I should have scouted the story as inherently
improbable, from the character of the two parties.
Nevertheless the story was true, barring the false name
Huldah and a certain vacillation about the real Christian name.
The sister of the so-called " Huldah " has told me, moreover,
that besides herself, she thought that no living person knew
from her sister's lips of E. H.'s state of mind. As Hodgson
himself had apparently told no one, the incident seemed an
excellent one to count in favor of spirit-return, unless, indeed,
it should turn out that while it was happening, he had been
led to consult the Piper- controls about it himself, and to use
" Huldah's " name as a test of their telepathic or clairvoyant
powers. But that even then he could have given them the
real name seems unlikely, in view of his habitual methods.
The records taken to England have not yet been looked over
from this point of view, and no one knows just what they
may contain, but fortunately one of the sittings with Mrs.
lviii] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 23
Piper after Hodgson's decease throws decisive light upon the
matter. Hodgson did consult the Imperator group at the
time of his disappointment, and the reasonable conclusion is
that the revelation which so surprised Mr. Dorr and myself
was thus a product of Mrs. Piper's trance-memory of previous
conversations with the living Hodgson.
The sitting to which I allude was held on January 27th,
1906, by Prof. Newbold. In the course of it the Hodgson-
control suddenly says :
Let me ask if you remember anything about a lady in
[Chicago] to whom I referred.
W. R, N. Oh Dick, I begin to remember. About eight or nine
years ago, was it, Dick ]
Yes.
[Note by W. JR. N. —Such a lady was frequently mentioned
at sittings in 1895, and H. was told he would marry
her. I was present when these statements were made,
if my memory serves me.]
W. R. N. Tell me more, so I won't tell you !
And my position regarding her.
W. R. N. I wasn't sure it was in [Chicago].
Do you remember .... Densmore 1
W. R. N. Was it Jessie Densmore 1
Yes, Good.
[Mr. Dorr, who was present, here interjects :]
"Do you mean the name was Jessie Densmore, Hodgson?"
No, no, no, no. [Jessie was the first name of K. H.'s
Australian cousin, "Q".—W. J.]
W. R. N. Dick, you told me years ago about a lady you were
interested in, but 1 have forgotten her name and where
she lived.
She lived in [Chicago].
W. R. N. Dick, it comes back to me as a cloud.
She was a Miss Densmore j I loved her dearly.
24 Professor William James. [part
W. R. N. You used to tell me about her years ago.
Yes, and she afterwards married. Yes, I told you, and
you are the only man I ever told. [Correct, apparently,
save for the possibility of his having told Myers. See
below.]
W. R. N. I'm not sure you told me her name.
Yes, I did.
W. R. N. The name is the least likely thing for me to remember
What is the married name of Miss Densmore ?
Heaven knows ! It has gone from me and I shall soon go
myself.
So much for Dr. Newbold's evidence. He has sent me a
letter written to him by Hodgson in 1895, from which it
would appear that the Piper controls had prophesied that both
he and Newbold would ere long be made matrimonially happy,
but that whereas the prophecy was being verified in N.'s case,
it had been falsified in his own, he having that day received
formal announcement of the marriage of Miss Densmore to
another. The only other material which 1 shall quote is
the following dialog, at a sitting of nay own, October 24th,
1906. Inquiring about " Huldah," I ask:
W. J. Did you make any one your confidant'?
No, though I may possibly have given a hint of it to
Newbold.
W. J. Did you tell anybody on the other side of the water ?
I may possibly have hinted it to Lodge.
W. J. Her sister tells me she thinks you may have told Myers
when he Avas alive.
I think not : I may have hinted it to Myers.
W. J. She denies any knowledge of the name Huldah.
I used that name instead of the right christian name [he
here gives the latter correctly] to avoid compromising
— it was a very delicate matter, and caused me great
disappointment. Have you communicated it to her ?
LVIII.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 25
W. J. Yes, and she corroborates
[R. H. displays no further curiosity, —a living person would
probably have asked whether the lady had said nothing
about him, etc.]
Do you remember a lady-doctor in New York? a member
of our Society 1
W. J. No, but what about her?
Her husband's name was Blair, ... I think.
W. J. Do you mean Mrs. Dr. Blair Thaw?
Oh yes. Ask Mrs. Thaw if I did not at a dinner party
mention something about the lady. I may have done so.
[Mrs. Thaw writes in comment upon this:
—"Fifteen years
ago, when R. H. was visiting us after his operation for
appendicitis he told me that he had just proposed to a
young lady and been refused. He gave no name/'—Mrs.
Thaw is the only living person beside Newbold to whom
I can certainly find that he ever spoke of this episode,
and the clue to Mrs. Thaw comes from the control !
W. J.]
W. J. Do you remember the name of Huldah's present husband 1
[To which R. H. replies by giving his country and title
correctly, but fails to give his name.]
The entire incident shows the importance of completeness
in the records. Without Professor Newbold's sitting we
should have no present assurance that the trance-memory
might have furnished the facts which seemed at the first
blush to suggest so strongly the return of a " spirit " in a
state of confused memory. Compatible with the return of such
a spirit the facts indeed are. The possibility of the more
naturalistic explanation doesn't make the supernatural one
impossible ; and if spirit-return were already made probable
by other evidence, this might well be taken as a case of it
too. But what I am sifting these records for is independent
evidence of such return ; and so long as the record in this
instance lends itself so plausibly to a naturalistic explanation,
I think we must refuse to interpret it in the spiritistic way.
26 Professor William James. [part
A couple of smaller veridical incidents which have seemed
to the sitters to make rather strongly for spirit-return are
connected with E. H.'s financial history. I shall call them,
The Pecuniary Messages.
The American Branch had never fully paid its expenses
and although the Secretary's salary had always been very
small, Hodgson had, after the first years, been reluctant to
have any part of it charged to the mother-country. The
result had occasionally been pecuniary embarrassment on his
part. During his last visit to England, shortly after Myers's
death, this embarrassment had been extreme ; but an American
friend, divining it in the nick of time, rescued him by an
impulsive and wholly unexpected remittance. To this remit-
tance he replied by a letter which contained some banter
and, among other things, cited the story of a starving couple
who were overheard by an atheist who was passing the house,
to pray aloud to God for food. The atheist climbed the roof
and dropped some bread down the chimney, and heard them
thank God for the miracle. He then went to the door and
revealed himself as its author. The old woman replied to
him: "Well, the Lord sent it, even if the devil brought it."
At this friend's sitting of Jan. 30th, E, H. suddenly
says
Do 3'ou remember a story I told you and how you laughed,
about the man and woman praying.
Sitter: Oh, and the devil was in it. Of course I do.
Yes, the devil, they told him it was the Lord who sent
it if the devil brought it. . . . About the food that
was given to them. ... I want you to know who is
speaking.
The sitter feels quite certain that no one but himself knew
of the correspondence, and regards the incident as a good
test of E. H.'s continued presence. Others will either favor
this interpretation of it, or explain it by reading of the
sitter's mind, or treat it as a chance coincidence, according
to their several prepossessions. I myself feel morally certain
that the waking Mrs. Piper was ignorant of the incident and
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 27
of the correspondence. Hodgson was as likely to have
informed me, as any one, of the affair. He had given me
at the time a vivid account of the trouble he had been in,
but no hint of the quarter from which relief had come.
Of the other pecuniary message no written record exists,
but the sitter has acquainted me with the incident, which
ran as follows :
To assure Hodgson a salary, Mr. Dorr had acquainted a
certain wealthy friend (who believed in the cause and in
the value of the Secretary's work) with the situation of the
Branch, and with E. H.'s reasons for not wishing to be
indebted to the parent Society. This friend had agreed to
pay into the Branch-treasury the amount of deficit in the
yearly salary-account, provided the operation should remain
anonymous, and Hodgson should ask no questions. Hodgson
agreed to this. But upon the first sitting which this friend
had after his death, the " spirit " of E. H. immediately
referred to the matter and thanked the sitter warmly for
the support given. The donor is of opinion, as I am also,
that Hodgson may have suspected the source of the aid while
receiving it, and that his " spirit " may therefore naturally
have thanked the right person. That Mrs. Piper's waking
consciousness should have been acquainted with any part of
the transaction is incredible. The donor's name had been
kept from me, who was Vice-President of the Society, and
had yearly to know the accounts. I had known that the
deficit in Hodgson's pay was made up by anonymous American
believers in his work, but had supposed that there were
several of them. I cannot well understand how Mrs. Piper
should have got wind of any part of the financial situation,
although her controls may have got wind of it in trance from
those who were in the secret.
Few persons will ascribe the affair to chance-coincidence, but
with both thought-transference and trance-memory as possible
explanations, the incident cannot be deemed to furnish proof
of Hodgson's personal survival.
In a later report I shall quote sittings at greater length
and discuss briefly some of the control's peculiarities. The
2S Professor William James. [part
conclusions I shall then draw will probably not be different
from those which I now draw as follows
(1) The case is an exceptionally bad one for testing spirit-
return, owing to the unusual scope it gives to naturalistic
explanations.
(2) The phenomena it presents furnish no knock-down
proof of the return of Hodgson's spirit.
(3) They are well compatible, however, with such return,
provided we assume that the Piper-organism not only transmits
with great difficulty the influences it receives from beyond
the curtain, but mixes its own automatic tendencies most
disturbingly therewith. Hodgson himself used to compare the
conditions of spirit-communication to those of two distant persons
on this earth who should carry on their social intercourse by
employing each of them a dead-drunk messenger.
(4) Although this Hodgson-case, taken by itself, yields thus
only a negative, or at the best a baffling conclusion, we have
no scientific right to take it by itself, as I have done. It
belongs with the whole residual mass of Piper-phenomena,
and they belong with the whole mass of cognate phenomena
elsewhere found. False personation is a ubiquitous feature in
this total mass. It certainly exists in the Piper-case ; and
the great question there is as to its limits. If, when lavish
allowance has been made for this strange tendency in our
subliminal life, there should still appear a balance of probability
(which in this case can only mean a balance of simplicity)
in the view that certain parts of the Piper-communications
really emanate from personal centres of memory and will,
connected with lives that have passed away ;
if, I say, this
balance of probability should appear decisively anywhere
in the mass, then the rest of the mass will have to be
interpreted as at least possibly similarly caused. I admire
greatly Hodgson's own discussion of the Piper-case in Volume
XIII. of our Proceedings, especially in sections 5 and 6,
where, taking the whole mass of communication into careful
account, he decides for this spiritist interpretation. I know
of no more masterly handling anywhere of so unwieldy a
mass of material ; and in the light of his general conclusions
there, I am quite ready to admit that my own denials in
this present paper may be the result of the narrowness of
lviil] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 29
my material, and that possibly R. H.'s spirit has been
speaking all the time, only my ears have been deaf. It is
true that I still believe the " Imperator-band " to be fictitious
entities, while Hodgson ended by accepting them as real ; but
as to the general probability of there being real communicators
somewhere in the mass I cannot be deaf to Hodgson's able
discussion, or fail to feel the authority which his enormous
experience gave to his opinion in this particular field.
(5) I therefore repeat that if ever our growing familiarity
with these phenomena should tend more and more to
corroborate the hypothesis that " spirits " play some part in
their production, I shall be quite ready to undeafen my ears,
and to revoke the negative conclusions of this limited report.
The facts are evidently complicated in the extreme, and we
have as yet hardly scratched the surface of them. But
methodical exploration has at last seriously begun, and these
earlier observations of ours will surely be interpreted one
day in the light of future discoveries which it may well
take a century to make. I consequently disbelieve in being
too " rigorous " with our criticism of anything now in hand,
or in our squeezing so evidently vague a material too hard
in our technical forceps, at the present stage. What we
need is more and more observations. Quantity will probably
have to supplement quality in the material. When we have
the facts in sufficient number, we may be sure that they will
cast plenty of explanatory backward light. We can therefore
well afford to play a waiting game.
30 Professor William James. [part
PAET II.
1
" Believe me, I am not rubbish." The Hodgson-Control.
Richard Hodgson had always seemed and felt so robust that
the possibility of his death had been thought of by no one,
and no provision against it had been made. He had worked
the American Branch of our Society practically alone, for many
years, and although Prof. Hyslop and I were vice-presidents,
we had no minute acquaintance with details at the office,
where Miss Lucy Edmunds, the assistant secretary, was now
left in charge alone.
What was to be done about the Branch ? what was to be
done with its mass of records ? what with Hodgson's private
property ?—these were so many problems requiring immediate
solution. Last, not least, there was the problem of Mrs. Piper's
future.
The question of E. H.'s property was easily answered by
the legal appointment of Messrs. Dorr and H. James, Jr., to be
administrators of his personal estate, he having left no will.
The great mass of Members and Associates of the Branch
being inert and indifferent, the handling of the other questions
fell to a small group of more acutely interested persons, of
whom Dr. Hyslop and I were the only ones with official
authority.
Absent in California for about five months, I found on my
return that certain differences of opinions had been developing
at home.
Prof. Hyslop, who had expended so much labor already on
the Piper material, wished, if possible, to secure the records for
the new American Society which he was founding. Others,
whose sittings had been of a peculiarly intimate nature,
claimed that the records of those sittings were their private
1
Part I. of this report was written to be read at the S.P.R. meeting in
London, January 28th, 1909. I must assume in what follows that my readers
are already acquainted with the contents of Part I.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 31
property. In some quarters an objection was felt to such a
mass of American material going to England. One person
protested rather vehemently against the prominent part played
by a certain other person in the deliberations. There being
no one officially empowered to succeed Hodgson in taking
charge of Mrs. Piper's sittings, differences of opinion regarding
her future relations to the S.P.K. had arisen.
There was, in short, a state of strain which I have to
mention here, for the trance-utterances of that period refer to
it, and its peculiarities must be taken account of in estimating
their significance.
In the end, however, since we all had fair minds and
good-will, and were united in our common love for Hodgson,
everything got settled harmoniously. Mr. Piddington was sent
for to represent the English Society; it was decided to extinguish
the American Branch, and to carry the Piper-reports to England,
practically complete, while Hyslop's Society should take pos-
session of the other records ; workable arrangements were found
for Mrs. Piper ; the situation, in short, smoothed itself out,
leaving nothing but a new system of friendships among persons
who before Hodgson's death had for the most part been
unacquainted with one another.
The records of the Piper trance show that during all this
period the " controls " had cognizance of the main factors of
perplexity. There were, however, so many sources of leakage
at this epoch that no part of this cognizance can be counted
as evidence of supernormal knowledge. Whether in or out
of trance, the Medium may well have come into possession
of what was essential in the facts, and the gaps could be
filled by her imagination, either waking or somnambulistic.
The result, however, was that those who held sittings at this
time had a lively feeling that the control-personality they
talked with, whether Eector or Hodgson, was an intelligence
which understood the whole situation. It talked appropriately
with Dorr about certain records not being made public ; with
Henry James, Jr., about the disposition of K. H.'s books and
other property; with Piddington and Dorr about Hyslop's desires
and how best to meet them ; with Hyslop about his responsi-
bilities and about mediums in whom he and Hodgson had
recently been interested : with Dorr, James, Piddington, and
32 Professor William James. [part
Mrs. Lyman about whom to induce to manage the sittings
with more than one of us about a certain person who was
unduly interfering, etc., etc. ; the total outcome being that
each sitter felt that his or her problems were discriminatingly
perceived by the mind that animated the sleeping medium's
organism.
More than this—most of us felt during the sittings that
we were in some way, more or less remote, conversing with
a real Eector or a real Hodgson. And this leads me to make
a general remark about the difference between reading the
record of a Piper-sitting and playing an active part in the
conversation recorded.
One who takes part in a good sitting has usually a far
livelier sense, both of the reality and of the importance of
the communication, than one who merely reads the record.
Active relations with a thing are required to bring the reality
of it home to us, and in a trance-talk the sitter actively
co-operates. When you find your questions answered and your
allusions understood ; when allusions are made that you think
you understand, and your thoughts are met by anticipation,
denial, or corroboration ; when you have approved, applauded, or
exchanged banter, or thankfully listened to advice that you
believe in ; it is difficult not to take away an impression
of having encountered something sincere in the way of a
social phenomenon. The whole talk gets warmed with your
own warmth, and takes on the reality of your own part in
it ; its confusions and defects you charge to the imperfect
conditions, while you credit the successes to the genuineness of
the communicating spirit. Most of us also, when sitters, react
more, prick our ears more, to the successful parts of the
communication. These consequently loom more in our memory,
and give the key to our dramatic interpretation of the
phenomenon. But a sitting that thus seemed important at
the time may greatly shrink in value on a cold re-reading
and if read by a non-participant, it may seem thin and
almost insignificant.1
1
A striking example of this was furnished me lately by a manuscript which
a friend sent me. She had been one of Mrs. Piper's most assiduous clients.
Her conversations with a certain spirit-control had been copious, fluent and
veridical, and to herself so comforting and elevating, that she had epitomized
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper s Hodgson-Control. 33
Somewhat similar fluctuations are noticed in the reality-
feeling which the records may awaken at different times in
one and the same reader. When I first undertook to collate
this series of sittings and make the present report, I supposed
that my verdict would be determined by pure logic. Certain
minute incidents, I thought, ought to make for spirit-return
or against it in a " crucial " way. But watching my mind
work as it goes over the data, convinces me that exact
logic plays only a preparatory part in shaping our conclusions
here ;
and that the decisive vote, if there be one, has to be
cast by what I may call one's general sense of dramatic
probability, which sense ebbs and flows from one hypothesis
to another—it does so in the present writer at least—in a
rather illogical manner. If one sticks to the detail, one may
draw an anti-spiritist conclusion ; if one thinks more of what
the whole mass may signify, one may well incline to spiritist
interpretations.
This was the shape in which I myself left the matter in
my recent preliminary report. I said that spirit-return was
not proved by the Hodgson-control material, taken by itself,
but that this adverse conclusion might possibly be reversed
if the limited material were read in the li<dit of the total
mass of cognate phenomena. To say this is to say that the
proof still baffles one. It still baffles me, I have to confess
but whether my subjective insufficiency or the objective in-
sufficiency (as yet) of our evidence be most to blame for
this, must be decided by others.
The common-sense rule of presumption in scientific logic is
never to assume an unknown agent where there is a known
one, and never to choose a rarer cause for a phenomenon when
a commoner one will account for it. The usual is always more
them in this manuscript which, she thought, ought to be published. Strictly
evidential matter was ruled out from it as too minute or private, and what
remained was ethical and human matter only. Never having known the
communicator, and reading passively and critically, I felt bound to dissuade
from publication. I could not believe that readers would find in the com-
munications a twentieth part of the importance which their receiver had found
in them. The vital heat was absent, and what remained was ashes. I may
well have been wrong in this opinion, but the incident brought vividly home
to my own mind the contrast between the inside view of the sitter, and the
outside one of the mere critic.
C
34 Professor William James. [part
probable, and exceptional principles should be invoked only when
the use of ordinary ones is impossible. Fraud is a form of
human agency both known and common, though much less
common than cynics suppose ;
" personation " is unquestionably
common in the whole realm of our subconscious operations
" telepathy " seems fairly established as a fact, though its
frequency is still questionable ; accidental coincidences occur,
however rarely ; but " spirits " of any grade, although they are
indeed matters of tradition, seem to have shown themselves (so
far as concrete evidence for them goes) nowhere except in the
specific phenomena under investigation. Our rule of presump-
tion should lead us then to deny spirits and to explain the
Piper-phenomena by a mixture of fraud, subconscious persona-
tion, lucky accident, and telepathy, whenever such an explanation
remains possible. Taking these Hodgson-records in detail, and
subjecting their incidents to a piecemeal criticism, such an
explanation does seem practically possible everywhere ;
so, as
long as we confine ourselves to the mere logic of presumption,
the conclusion against the spirits holds good.
But the logic of presumption, safe in the majority of cases,
is bound to leave us in the lurch whenever a real exception
confronts us ; and there is always a bare possibility that any
case before us may be such an exception. In the case at
present before us the exceptional possibility is that of " spirits
"
really having a finger in the pie. The records are fully com-
patible with this explanation, however explicable they may be
without it. Spirits may co-operate with all the other factors,
they may indeed find that harnessing the other factors in their
service is the only way open to them for communicating their
wishes. The lower factors may, in fact, be to a spirit's wishes
what the physical laws of a machine are to its maker's and
user's aims. A spectator, confining his attention to a machine's
parts and their workings, and finding everything there explicable
by mechanical push and pull, may be tempted to deny the
presence of any higher actuation. Yet the particular pushes
and pulls which the form of that machine embodies, would not
be there at all without a higher meaning -which the machine
expresses, and which it works out as a human purpose. To
understand the parts of the machine fully, we must find the
human purpose which uses all this push and pull as its means
t-viii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 35
of realization. Just so the personation, fishing, guessing, using
lucky hits, etc., in Mrs. Piper, may be, as it were, the
mechanical means by which " spirits " succeed in making her
living organism express their thought, however imperfectly.
As soon, therefore, as we drop our routine rule of presumption,
and ask straight for truth and nothing but truth, we find that
the whole question is as to whether the exceptional case con-
fronts us. This is a question of probabilities and improbabilities.
Now in every human being who in cases like this makes a
decision instead of suspending judgment, the sense of probability
depends on the forms of dramatic imagination of which his mind
is capable. The explanation has in any event to be dramatic.
Fraud, personation, telepathy, spirits, elementals, are all of them
dramatic hypotheses. If your imagination is incapable of con-
ceiving the spirit-hypothesis at all, you will just proclaim it
" impossible " (as my colleague Miinsterberg does, Psychology and
Life, p. 130), and thus confess yourself incompetent to discuss
the alternative seriously.
I myself can perfectly well imagine spirit-agency, and I find
my mind vacillating about it curiously. When I take the
phenomena piecemeal, the notion that Mrs. Piper's subliminal
self should keep her sitters apart as expertly as it does, remem-
bering its past dealings with each of them so well, not mixing
their communications more, and all the while humbugging them
so profusely, is quite compatible with what we know of the
dream-life of hypnotized subjects. Their consciousness, narrowed
to one suggested kind of operation, shows remarkable skill in
that operation. If we suppose Mrs. Piper's dream-life once for
all to have had the notion suggested to it that it must personate
spirits to sitters, the fair degree of virtuosity it shows need not,
I think, surprise us. Nor need the exceptional memory shown
surprise us, for memory seems extraordinarily strong in the
subconscious life. But I find that when I ascend from the
details to the whole meaning of the phenomenon, and especially
when I connect the Piper-case with all the other cases I know
of automatic writing and mediumship, and with the whole record
of spirit-possession in human history, the notion that such an
immense current of experience, complex in so many ways, should
spell out absolutely nothing but the words " intentional humbug "
appears very unlikely. The notion that so many men and
Professor William James. [part
women, in all other respects honest enough, should have this
preposterous monkeying self annexed to their personality seems
to me so weird that the spirit-theory immediately takes on a
more probable appearance. The spirits, if spirits there be,
must indeed work under incredible complications and falsifica-
tions, but at least if they are present, some honesty is left in
a whole department of the universe which otherwise is run by
pure deception. The more I realize the quantitative massive-
ness of the phenomenon and its complexity, the more incredible
it seems to me that in a world all of whose vaster features
we are in the habit of considering to be sincere at least,
however brutal, this feature should be wholly constituted of
insincerity.
If I yield to a feeling of the dramatic improbability of this,
I find myself interpreting the details of the sittings differently.
I am able, while still holding to all the lower principles of
interpretation, to imagine the process as more complex, and to
share the feeling with which Hodgson came at last to regard
it after his many years of familiarity, the feeling which Prof.
Hyslop shares, and which most of those who have good sittings
are promptly inspired with. I can imagine the spirit of E. H.
talking to me through inconceivable barriers of obstruction, and
forcing recalcitrant or only partly consilient processes in the
Medium to express his thoughts, however dimly.
This is as candid an account of my own personal equation
as I can give. I exhibited it in my treatment of special
incidents in the preliminary report, and the reader will make
allowance for it in what is to follow. In the end he must
draw his conclusions for himself; I can only arrange the
material.
The best way perhaps to do this will be to begin with
certain general characteristics, Hodgson's mannerisms, for
example.
Hodgson was distinguished during life by great animal spirits.
He was fond of argument, chaff, and repartee, a good deal of
a gesticulator, and a great laugher. He had, moreover, an
excessive appetite for poetry. I call it excessive, for it was
anything but fastidious,-—he seemed to need sonorous rhyme and
metre for his daily food, even if the quality and sentiment were
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 37
commonplace. All these traits were manifested from the outset
in his appearances as a " control "—some examples are given
in my preliminary report. Chaff and slang from a spirit have
an undignified sound for the reader, but to the interlocutors
of the E. H.-control they seem invariably to have been elements
of verisimilitude. Thus T. P. writes, a propos of a bantering
passage in the record of Jan. 16, 1906: "T. P. and R H.
were such good chums that he was saucy to her, and teasing
her most of the time. E. H.'s tone towards T. P. in all his
communications is absolutely characteristic, and as he was in
life." Similarly, Dr. Bayiey appends this note to a number of
ultra- vivacious remarks from E. H. :
" Such expressions and
phrases were quaintly characteristic of E. H. in the body, and
as they appear, often rapidly and spontaneously, they give the
almost irresistible impression that it is really the Hodgson
personality, presiding with its own characteristics. To fully
appreciate this, of course, one would have had to have known
him as intimately as I did." 1
For these rollicking observations the control chose his sitters
well in accordance with his habits during life. This, however,
did not exclude very serious talk with the same persons—quite
the reverse sometimes, as when one sitter of this class notes :
" Then came words of kindness which were too intimate and
personal to be recorded, but which left me so deeply moved
that shortly afterwards, at the sitting's close, I fainted dead
away—it had seemed as though he had in all reality been
there and speaking to me."
The extracts given in the earlier report or to be given soon
will show what I mean by Hodgson's rollicking manner. The
later communications show more of it than the earlier ones
and it quickly manifested the tendency, characteristic in the
medium's utterances, to become stereotj'ped. Whatever they
may have been at the outset, they soon fall into what may
be called the trance-memory's " stock," and are then repeated
automatically. Hodgson quickly acquired a uniform mode of
announcing himself: "Well, well, well! I am Hodgson.
Delighted to see you. How is everything ? First rate ? I'm
in the witness-box at last," etc., with almost no variety. This
habitual use of stock-remarks by Mrs. Piper may tempt one
1
Sitting of April 3rd, 1906.
38 Professor William James. [part
to be unjust to the total significance of her mediumship. If
the supernormal element in it, whatever it is, be essentially
discontinuous and flash-like, an utterance that to-day belongs
to the regular trance-stock may have got into that stock at a
former moment of supernormal receptivity. Supernormal
receptivity of some kind is certainly involved in the total
phenomenon, but I believe that information that originally came
thus quickly ceases to be supernormal. The control G. P.,
at the outset of his appearance, gave supernormal information
copiously, but within a few years he has degenerated into a
shadow of his former self, dashing in and quickly out again,
with an almost fixed form of greeting. Whatever he may
have been at first, he seems to me at last to have " passed
on," after leaving that amount of impression on the trance-
organism's habits.
I will now cull from the records a number of extracts
relative to particular sitters, which show the control's familiarity
with their affairs, calling the first of these extracts
The Oldfarm Series.
Oldfarm is the name of Mr. George B. Dorr's place at Bar
Harbor, Maine, where B. H. had often been a summer guest.
Mrs. Piper at the time of these sittings had never been at
Bar Harbor; and although she had had many interviews, as well
with Mr. Dorr as with Mr. Dorr's mother before the latter's
death, it is unlikely that many of the small veridical details
in what follows had been communicated to her at those
interviews. At Mr. Dorr's sitting of June 5th, 1906, he
asks the B. H.-control for his reminiscences of Oldfarm :
" Do
you remember your visits to us there ?
Certainly I do. One night we stayed out too long and
your mother got very nervous, do you remember 1
Minna was there We stayed out much too
long. I felt it was a great breach of etiquette but we
couldn't help it ! I fear as guests we were bad [laughs],
[R. H.'s sitting out with "Minna" and others "much too
long " and " their being bad as guests " is excellent.
In old days they used often to sit up hopelessly late
into the night, when the nights were pleasant, out on
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper s Hodgson-Control. 39
the piazza, talking in the dark; and my mother's half-
real and half-humorous exasperation over it, expressed in
her own vivid way, and R. H.'s boyish delight in doing
it and at the scoldings they all used to get for it next
day, would naturally be one of the first things he would
recall, associated as those evenings were with people
whom he cared for.—D.]
And do you remember the discussion I had with Jack,
when he got impatient 1 You were much amused !
[His recollection of his discussion with Jack, who used, to-
gether with M., to be at our house with him a great
deal in the old days, is characteristic. I do not myself
remember the special occasion to which he refers, but
the incident, including my own amusement at the heat
they used to get into in their talk, falls in most naturally
with all my own recollections of that time. —D.]
And I remember your mother's calling me out one Sunday
morning to see the servants go to church on a buckboard.
[I cannot now recall my mother taking R. H. out to see
the servants off on any special day, but he was with us
many Sundays, and I have no doubt that the memory
of this is absolutely accurate, nor is it anything of which
Mrs. Piper might know,—it is not the sort of thing that
any one would have spoken to her of, or mentioned at
the trance. The buckboard is quite correct. It was a
big buckboard that carried six people and was the only
wagon which we had big enough to take all the people
up, but its use is not sufficiently universal at Bar Harbor
to injure the evidential value of his recollection of it.
Again, the people used to go off from the kitchen,
which is at an end of the house and cannot be seen
from the living rooms or piazzas, so that his statement
that my mother called him out to see them off, while a
small point, seems to me of value; and the event itself,
with the arrangements that had to be made to make it
possible, was quite enough of a circumstance in our
family life to make recollection of it natural. —D.]
I can see the open fireplace in the living room.
40 Professor William James. [part
[The room is one in which the fireplace, hroad and arching,
is the central feature and would be first thought of in
thinking of the room. —D.]
6. B. D. Do you remember where you used to sleep ?
Out in the little house just out across the yard, where we
used to go and smoke.
[His recollection also of the little house is good. The only
mistake in reference to it is in speaking of it as " across
the yard," it being in fact across the lawn and garden,
upon a hillside opposite the house. We always kept
some rooms in it for our guests, over-flowing into it
when the house was full, and R. H. liked it better than
the house itself in the greater freedom that it gave him.
We used to close the house itself early in the evening,
and R. H. was very apt then to go up to the cottage
with some other man or men and sit up and smoke
and talk, —often until quite late. —D.]
I remember the bathing and the boats and a walk through
the woods.
[The bathing was one of the incidents at Oldfarm which
R. H. would have best remembered. We used to take
long walks over the mountains and go down for a
plunge when we returned from them. There were often
three or four men or more going in together when the
house was full, and it was something in which R. H.
delighted especially, so that his recollection of this
would be apt to be one of his most vivid ones. —D.]
G. B. D. Do you remember whether you used to bathe off the beach,
or off the rocks 1
We used to bathe off the rocks ; I'm sure of that. / can
see the whole place.
[I asked the question as to whether we went in off' the
rocks or the beach so as to see if he really had a clear
remembrance of it, and I asked it in such a way that
my companion at the sitting thought R. H.'s answer
" off the rocks " was probably wrong. My bath-house
was not on the beach, but on a point running far out
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 41
into the sea, very bold and rocky, and we used to
spring off the rocks into deep water, climbing out by
a perpendicular ladder fastened to the ledge. —D.]
I can see the little piazza that opened out from your
mother's room and the whole beautiful outlook from it,
over the water.
[That that piazza and its view should be one of E. H.'s
strongest recollections of the place seems to me most
natural, while at the same time the piazza itself, which
is not a conspicuous object in the house from without,
and which was only familiar to my mother's more
intimate friends, is not a thing which would occur
naturally to any one not familiar with our life down
there.—D.]
Mr. Dorr then asks B. H. if he remembers a walk he
once took with a young friend from New York, where B. H.
outwalked the other man and was very triumphant about it
afterward, and whether he could recall the man's name. He
also asks him if he remembers the name of the man who
lived in the farm house, where E. H. used generally to sleep
when staying at Oldf'arm. Both of these names would have
been quite familiar to E. H. in life. E. H. cannot give them
and makes no attempt to do so.
R. H. Names are the hardest things to remember ; it's extra-
ordinary but it's true. The scenes of my whole life
are laid open to me but names go from one's memory
like a dream. I remember walking through the woods
there and sitting down and lighting my pipe and coming
back late to lunch.
On June 20th, 1906, at a sitting of Miss Bancroft's, at
which Mr. Dorr was present, the E. H. control suddenly
writes :
Do you remember anything about Celery-root'? about
C e 1 1 e root 1
Miss B. (to G. B. D.)—Do you remember anything about it ?
G. B. D. No.
42 Professor William James. [part
Or was it at your place, George. [Difficult}' in reading
this sentence. When read successfully, G. B. D. says
"yes".]
Your mother used to have it, and I was surprised to see
it there as I thought it the best of it. As I thought
it the best part of it. The best part of it. No one
would ever think of this thing I know.
Miss B. You mean you think you got this at Mr. Dorr's 1
Think ! I know. I think so, yes. I think George's mother
used to have it and I never got it anywhere but there.
G. B. D. at first cannot recall what is meant, then remembers
and says " Good " . He appends the following note
[We used to have a bunch or two of raw celery, when we
grew our own, placed on the table as a hors d'ceuvre, and
served whole, with the upper portion of the root left on
it in the French fashion. This part of the root is very
good eating, but it is not usually served in America
and though I have no clear remembrance now of special
talk about this with Pi. H., I remember quite well his
talking at our table late one fall about these autumn
vegetables and think that what is spoken of is this.—D.]
On July 2nd, 1906, Mr. Dorr had a spoken sitting alone,
taking the short-hand record himself, and asked again for
Oldfarm recollections :
G. B. D. Can you give me any names connected with Bar Harbor,
or of the mountains there which you used to climb, or
of the people to whose houses you used to go with me, or
any others that you can recall 1
No, I can't recall any names now ... I will think it over
and try.
G. B. D. Can you recall four sisters whom we used to walk with, and
be much with, a number of years ago ?
I remember Minna and Gemma. [Names known to the
medium in former trances, but pertinent as a reply.]
G.B.D. I will give you the name of the sisters, and see if that
recalls anything to you. It was the Minturns.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 43
Oh ! the Minturns ! [repeated eagerly and emphatically].
There was Gertrude and Robert, a brother named Robert
and Mary. They lived in New York. I remember them
well. [Correct, save that Mary should have been May.]
G. B. D. There was another sister, who used to walk oftenest with
us—can you recall her name ?
[R. H. makes one or two ineffectual attempts, giving wrong
names.]
G. B. D. Now, Hodgson, can't you tell me something about the lady
you were interested in, whose letters you asked Pidding-
ton to find'?
This was Hulclah Densmore.
G. B. D. But there is no Huldah in the family, that I know, nor can
we learn of any. We have asked her sister, and she
has never heard the name of Huldah.
Wait a moment. Let me think. It is most difficult to get
earthly memories. They go from one, but I find that
they come back to me as I think of things. She married
a [name of nationality given correctly]. If you will
write to her, you will find I am right. Write to her !
G. B. D. Did you want to marry her 1
Yes, I did. And I remember what a disappointment it was
to me.
G. B. D. Was she out of sympathy with your work 1
She wanted me to give it up—it was a subject she did not
care to have to do with. [Correct as to the lady's
animus. —W.J.]
G. B. D. Was it at our house you met her'?
I met her there, at Bar Harbor. Your mother ought to
remember it well. She introduced us to each other.
[Correct.—I).]
G. B. D. But my mother is on your side.
Oh yes, I had forgotten. It has troubled me over here,
thinking I might have left her letters among my papers.
So I spoke to Piddington about it.
44 Professor William James. [part
G. B. D. I think you must have destroyed them. We didn't find
any.
I think I must have destroyed them—I hope I did.
[This " Huldah " episode is treated in a separate section of
Part I. of this report, see above, pp. 20-"26. —W. J.]
I recall the pansies your mother used to place over the table.
I remember that well—delightful to see them ! I can
see them now.
[My mother used to have pansies spread loosely over the
table-cloth, when she had people to dine or sup with us
at Bar Harbor, where we had a large bed of them planted
near the house so that we could get them freely for this
purpose. The custom is not common enough to let H.'s
statement pass for a happy guess, nor do I think it likely
he would have spoken of it to Mrs. Piper, either awake
or in trance. It came out quite suddenly also, and with
a positiveness which made me feel that it was a true
recollection, something seen at the moment in a mental
picture. —D.]
Or. B. D., endeavoring to extract Bar Harbor names from
Pt. H., again tries to get that of the man who occupied the
farmhouse at which R. H. used generally to sleep when at
Oldfarm. He was not able to give that, but gave the name
of the gardener, Miller. " It is possible," Mr. Dorr writes,
" that Mrs. Piper may have heard of Miller's name as that of
the manager of my plant-nurseries at Bar Harbor. I remember
I once meant to send her some plants from the nurseries for
her garden, and think it probable they went. It is also
possible that the name may have come up at the trance in
my own past sittings."
I remember a beautiful road, a bicycle-road you made, going
through the woods.
[A dozen years ago I made a bicycle-road on my own back-
land, which ran through the woods beneath a mountain
over which we often used to walk. It was a pleasant
and familiar feature in our summer life there, and it
would naturally be one of the pictures that would come
lviii.J Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 45
back to K. H. in thinking of the place, —like the view
from my mother's balcony of which he spoke at the former
sitting. But it is not a thing of which either' he or I
would have spoken to Mrs. Piper, whether in trance or
awake. —D.]
G. B. D. then tries again to get the name of the man who
occupied the farmhouse, describing him to E. H. without
mentioning his name.
Oh yes, I remember him well—I remember going off with
him once fishing—going down the shore in a boat. . . .
I remember one evening, and it impressed me so vividly
because your mother did not like it, and I felt we had
done wrong and hurt her—M. and I were smoking to-
gether and we talked too late, and she felt it was time
to retire
[This would be remarkably good if the incident should
prove not to have come up already in R. H.'s own
sittings after M. died. She used to smoke cigarettes
occasionally, and was the only person of the feminine
sex whom I now recall as having done so at our house.
Unless in possibly referring to this incident to her
'spirit' at trances, after M. died, Hodgson would have
been most unlikely to speak of it to others, —certainly
not to Mrs. Piper, either in trance or awake.—D.]
G. B. D. Do you remember where you went with John Rich when
you went fishing with him—Oh I forgot ! I did not
mean to give you his name !
John Rich, John, that is his name ! But I am sorry you
gave it to me too—it might have come to me. We
got a boat and went over to an island. Coming back
we had some difficulty in getting our fish in. We had
poor luck in catching them, and then we lost them.
Ask him, he will remember it, I think.
[R. H.'s recollection of going off with Rich seems to be
good, as I think it over. That he should go off with
Rich only and neither alone nor with me or other guests,
is exactly what happened,—and yet not what might
have been expected to happen. His going to an island
is descriptive also. —D.]
46 Professor William James. [part
Do you remember what you used to put over your back
that had a cup in it 1 And there was a little brook
where we used to stop and drink. And then I used
to stop and light my pipe —the whole scene is as vivid
to me ! If I could only express it to you !
[I used to carry a little canvas bag slung over my shoulder
and a cup in it, when we went on long tramps. This
may be what R. H. refers to, though I think that he
was rather apt to carry a folding leather cup of his
own in his pocket. The whole recollection is rather
vague in my memory, going back a number of years.
The picture is a good one of just what used to happen
when we were off on our tramps together, though of
course what he describes would be always apt to happen
on walks through woods and over mountains. The
picture of the little brook we used to stop and drink
at is good—I can see it now. —D.]
After some talk about the Tavern Club, about Australia, and
about the state of things in the other world—some of which
will be noticed later, R. H. goes on as follows
Do you remember one summer there was a gentleman at
your house who had a violin. I had some interesting
talks with him about these things, and I liked to hear
him play his violin. A little gentleman—I remember
him very well.
[This describes a man named von G., who was an excellent
violinist and who also talked interestingly on psychical
research matters, in which he professed to have some
faculty. As R. H. himself was also fond of the violin,
it seems natural that some memory of von G. should
stand out now. That Mrs. Piper should have any know-
ledge of this gentleman seems most improbable. —-D.]
My earthly memories come only in fragments. I remember
quite well this little gentleman and how interested I
was in talking with him about psychics, and in his
instrument as well. I remember a man Royce visiting
you.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 47
[Prof. Koyce says that he has been at Oldfarm along with
Hodgson, but adds that that might be a natural
association in Mrs. Piper's mind, since he thinks that
the only time he ever saw her was at the Dorrs' in
Boston.—W. J.]
This is, I think, the whole of the matter relative to
Oldfarm which the R H.-Control has given. The number of
items mentioned is not great, and some inability to answer
questions appears. But there are almost no mistakes of fact,
and it is hardly possible that all the veridical points should
have been known to Mrs. Piper normally. Some of them
indeed were likely a priori ; others may have been chance-
hits ; but for the mass, it seems to me that either reading
of Mr. Dorr's mind, or spirit-return, is the least improbable
explanation.
The fewness of the items may seem strange to some critics.
But if we assume a spirit to be actually there, trying to
reach us, and if at the same time we imagine that his
situation with regard to the transaction is similar to our own,
the surprise vanishes. I have been struck over and over
again, both when at sittings myself and when reading the
records, at the paralyzing effect on one's ready wit and
conversational flow, which the strangeness of the conditions
brings with it. Constraint and numbness take the place of
genial expansiveness. We " don't know what to say," and
it may also be so " on the other side." Few persons, I
fancy, if suddenly challenged to prove their identity through
the telephone, would quickly produce a large number of facts
appropriate to the purpose. They would be more perplexed,
and waste more time than they imagine.
I next pass to what I will call
The Owl's Head Series.
Owl's Head was the name of the summer place of Miss
Bancroft, overlooking Rockland Harbor, in Maine, where Mrs.
Piper had never been. E. H. had very greatly enjoyed visits
which he had made there on two successive summers. Miss
Bancroft had been a sitter of Mrs. Piper's and was a convert
to spiritism, with some degree of " psychic " susceptibility
48 Professor William James. [part
herself. At her first sitting after Hodgson's death, Feb. 19th,
1906, Mr. Dorr also being present, the following dialog took
place :
1
I am Hodgson! Speak! Well, well, well, I am delighted
to see you. How are you 1
Miss B. I am all right. How are you?
First rate.
Miss B. I can scarcely speak to you.
But you must speak to me.
Miss B. Will you give me some definite message 1
?
Surely I will. I have called and called to you. Do you
remember what I said to you about coming here if I
got a chancel
Miss B. Yes, I do.
I wish you to pay attention to me. [The sitter and Mr.
Dorr were together trying to decipher the script.] Do
you remember how I used to talk about this subject,
evenings 1 You know what you said about my writing
I think I am getting on first-rate.
[Everything accurate so far ! Miss B. can herself write auto-
matically, and since R. H.'s departure, has thought that
he might have been influencing her subconsciousness in
that and other ways. The words " I have called," etc.,
she interprets in this sense. Rector, however, already
knew of her automatic writing. —W. J.]
Do you remember what a good time we had at Head? I
am so glad I went. . . . Do you remember a little talk
we had about the lights and satellites 1 Do you re-
member how interested you were ? Do you remember
what I used to say about returning if I got over here
first?
1
Here, as in all the rest of the records reprinted, I omit repetitions and
remarks not connected with the recollections. Nothing is omitted, however,
which in my eyes might affect the interpretation of what is printed. —W. J.
LVIII.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 4!)
Miss B. Yes, I remember all that.
[Accurate again. The "Head" must mean Owl's Head,
where during two successive summers Hodgson had
visited the sitter, and been supremely happy. The
" lights " refer to the lights of Rockland, across the bay,
of which he greatly admired the effect, and at night on
the piazza he had often spoken about the planets and
stars, and the question of their habitation. —M. B.]
Well, here I am, now fire away, now fire.
Miss B. Can you tell me the names of some who were with you
there last summer 1
?
Remember Miss Wilkinson
1
?
Miss B. No.
You ask me about whom ? Not understand. How are the
children ? [The house had been full of school children,
of whom R. H. was fond.—M. B.]
Miss B. They are well.
Good ! Do you remember the day I walked across to the
Mountain 1
Miss B. No, I don't remember.
Ask Putnam if he and I—My watch stopped.
[For this reference to a watch stopping, compare pp. 11 and
116 of this report. I suspect some confused memory of
a real incident to be at the bottom of it. —W. J.]
Miss B. Can you not recall something you did at the Head ?
That is just what I am trying to do. Don't you remember
how I had to laugh at you, laugh on that boat, about
that boat?
This last word, being wrongly deciphered as " hat," Miss B.
asks :
Miss B. Whose hat blew off?
My hat, do you not remember the day it blew off? Yes,
you are not following me very clearly.
D
50 Professor William James. [part
Miss B. I am trying to recall about that hat.
Do you remember fishing 1 Yes.
Miss B. Yes, I remember fishing.
Capital ! Remember about my hat 1 went into the water.
Miss B. Yes, I think I do.
I should say you did. Oh my ! but I am not so stupid as
some I know. I have not forgotten anything. Get my
Poem ?
Miss B. Yes, and I want to thank you for it.
Don't bother about that. I want you to know I am really
here and recognize you, and the first-rate time I had
at Owl's Thank you very much. How is Bayley 1
Certainly first-rate time I had at Owl's. Thank you
very much. Owl's. Remember the jokes I told you 1
?
Jsp. Thank you. Remember what I said about dressing
them [or " him ? "] 1 Remember 1 Oh I do well. . . .
Miss B. How am / getting along 1
Capital ! You are doing well, all you need is experience.
I would like to take a swim ! I would like to take a
swim. Plunge.
[Much incoherence hereabouts. The names Bayley and
Jessup (Jsp) are correct. Hodgson used to bathe with
them off* the rocks, and Miss B. recalls jokes between
them about dressing there. H. and they went deep-sea
fishing almost daily. One day Dr. B. and R. H. went
fishing in a gasolene launch, and on their return had
much riotous laughter about some happenings in the
boat. Miss B. can remember nothing definite about a
hat, but is inclined to interpret the allusion as referring
to this incident. The "poem" she conceives to be the
verses " It seems as if the wondrous land," etc., written
at Miss Pope's sitting of Feb. 5th. See Part I. of this
report, p. 11. —W. J.]
On the following day Miss B. had a second sitting, and R. H.
asked " How is Nellie ?
" [Nellie is a member of Miss B.'s
lviil] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 51
household, presumably unknown to Mrs. Piper, about whom
E. H. always used during his lifetime to inquire.]
On the night of Hodgson's death, Miss B., whom I described
above as having " psychic " aptitudes, had received a strong
impression of his presence. She now asks
Miss B. Yesterday you said you had "called and called" me. When
did you ever call me 1
Just after I passed out I returned to you and saw you
resting . . . and came and called to you telling you I
was leaving. . . .
Miss B. Did I not answer 1
Yes, after a while.
Miss B. What did I do 1
You arose and seemed nervous. I felt I was disturbing you.
I then left.
Miss B. Do you not recall another time when I was sure you were
there and I did something ? . . . What did I do at one
o'clock, Christmas morning 1
I saw you, I heard you speak to me once, yes. I heard you
speak to some one, and it looked like a lady. You took
something in your hand, and I saw you and heard you
talking.
Miss B. Yes, that is true.
I heard you say something about some one being ill, lying
in the room. [Nellie was ill in my room.—M. B.]
Miss B. Yes, that is true. I also said something else.
You said it was myself.
Miss B. Yes, I said that. Anything else 1
I remember seeing the light, and heard you talking to a
lady. [Correct.—M. B.]
Miss B. The lady did something after I talked to her.
You refer to the message, she sat down and wrote a
message for me. [I do not understand what is meant
52 Professor William James. [part
by this, unless it be a confused reference to Miss Pope's
reception of a message to me in the sitting of Feb. 5th.
—M. B.] [See Part I., p. 11.—W. J.] 1
There was nothing more of interest from Hodgson at this
sitting. Dr. Bayley, to whom reference was made in con-
nexion with Owl's Head, at Miss Bancroft's first sitting, had
two sittings in April, in which the hearty and jocose mannerisms
of B. H. were vividly reproduced ;
but there was a good deal
of confusion, owing to Dr. Bayley's lack of familiarity with
the handwriting ; and the evidential material, so far as the
Hodgson-control (whom we are alone concerned with) went,
was comparatively small. One passage was thus
R. H. Get that book I sent you ?
Djr. B. I received the book right, after your death.
[Hodgson had addressed some books and some cards to be
sent to friends as Christmas presents. They were mailed
after his death on December 20th. It should be added
that Miss Bancroft had at her sitting of Feb. informed
Bector that such a book had come to her, and Bector
associated her and Doctor Bayley as friends.]
Have you seen Billy ? [My friend Prof. Newbold.—B.]
Dr. B. No, have you any word for him ?
1
A propos to Miss Bancroft's " psychic " susceptibility, at a sitting on
October 17th, 1906, which Mrs. M. had with Mrs. Piper, the following words
were exchanged :
Mrs. M. Any other messages, Dick?
R. H. Not for him [the person last spoken of], but tell Margaret it was I who
produced that light she saw the other night.
The sitter immediately wrote to Miss Margaret Bancroft, with whom she
had recently become acquainted, to ask (not telling her of the message)
whether she had had any special experiences of late. Miss B. answered
"I had a very curious experience on the morning of the 14th. At four o'clock
I was awakened from a sound sleep, and could feel distinctly the presence of
three people in the room. I sat up and was so attentive that I hardly breathed.
About nine feet from the floor there appeared at intervals curious lights, much
like searchdights, but softer, and there seemed to be a distinct outline of a
figure. . . . This lasted probably from fifteen to twenty minutes . . . when I
went into a sound sleep."
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 53
Ask him if he remembers the day we went to the seashore
and we sat on the beach, and I told him how I hoped
to come over here any time, only I wanted to finish
my work. And ask him if he remembers what I told
him about my getting married.
Dr. B. I don't know anything about it. That's a good test.
[Proves to have been correct. —W. J.]
Also ask him if he remembers what I said about the
children of my old friend Pilly.
[W. R. N. remembers R. H. telling him of a certain
"Pilly," but forgets about the children.]
No one living could know this but Billy. . . .
I ask if you recall the fishing process.
Dk. B. Why, Dick, it will be very sad fishing without you.
[R. H. and I had done much deep-sea fishing together, but
my supposition that this was meant may have deflected
him from some explanation of the " fishing " process of
the controls at the sittings. —B.]
I wonder if you remember Miss Nellie.
Dr. B. Perfectly.
Give her my kindest regards. . . . Got your feet wet
Dr. B. Tell me more about that, Dick.
Do you remember how I put my pipe in the water ? Do you
remember my putting my coat on the seat, and my pipe
got into the water] Remember ducking]
Dr. B. Ducking ]
I said plunge.
Dr. B. Plunge ]
Yes ! Let's take a plunge.
Dr. B. Yes indeed !
ALL.
54 Professor William James. [part
Be. B. Who was along with us, Dick 1
Jess—. . . I got it in my head. [Dr. Jessup is correct. —B.]
Do you remember the Head 1 Oh I think it was the best
summer I ever had. Best, best, best. . . . Do you
remember laugh about Mitchell 1 Laugh ? [This might
refer to a very distinct incident involving a friend named
MacDaniel.—B.] Idiosyncracies . . . [What immediately
followed was illegible.]
On the next clay, April 4th, Dr. B. says to Hodgson :
De. B. Give me your password if you can to-day.
Password 1 I had no less than forty. One was shoeing.
Yes, yes, do you remember ?
Dr. B. Of course I don't remember about your passwords ; but you
wrote Mrs. Bayley a charade of your own making, and if
you can give the answer to that it will be a splendid
test.
Shoo fly, shoo fly 1 [It runs in my head that these words
were answers to charades propounded last summer, but
I can get no confirmation and may be mistaken.—B.]
Dr. B. I have the letter with the charade here. (Puts it into the
medium's hand.)
Doctor, this is peacemaker, peacemaker. I gave this word in
my letter. Shoo fly.
[Miss Bancroft writes: "I have a dim recollection about
'
peacemaker '.
I feel very sure about '
shoo fly '."]
Dr. B. I will look it up. [There were two charades in the letter
handed to the medium, but the words given answer neither
of them. —B.]
Do you remember anything about that awful cigar and my
joke about it? [Mrs. Bayley remembers a cigar so huge
that neither R. H. nor I would smoke it. He finally
broke it up and smoked it in his pipe. This may have
been the joke referred to. —B.]
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 55
Doc, [This was not E. H.'s usual way of addressing me. —B.]
that is peacemaker ! And to Mrs. B. I felt I said shoo
fly. If you knew the difficulties I am having, you would
smile out loud. . . . Can you play ball 1
Dr. B. Well, H., neither of us were very active ball-players in the
country.
Listen, do you remember our late hours 1
Dr. B. Indeed I do. [R. H. and I used to sit out on the porch
smoking to untimely hours. —B.]
Got your sleep made up yet 1
Dr. B. Not quite.
Next followed some rather unintelligible as well as illegible
references to skinning fish and baling a boat. Then :
Do you remember how we tried to make many words out
of one ? [Compare Piddington's Report, Proceedings, Vol.
XXII, p. 65.—W. J ]
Dr. B. Yes.
And the fun we had ?
Dr. B. Yes. [R. H. had enjoyed doing this with some of the ladies
at Owl's Head.—B.]
Do you remember reading in the evening ?
Dr. B. Well enough.
Remember the joke I told you about Blats [Blavatsky] . . .
and her tricks 1 [Correct, but matter of common know-
ledge.—W. J.]
Dr. B. Now, Dick, do you remember some of the words of the song
which we all sang so much, and which you brought there
last summer ?
Song % awful ! song 1
Dr. B. It begins " Come, I will sing you."
Oh yes !
—gone out of my head like a shot
56
Dr. B. Yes, Dick.
Professor William James. [part
Listen, let me tell you something. Do you remember a little
song I sang to the children which went like this :
" Little
Popsey Wopsey . . . Chickey Biddy Chum . . . all . . .
I am tired.
Dr. B. Dick, that was splendid, I remember it well. [Known
also to Mrs. Piper.—W. J.]
Do you remember my palming tricks 1
Dr. B. Yes. [Known also to Mrs. Piper. —W. J.]
And how you all seemed to enjoy them 1 . . . I am getting
clearer since I have met you here. It helps in recalling
many things I had almost forgotten. Listen, do you
remember my recitation of a Hindoo ?
Dr. B. No, I don't remember that.
Which reads like this: "I think till I'm weary of thinking
Dr. B. Yes, I know that well. [Known also to Mrs. Piper. —W. J.]
Do you remember my letter to Will, in which I told him
of the delight of the place ? [Possibly a misreading for
" depth of the piece "].
Dr. B. Who is Will ?
Will James. Or perhaps I didn't read it to you after all.
Dr. B. No, I didn't hear that letter. [I recall no letter either
about the "place," or about the "piece," but my memory
is so bad that that proves nothing. I have heard the
" piece," however, and heard it from Hodgson. —W. J.]
. . . Ask Margaret Bancroft if she remembers telling me
about you and Mrs. Bayley giving her a watch. I am
glad I found her after I came over. I think she is perfectly
sincere and a light. [Miss Bancroft writes :
" I felt
badly about accepting the watch, and consulted Mr.
Hodgson about it. He said a number of things about
my sensitiveness, and after that I felt all right about the
watch. I don't think I told anybody of this interview
with Dr. Hodgson. As regards my '
sincerity,' the last
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 57
talk I had with him was on that very subject. ... He
said he would certainly convince Dr. Bayley of my
sincerity." The reader knows already that Miss Bancroft
is a "light."]
On June 20th, 1906, Miss Bancroft had her third sitting.
Some days previous to this, Mrs. M., an old friend of Hodgson,
had taken to her sitting a cross which remained among his
effects, and asked the B. H. control for directions concerning
its disposition. The control had ordered it to be sent to
Miss Bancroft ; and when he appeared to Miss Bancroft at
the sitting a few days later almost his first word was
Get my cross 1
Miss B. Yes, thank you very much. . . .
A Mascot I send to you.
Miss B. Yes, I know you sent it to me.
I shall be with you when you are in the cottage.
Miss B. Do you know that I have bought the place 1
Of course I do. I understand pretty well what you are
about. [Miss B. had been enabled to buy the land at
Owl's Head since her sittings in the previous February.]
. . . There is more help coming to you to enlarge the house.
. . . You remember you thought it necessary to have
more room.
Miss B. Yes, I remember very well.
Did you see me in your dream with my trousers rolled up
at the bottom ?
Miss B. I am not sure that I did.
I spoke to you and you replied.
Miss B. I have seen you several times in dreams.
Remember my knock 1
Miss B. When did you knock ']
You were sleeping.
58 Professor William James. [part
Miss B. I remember twice when I thought some one knocked my
arm.
But I woke you, I certainly did. [Correct.]
Miss B. Can't you do me a favor by knocking now ? . . .
Not while I keep on speaking. You wish me to knock
your arm now, eh ? I cannot do so and keep on speaking.
Do you remember the evening I told you about my sister
Ellen's boy?
Miss B. I do not recall it.
Yes, Ellen's boy and his passing over.
Do you remember—Enid? What I told you about her
1
?
And her poems ? A scholarship and her poems ?
Miss B. I remember all that. [He had told me a great deal about
this niece Enid.—M.B. Mrs. Piper denies knowledge
of her existence. —W. J.]
Listen. I am in the witness box ! I am trying to help
you to recognize me. . . .
Do you remember anything about celery root? . . . [See
above, p. 41.]
Margaret do you remember the walk through the woods ?
Miss B. Yes, I remember it.
Do you remember " Let us sing of—sing you
Let us sing of a
Miss B. Yes, I understand.
No you do not. No song.
Miss B. Yes I do. Try and give it to me.
I am but you do not understand. You do not understand
at all. Let us sing the old song.
Miss B. You mean the song "Come let us sing"?
Yes.
Miss B. Tell me what it is.
I am telling you. '
Come let us sing the—what would you
sing—sing—sing
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 59
[He taught us a song last summer "Come I will sing you"
and the response was "What will you sing me?" "I
will sing you one oh," etc. My idea is that he wanted
to have me give him the next line and probably he
would have been able to give me the text and perhaps
the whole song or part of it, but I did not understand
what he wanted to do. —M. B.]
Miss Bancroft had two more sittings, on Dec. 2nd and 3rd,
1907. On Dec. 2nd Hodgson seemed to be cognizant of
certain changes in the Owl's Head place, that there was a
new wall-paper of yellow colour, a new bath-house, a new
pier and platform, etc., none of which facts Mrs. Piper was in
a way to have known.
He also showed veridical knowledge of a very private
affair between two other people, that had come under Miss
Bancroft's observation. There was, however, some confusion in
this sitting, and E. H. was not " strong." The results were
better on Dec. 3rd, but the evidential parts do not lend
themselves well to quotation, with one exception, as follows
Miss B. Don't you remember something that happened that you
helped us in 1
I remember that one evening
Miss B. What happened that evening 1
We got a little fire and I helped. Yes.
Miss B. Yes, that is true.
Put it out the fire I remember it well.
Miss B. What did you tell us to get before the fire occurred 1
Before the fire ?
Miss B. You told us to get something for the house.
I said you ought to get a in case of fire pail,
yes.
[Here the hand drew three long horizontal lines, which
might have meant shelves, and beneath them the outline
of a vessel with a cover.]
60 Professor William James. [part
Miss B. What are they for ?
Water pails water pails yes, fire buckets fire
Yes, I did.
[He told us in Maine, when we were experimenting with
Mrs. Austin by automatic writing, to get fire buckets
and put them up on the shelves, which we did long
before the fire occurred. He warned us of this fire many
times, but no one seemed to pay much attention to it
but myself.— M. B.]
Miss B. What did you tell us to put on them 1
Go on you will find that I am not asleep.
Miss B. I never thought you were asleep.
So much for the Owl's Head record, which, as the reader
sees, follows a not incoherent thread of associated facts.
Few of the items were false, but on the other hand it
must be remembered that a mind familiar with Hodgson's
O
tastes and habits might have deduced some of them (swimming
and fishing, for example) a priori by combining the two abstract
ideas " Hodgson " and " seaside." Leakages impossible now to
follow might also account for the medium's knowledge of such
items as the names Nellie, Jessup, etc., for her connecting
Dr. Bayley with " Billy," etc. For the " fire-buckets," " watch,"
" sincerity," and other items, it would seem necessary to invoke
either lucky chance or telepathy, unless one be willing to
admit spirit-return. I should say that I have condensed the
record considerably, leaving out some matter irrelevant to Owl's
Head memories, some repetitions and all the talk that grew out
of slowness in deciphering the script.
Dr. Bayley himself wrote me after his sittings :
" They are
pretty good, and have about convinced me (as evidence added
to previous experience) that my much loved friend is still
about. I had had either four or six sittings, some of them
in conjunction with Miss Bancroft, before R. H.'s death. I
do not think that Mrs. Piper normally knew me by name,
or knew that I was from Philadelphia or that I knew
ISTewbold. I realize that the average reader of these records
lviil] Report on Mrs. Piper s Hodgson-Control. 61
loses much in the way of little tricks of expression and per-
sonality, subtleties impossible to give an account of in language.
As I look over the sittings and realize my own blunders in
them, I cannot always decide who was the more stupid, the
communicator, or myself."
The message given to Dr. Bayley for " Billy " (i.e. Prof.
Wm. B. Newbold) makes it natural to cite next the experience
of this other intimate friend of B. H. Brof. Newbold had two
written sittings, on June 27th and July 3rd, 1906, respec-
tively, Mr. Dorr being present both times. On June 27th,
after a few words with Bector, Hodgson appears, and the
dialog continues as follows
R. H. Well, well, of all things ! Are you really here ! I am
W. R. N. Hallo, Dick !
Hello, Billy, God bless you.
W. R. N. And you, too, though you do not need to have me say it.
I wonder if you remember the last talk we had together
W. R. N. I do remember it, Dick.
I can recall very [well all I said to you that glorious day
when we were watching the waves. [Our last talk was
on a splendid afternoon of July, 1905, at Nantasket
Beech.—N.]
I told you of many, many predictions which had been
made for me. I told you I hoped to realize them but
I would not consent to give up my work.
Professor Newbold's Sittings.
Hodgson.
W. R. N. Yes, Dick, I remember it well.
W. R. N. First rate, Dick, you told me just that.
I would give up almost anything else but my work my
W. R. N.
work and my pipe.
Dick, that sounds like you.
Don't you remember 1
62 Professor William James. [part
W. R. N. Do you remember something / told you on the boat going
to Nantasket ?
Yes of course. Long ago you wrote me of your happiness
and I wrote back and asked you if you were trying
to make me discontented.
W. E. N. I don't remember, but I have your letters and will look
it up.
[This allusion to my " happiness " is very characteristic.
He often spoke to me of it. —N.]
Look over your letters and you will find my memory
better than yours.
W. R. N. Like as not ! Like as not
I have hoped to boss things on this side. [R. H. had often
told me of his belief that if he could "pass over" and
communicate, many of the difficulties of the spiritualistic
theory would disappear. I can mentally see him now
shaking his pipe at me threateningly and saying :
" If
I get over before you, Billy, I'll make things hot
for you."—1ST.]
W. R. N. Yes, Dick, so you did.
Therefore if I seem bossy pardon me Bossy
Pardon.
W. R. N. Go ahead, Dick, be as bossy as you will. I have nothing
to say to you until you get through.
Good. That's what I wish. I remember telling you how
you must not write more about your happiness.
W. R. N. Did you tell me this on the trip or in the letter 1
In the letter.
W. R. N. First-rate ! I have piles of letters. I will go through them.
If you do you will find it all. [I cannot find it in the
letters. —N.] Oh, I am so delighted to see you of all
persons.
W. R. N. Well, you were a dear friend of mine.
I had the greatest affection for you.
lviii.] Report on Mrs Pipers Hodgson-Control. 63
W. R. N. Do you remember what a friend you were to me, years ago 1
Yes, I do, and how I helped you through some difficulties'
W. R. N. I should say you did, Dick !
But I do not care to remind you of anything I did !
only as a test •
only as a test.
W. R. N. Yes, that's right, we wish a test.
I remember how delighted I was with your experiences.
W. R. N. You were !
You told me much about them which I recall most clearly—
recall.
W. R. N. Right ! [What follows refers to the trip to Nantasket and
was probably preceded by some reference to it on my
part which the record omits. —N.]
You and I had smoked [Correct.] until I got a dip
W. R. N. Right
and we walked along the shore
W. R. N. Right, Dick !
and waited until the boat returned. [We had to wait
perhaps twenty or thirty minutes.—-N.]
W. R. N. Dick, what did we do while waiting 1
We took a dip and went to hear some music.
W. R. N. No, we did not ;
you took a dip.
I say / took a dip and you sat and watched me.
W. R. N. After that what did we do ?
We went and got some let me think !
W. R. N. I can't read that, Dick.
A drink drink. I asked you to have cigar. Cigar
and something else.
W. R. N. That is true about the cigar. Go on.
At the moment I do not think what it was.
64 Professor William James. [part
W. R. N. All right, it is not worth the trouble.
Do you remember anything about sausages I cooked ?
W. R. N. Indeed I do ! Many a one you cooked for breakfast.
Yes, and how you laughed about them.
W. R. N. I said they were the best I ever tasted, Dick.
Yes, I remember.
[A passage is omitted here in which veridical reference is
made to a private subject of which we had talked. —N.]
I do not catch all you say, Billy, too bad. Speak
slowly, old chap, and I shall understand. I asked
you about your [word undecipherable] and you said
you thought you were not half worthy of all you had
received.
W. R. N. Well, I thought it ; I don't remember saying it to you.
You did say it once in my room.
W. R.N. I can believe it, Dick; I have thought it a thousand times.
[A remark was next ascribed to me which exactly expressed
what I had thought, though I am forced to omit it. —N.]
I gave you a long explanation of the whole modus operandi
and you were a very good listener. Do you remember
the day 1
W. R. N. I do not remember the details. I remember in a general
way talking about it. [I recalled the details clearly as
soon as I had thought it over. The " long explanation
"
was made in H.'s room in June, 1904.—N.]
All right. Good, listen. And you and I met in New York
and I advised you what to do 1
W. R. N. Was it in New York or Boston ? In Boston, wasn't it ?
You and I went to the theatre.
W. R. N. Certainly we did.
And then to my club.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 65
W. R. N. Right, yes, that is right, Dick.
And to my rooms where I cooked sausages and made tea.
W. R. N. Yes, you gave me the first good tea I ever tasted !
[Statements are here omitted relating to a person deceased.
True on the whole, but not evidentially significant. —N.]
Do you remember that clergyman
W. R. N. Try the last word again.
Who was a medium in Philadelphia
1
?
W. R. N. I do, I think I do . A clergyman who was an
Episcopalian.
Yes. Went into trance. Yes.
W. R. N. Yes, I know what you are thinking of, but he was not a
clergyman.
[Word name perhaps written several times but
undecipherable. Some years later I had met a clergy-
man who was mediumistic, but did not go into trance.
Hodgson knew of his case, but had never met him.
The two cases seem to be confused. —N.]
And his wife was afraid of him.
W. R. N. No, I don't remember that, Dick.
You have them mixed up in your mind.
W. R. N. Very likely.
I saw a young man who went into trance.
VV. R. N. That's right, yes.
And do you remember my opinion of him ?
W. R. N. Yes, Dick, I remember your opinion of him. Tell me
what it was !
I thought he was hysterical and induced his trances through
hysteria. I remember telling you about [name given,
but omitted here], and by the way, Billy, do you recall
his ideas on this subject?
66 Professor William James. [part
W. R. N. Yes, I do. His ideas 1
Yes, all about it. The devil?
W. E. N. He thought it was the devil?
Yes. The devil has nothing to do with it. I laughed when
you told me about it.
W. R. N. Now, Dick, have you any more to say 1
Do you remember the story I told you about the girl who
said her prayers?
W. R. N. No, I do not remember. Perhaps I might if you told me.
Yes. And when she got through she said she was sure
she thought the devil was prompting her prayer. [I
remember no such anecdote. —N.]
W. R. N. No, Dick ; but I want you to tell me, if you possibly can,
something I told you on the boat going down to
Nantasket, just before we got there.
About your home-life ?
W. R. N. No, it was about my work, Dick.
Oh yes, I recall you said you would like to give it up.
W. R. N. No, Dick, I did not say that. [I had just resigned
my eight years of Deanship and was very glad of the
relief. If E. H.'s remark referred to that fact, it was
apposite. —N.]
Not for anything ! [Seemingly meant to suit my answer.
_K]
Do you remember our talk about hypnotism ?
W. R. N. Yes, we talked about hypnotism.
And hypnotising students. You said your mind was on
your work and how much you liked it.
W. R. N. Yes, I said that. There was a lot more I said, but never
mind it. Let it go.
I will give it all eventually—eventually. Yes. I am in
the witness-box.
Lvrn.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 67
W. R. N. Poor Dick !
Poor Dick ! Not much ! Poor Dick ! Not much ! Fire
away ! I recall your psychological teaching very clearly
[R. H. next goes "out" to rest, but returns after a brief
interval of Rector.]
Hello, Billy! All right? All right now? You told me
you were working on some interesting work which you
enjoyed better than anything you had done in years.
You said you would not give it up for anything !
W. R. N. Right, Dick. Now before we got on the boat, to go out
to Nantasket, what did we do 1
I believe we went to the hotel and got some bite [word
not clear] to eat.
W. R. N. No ! No !
Drink [word not clear] No ! Do let me think what I
gave you. I asked if you would get weighed.
W. R. N. I believe you did. I am not sure now. Don't bother
about it any more. It is not worth the trouble.
I did ! You said I and joked about your weight.
Don't you recall 1
W. R. N. I don't remember, but I often have joked about my
weight and I dare say I did with you then.
I remember drinking Yes, and I said I did not
take beer. Yes, you asked me, I remember well. I re-
member the water well. You smoked cigar, and I
also pipe [I smoked a cigarette, but not a
cigar. —N.]
W. R. N. No, let us drop the trip to Nantasket, Dick. I think you
have told me all you remember about the trip to
Nantasket that you can.
I have it surely right as it was the last time I saw you !
I remember it as it was the last time I saw you.
G8 Professor William James. [part
W. R. N. That's right, Dick, it was the very last time I saw you.
Do you remember the stand near the boat where we went
W.R.N. Where we went to get a what, Dick? Write that once
more ! [Word undecipherable.]
W. R. N. No, it's long since I have had experience in the writing.
I understand. Therefore I am doing my best to make it
clear.
[The communicator now professes to report a conversation
which I had with a definitely named person who died
some years ago—N.]
He told me he did not approve or believe in your having
anything to do with this subject. [True. —N.]
He thought it was the devil and you had better keep
out of it.
He said he would try to reach you if such were possible.
[I saw the person here referred to not long before his
death. He made no reference of any kind to the future
life. Such a promise as is here ascribed to him is quite
incongruous with all I ever knew of him—I do not
believe the thought would have occurred to him. —N.]
He did tell me so and before he left his body he felt a
little different. But he wants to see you very much
very much indeed and tell you how he under-
stands your life now.
W. R. N. Can you tell me from him what he said before he passed
out of the body ?
Yes. He said you said "Come to me if you are alive."
W. R. N. No, Dick, you've got that wrong !
Wait a minute. Listen, Billy. You said "I wish you to
be with me."
in and got a "Life" —
illegibility followed.—N.]
[I don't recall this. —Some
You do not get it very clearly, Billy.
W. R. N. Bight.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 69
W". R. N. No, Dick, that's wrong ;
you had better try to get it
another time when the light is clearer.
Listen, Billy, you said when you get to the the other
side you will know know. [Incorrect. —N.]
W.R.N. Did I say that to him, Dick?
He told me you said so. He said so, and he thought he
was not going to live here. I have talked with him
about it often and he thought he would not live.
[W. R. N. now repeats that so long as the "light" is not
clear K. H. bad better not stay.]
Yes. Yes, I will return when the light is clear and tell
you clearly.
W. R. N. Now, Dick, many of my relatives have passed to your side
and if you see them you can give me their names.
Good. I will find all I can and report to you. I will
report to you.
W. R. N. Names are good tests.
Exactly, I remember. Look up those letters. I am going
now. I am holding on to a figment ! Goodbye ! God
bless you ! R. H.
The Hodgson part of the sitting of July 3rd was as
follows
(R. H.) I am Hodgson.
W. R. N. Hallo, Dick !
I am glad to meet you, Billy, old chap ! How are you ?
First-rate 1
W. R. N. Yes I am, Dick !
Capital. Good. So am I. I come to assure you of my
continued existence. Do you remember what I said
to you the last time I left you after our experiment
with that young man ? I said hysteria was the cause
of his trances.
70 Professor William James. [part
W. R, N. Exactly, yes.
He could not kadoodle me.
W. R. N. That is a new word to me.
I made that up—ask Judah.
[Mr. Judah writes of his sitting of March 27th or 28th :
"I tried to get K. H. to repeat a word which he
had used in one of our long conversations. It was
'
kadoodle '
—I think he must have coined it for the
occasion. He could not or at least did not give
it." —As this attempt was during a trance, the reference
to Mr. Judah in Newbold's sitting has no evidential
bearing. —W. J.]
Tell me about your wife—is she well ?
W. R. N. Yes, better than for these many years.
Capital! Glad to hear it. Remember me to her.
W. R. N. All right, Dick, I will.
Give me something of my own. ... I shall be clearer
in a minute. Billy, do you remember how depressed
you were at one time, and how I used to advise you'?
W. R. N. Indeed I do.
And did it not result in good 1
W. R. N. Indeed it did, Dick. You did advise me just as you say,
and it did result in good.
I have memories, many memories—let me remind you of
a few of them as I recall them now.
W. R. N. All right, Dick. Go ahead.
Do you remember the man with whom you and I
experimented in Philadelphia?
Do you remember the name he gave me as being my
sister's 1
W. R. N. No, Dick, I don't remember, but go on and give me all
you can about him.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 71
Do you remember when I asked him about hypnotism, he
said he was not a good subject, and you and I had
a good laugh over it after he left.
W. R. N. I don't remember that either, Dick. Do you remember
who was with us when we experimented with him ?
You, myself, —yes, and Dr. Hyslop. [Hyslop was not
there. —W. R. N.] Do you remember a young student
in whom you and I were intensely interested. We
hypnotized him several times, but with little result.
[Possibly refers to a medical student whom I hypnotized
in 1899 with ver}' interesting results. I wrote to H.
and arranged experiments (apparent clairvoyance). But
H. never saw him. —N.]
W. R. N. Bless my soul ! I think it must be **** I will get
your letters. I may find something about it in them.
You certainly will. Have you looked up my last reference 1
W. R. N. I can't ; I'm in Boston and my letters are in Philadelphia.
Oh, of course, I understand. Help me if I seem stupid.
W. R. N. No, you are not stupid, I am.
I wish to remind you of things of which you are not
thinking, so far as possible.
W. R. N. Yes, that's good.
Do you remember the case of a clergyman— ?
W. R. N. Yes, certainly. I remember a clergyman who lived in
Philadelphia and thought he had supernormal experiences,
and I told you about them.
"Why didn't you say so before ? Yes. I just told you
about the case of hysteria—and you were interested in
telepathy. [The young clergyman had professed to
have telepathic powers—he cheated. —-N.]
W. R. N. Is this the case you were talking about at the last
sitting ?
Of course he was. You asked me what experiments we
tried with him.
72 Professor William James. [part
W. R. N. That is right.
I said telepathic experiments, and some were pretty poor.
W. R. N. Right.
Do you remember, Billy . . . ? [A veridical reference here
which W. R. N. prefers to omit.]
W. R. N. Yes, Dick.
I am delighted to recall your telling me you were happy
and contented and how pleased you were with your
classes —
W. R. N. Right, Dick.
And how readily your work was being accepted. You were
so happy about it all. It gave me great delight.
W. R. N. Thank you.
You certainly did. You also told me of your advancement
in a material way.
W. R, N. Yes, I told you that, that is right.
Which pleased me greatly.
W. R. N. Yes, Dick, it did !
You were my counterpart—counterpart in expressions of
delight. You and I were very pleased and I told
you I would not give up my work even for a wife.
[I don't recall this remark, but it sounds characteristic. —^N].
W. R. N. Yes, Dick, you are very clear and easy to understand.
I am glad to hear it. I am trying my level best to
give you facts.
W. R/N. Very good.
I said my pipe and my work would not be given up
even for a wife. Oh how you have helped me, Billy.
Yes, in clearing my mind wonderfully.
[I omit here a few sentences from R. H. in which he
credits me with a remark I have often made to him,
seldom to others. —Important veridically. —N.]
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 73
W. R. N. Dick, I have told you that twenty times.
You have certainly, but Billy, I used to say it was the
most important thing in the world I believed.
[Refers next to psychical research and in particular to the
Piper case.]
You said you could not understand why so many mistakes
were made, and I talked you blind, trying to explain
my ideas of it.
W. R. N. Dick, this sounds like your own self. Just the way you
used to talk to me.
Well if I am not Hodgson, he never lived.
W. R. N. But you are so clear.
Of course I am, I am drawing on all the forces possible
for strength to tell you these things.
You laughed about the ungrammatical expressions and
said, why in the world do they use bad grammar'!
W. R, N. Yes, Dick, I said that.
I went into a long explanation and attributed it to the
registering of the machine. You were rather amused
but were inclined to leave it to my better under-
standing.
W. R. N. You mean, I think, that you understood the subject better
than I and I took your explanation 1 You mean that
therefore I was inclined to accept your explanation]
I think I do. I find now difficulties such as a blind man
would experience in trying to find his hat. And I am
not wholly conscious of my own utterances because
they come out automatically, impressed upon the
machine.
W. R, N. Perfectly clear.
Yes, I am standing beside you.
W. R. N. Can you see me, Dick ?
Y^es, but I feel your presence better. I impress my
thoughts on the machine which registers them at
74 Professor William James. [part
random, and which are at times doubtless difficult to
understand. I understand so much better the modus
operandi than I did when I was in your world. Do
you remember you said you could faintly understand—
faintly understand the desire on the part of a friend
after coming to this side to communicate with his
friend on the earthly side. But why he would choose
such methods were the most perplexing things to you.
W. R. N. No, Dick, you are thinking of some one else. I never told
you that.
Yes you did in the case of the man I am talking of, who
pretended to give manifestations, and you were right
in your judgment.
W. R. N. Yes ! I think I did say it in that case. 1
While in other cases you were open and clear to my
explanations—and agreed with me, especially regarding
G. P.
W. R. N. Right ! First-rate ! That is all very characteristic.
You were a good listener always, Bill}', always. [R. H.'s
talks and mine had been rather one-sided !
—N.]
Do you remember a trip we had into the moun-
tains years ago 1 I am trying to recall. We took a
bit of clothing and spent several days together.
W. R. N. No, Dick, I never did that with you, you are thinking of
somebody else.
1
When the "choice of such methods" was first mentioned, I supposed it
referred to the notion that mediums ought to be persons of distinguished
character or abilities. I therefore disavowed it, for I have never seen any
reason for the assumption. When it was referred to the "men who pretended
to give manifestations," I doubtfully acknowledged it, supposing it referred
to the so-called "physical phenomena," especially those of Stainton Moses.
The objections upon which I used to lay most stress in my talks with H.
were (1) the astonishing ignorance often displayed with reference to subjects
which the supposed communicators must have been acquainted with ; (2) the
whole Imperator group, its historical and philosophical teachings, its supposed
identity with the similar group in the Stainton Moses case and its connection
with the seed-pearls, perfumes and other physical phenomena which Moses
professed to produce. To these objections H. could never give an answer
they are not here mentioned. —N.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 75
Wait a moment. Let me ask you if you and I did not
pass a few days together one summer.
W. R. N. No, Dick, only in Boston.
Sure? All right, let me narrate what is in my mind.
W. R. N. Right ! Go on.
I remember we were together one summer and we went to
the woods or and lay under some trees and had a
smoke and discussed several problems. Where was it,
Billy?
W. R. N. Not with me, I think, Dick, unless it was somewhere in
Boston.
I think it may have been in Boston.
W. R. N. Go on to something else, Dick. I don't remember that.
I remember when you were with me I got very much
interested in some letters you wrote me after your
return home your saying some things puzzled you
very much. [A first-rate veridical statement from
R. H. has had to be omitted here. The matter re-
ferred to had, however, been mentioned at sittings in
1895. —N.]
W. R. N. By jingo ! that is true, Dick. It was ten years ago.
Do you remember a woman named Wright ? [Name not
clearly written.]
W. R. N. No, not at this moment.
Did I not tell you about her the day we were at the
shore 1
MV. R. N. Ah, Dick, I think you did, but I do not remember it
well enough to make it a good test.
Do you remember my remark about the way in which
the name was spelled 1
W. R. N. No, I don't remember it, Dick.
Also about her giving me some very interesting things ?
76 Professor William James. [part
W. R. N. No, Dick, I do not remember it. Do you remember
telling me that day that when you got on the other
side you would make it hot for me ?
I do indeed remember it well. I said I would shake you
up—shake you up.
W. R. N. That is just the word you used Dick. [I am not now
sure the word was "shake you up," but it was some
such colloquial expression. —N.]
Yes, I did. Oh—I said, won't I shake you up when I
get over there if I go before you do ! And here I
am, but I find my memory no worse than yours in
spite of the fact that I have passed through the transi-
tion stage —state. You would be a pretty poor
philosopher if you were to forget your subject as you
seem to forget some of those little memories which I
recall, Billy. Let me ask if you remember anything
about a lady in [Chicago] to whom I referred.
W. R. N. Oh Dick, I begin to remember. About eight or nine
years ago was it, Dick 1 [Here follows the " Huldah "-
material already quoted in my Part I. of this report.
See pp. 20-26.—W. J.]
Do you remember some trouble I had with Mrs. F. . . 1
W. R. N. I have some remembrance. [I recall this, but no details.
-N]
I told you about her. Yes, Mrs. Mrs. ! I told you
about her, and you thought I did right at the time.
W. R. N. Dick, did you get any names of those relatives of mine
on your side ?
Oh yes, names on my side. Yes, I found lots of your
uncles and aunts. Your wife's also. Do not make
me any worse than I am. Do you remember my
explanation about Proctor 1
W. R. N. No.
Don't you remember my old friend?
W. R. N. No.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 77
The astronomer? .... Do you remember my little talk
about the satellites 1
W. R. N. Yes, I do.
And about the inhabitants of Mars ?
W. R. N. I do indeed, I remember very well. [This was in 1895.
-N.]
Do you remember my own talk independent of sittings,
and my talks on the subject of canals ? [R. H.'s
own interest in these things was known to the trance-
controls, by conversations he had held with them at
earlier sittings. —W. J.]
W. R. N. Yes, indeed, I remember.
This is what I am reminding you of. I heard you and
William—William discussing me, and I stood not one
inch behind you.
W. R. N. William who 1
James.
W. R. N. What did William James say ? [I recall this talk with
W. J. last week.—K]
He said he was baffled but he felt it was I talking—at
one moment—then at another he did not know what
to think.
[Perfectly true of my conversation with N. after his sitting
with Mrs. P. a week previous. —W. J.]
W. R. N. Did you hear anything else?
Yes, he said I was very secretive and careful.
W. R. N. Did you hear him say that 1
He did. He said I was, I am afraid I am.
W. R. N. I don't remember his saying so. [I remember it. —W. J.]
I tell you Billy he said so.
78 Professor William James. [part
W. R. X. Did he say anything else 1
He paid me a great compliment, [I recall this. —N.] I
fear I did not deserve it. However, I am here to prove
or disprove through life. Amen.
Eemember my explanations of luminous ether ? [A favorite
subject of discussion with him, possibly known to
Mrs. Piper.— XL]
Good bye. God bless you and your good wife. Remember
me to her. Adieu. —E. H.
Some persons seem to make much better " sitters " than
others, and Prof. Xfewbold is evidently one of the best. The
two sittings of his from which I have quoted are more
flowing and contain less waste matter, perhaps, than any others.
If the E. H. who appeared therein be only a figment of Mrs.
Piper's play-acting subconscious self (compare E. H.'s words
"I am holding on to a figment" on page 69 above), we must
credit that self with a real genius for accumulating the
appropriate in the way of items, and not getting out of the
right personal key. Not many items were certainly wrong in
these sittings, and the great majority were certainly right.
If two of the omitted communications could have been
printed, they would have greatly increased the veridical effect.
Professor Newbold gives me his own resultant impression
in the following words :
" The evidence for H.'s identity, as
for that of other communicators, seems to me very strong
indeed. It is not absolutely conclusive ; but the only alterna-
tive theory, the telepathic, seems to me to explain the facts
not as well as the spiritistic. I find it, however, absolutely
impossible to accept the necessary corollaries of the spiritistic
theory, especially those connected with the Imperator group,
and am therefore compelled to suspend judgment." 1
After Dr. Newbold's, it would seem natural to cite Dr.
Hyslop's sittings, which were six in number during the period
which this report covers. But he has himself given an account
of them, with inferences,2
so I refrain. It may suffice to say
1
Compare Newbold's previous account of his experience of the Piper-
phenomena, in the S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. XIV., pp. 6-49.
2
In the Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, 519 West
149th Street, New York, Vol. I., No?. II., III., and IV.
lviil] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 79
that Hyslop had already been converted, largely by previous
experiences with Mrs. Piper, to the spiritist theory 1
of such
phenomena, and that he held it in a form similar to that
to which Hodgson had been led, supposing namely that at the
time of communicating, the communicating spirits are themselves
in a dreamy or somnambulic state, and not in full possession
of their faculties.
2
Dr. Hyslop's sittings in the present series, although they
seem to me to contain no coercive evidence for a surviving
Hodgson, as contrasted with the field of alternatives—I doubt
if Hyslop would make any such claim for them—yet lend
themselves easily to the notion that Hodgson, in a somewhat
amnesic and confused state, was there. They pursued a train
of ideas most natural for such as Hodgson to have followed,
and they confirmed Dr. Hyslop in the theory which he had
already reached as the line of least resistance in these
matters :
—Hodgson was probably communicating as best he
might under the available conditions. He led the conversation
back to his and Hyslop's earlier experiences, recalled the
differences of opinion they had had over the proofs of Hyslop's
report on Mrs. Piper in 1901 ; alluded to a meeting which
they were to have had in New York if Hodgson had not
" passed over," and to what Hyslop wished to discuss there
reminded Hyslop of some experiments on mediums which they
had made together in earlier days, and of messages purporting
to be from II. H. which Hyslop was receiving through another
medium at present ; discussed other mediumistic persons, and
especially the aptitudes of a certain young " light " in whom
Hyslop was interested; sent a veridical message to Dr. ISTewbold
recalled a certain " cheese " of which he and Hyslop had
partaken on a unicpae occasion together ;
gave advice regarding
Hyslop's practical perplexities in the crisis of S.P.E. affairs
expressed his sympathy in the most appropriate fashion ;
etc.,
etc.—most of this in an exceedingly scanty way, to be sure,
but with such naturalness of tone, and following such
1
See his Report on Mrs. Piper in Vol. XVI. of the S.P.E. Proceedings.
2
Compare with this Mrs. Sidgwick's well-argued theory that they are not
trying to communicate at all, but that the medium in trances is able tele-
pathically to tap their minds in spots, just as she taps the minds of the
sitters. (Proceedings S.P.P., Vol. XV., pp. 16-38.)
80 Professor William James. [part
characteristic lines of association with the sitter, that the
latter's view was, as I said, only confirmed.
A reader of the records, not having Dr. Hyslop's Mental
Apperceptionsmasse to interpret them by, might fail to find
them convincing. My own feelings towards these sittings is
what it is towards all the others. The interpretation of them
will depend on that of the whole larger mass of material with
which they belong.
W. J.'s Sitting.
The evidence is so much the same sort of thing throughout,
and makes such insipid reading, that I hesitate to print more
of it in full. But I know that many critics insist on having
the largest possible amount of verbatim material on which to
base their conclusions, so I select as a specimen of the R. H.
control's utterances when he was less " strong," one of two
voice-sittings which I had with him myself (May 21st, 1906).
The reader, I fear, will find it long and tedious, but he can
skip.
(R. H. enters, saying :)
Well, well, well, well ! Well, well, well, that is here
I am. Good morning, good morning, Alice.
Mrs. W. J. Good morning, Mr. Hodgson.
I am right here. Well, well, well ! I am delighted
Hurrah! R. H. ! Give us your hand!
Hurrah, William ! God bless you. How are you 1
First rate.
Well, I am delighted to see you. Well, have you solved
those problems yet ?
Which problems do you refer to 1
Did you get my messages 1
I got some messages about your going to convert me.
Did you hear about that argument that I had ? You
asked me what I had been doing all those years, and
W. J.
W. .1.
w. J.
w. J.
xviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 81
what it amounted to? [R. H. had already sent me,
through other sitters, messages about my little faith.
W. J.J
W. J. Yes.
Well, it has amounted to this,—that I have learned by
experience that there is more truth than error in what
I have been studying.
W. J. Good
I am so delighted to see you to-day that words fail me.
W. J. Well, Hodgson, take your time and don't be nervous.
No. Well, I think I could ask the same of you ! Well,
now, tell me, —I am very much interested in what is
going on in the society, and Myers and I are also
interested in the society over here. You understand that
we have to have a medium on this side while you have
a medium on your side, and through the two we com-
municate with you.
W. J. And your medium is who ?
We have a medium on this side. It is a lady. I don't think
.she is known to you.
W. J. Y~ou don't mean Rector 1
No, not at all. It is do you remember a medium whom
we called Prudens?
W. J. Yes.
Prudens is a great help. Through Prudens we accomplish
a great deal. Speak to me, William. Ask me anything.
What I want to know first of all is about the society.
I am sorry that it could not go on.
W. J. There was nobody to take your place.
If it can't go on then it must be
W. J. Be dissolved. That is what we have concluded. There is
nobody competent to take your place. Hyslop is going
to, —well, perhaps you can find out for yourself what he
is going to do.
F
82 Professor William James. [part
I know what he is going to do, and we are all trying to help
Hyslop, and trying to make him more conservative, and
keener in understanding the necessity of being secretive.
W. J. You must help all you can. He is splendid on the interpreting
side, discussing the sittings, and so forth.
I know he is, but what a time I had with him in writing
that big report. It was awful, perfectly awful. I shall
never forget it. [Hodgson had tried to get Hyslop's
report in S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. XVI, made shorter, a
fact possibly known to the medium. —W. J.]
There is one thing that troubles me. Harry [James] asked
me about a letter which he had received [at a previous
sitting, from a certain C. B., asking whether E. H. had
tried to appear to her since his death]. I have not got
that cleared up in my mind yet. It was regarding some
one to whom I have returned since I passed over.
(A letter from a certain H 1 asking a similar question,
was here offered as an "influence;" and held on the
medium's forehead.)
I did not return to C. B. Did you get her message?
W. J. I have not got her message. Harry may have it.
I also gave a message to Mrs. C. Did you gettthat?
W. J. Either George Dorr or Harry must have got that. You
see I have not seen everything yet, having been in
California.
Oh, yes, I forgot. William, can't you see, don't you under-
stand, and don't you remember how I used to walk up
and down before that open fireplace trying to convince
you of my experiments'?
W. J. Certainly, certainly.
And you would stand with your hands in your trousers
pockets. You got very impatient with me sometimes,
and you would wonder if I was correct. I think you
are very skeptical.
lviil] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 83
W. J. Since you have been returning I am much more near to
feeling as you felt than ever before.
G-ood ! Well, that is capital.
W. J. Your "personality" is beginning to make me feel as you felt.
If you can give up to it, William, and feel the influence of
it and the reality of it, it will take away the sting of
death.
W. J. But, R. H., listen a moment. We are trying to get evidential
material as to your identity, and anything that you can
recollect in the way of facts is more important than
anything else. For instance, do you recollect a Churchill
case, Mr. Churchill, who came on from New York or
from the West with some materials, and you and I had
some discussions ? I have just had that worked up in
the laboratory. Can you remember anything of that ?
Oh, yes. I had Osier in my mind also and I was preparing
some answers for that. [Piddington on May 2nd had
told the controls that some MS. notes of a reply to Osier
had been found among Hodgson's papers. —W. J.] I
think perhaps you have heard about that, have you ?
W. J. Yes, I have heard about that.
Well, Sanger, or Zangler ? the clergyman, do you remember
him?
W. J. No, I don't remember. [Impossible to identify. —W. J.]
Don't you remember a young man whom I was going to
see 1 I think I told you about it, William, —quite sure
I did, —who was a clergyman, and who was afraid of
his condition, going into the trances. Don't you remember
that at all ? Ask Alice. Perhaps she remembers.
Mrs. J. No, I don't remember that account of the clergyman. I
think perhaps Hyslop may remember it. I remember
something about dream-cases and what we called death-
bed experiences. [Possibly the case mentioned to
Newbold, see above, p. 71.]
84 Professor William James. [part
W. J. Yes, this clergyman had had some of those, had hel
He had had some experiences in dreams. And then there
was a case in Washington that I was anxious to look up.
Do you remember my speaking anything about that'?
W. J. No, I am not so sure of that. Do you remember a
Gower case 1
Oh yes, you recall that to my mind. And do you remember
the description of the man whose finger, —there was
something peculiar about his finger 1
W. J. Yes, I do remember that. I remember that incident.
[I seemed to, at the moment, but the memory has failed to
become distinct. —W. J.l
Well, have you found anything more about that?
W. J. No, I have not. If you could recall what kind of a case
the Gower case was, it would be interesting. [For this
case, concerning which R. H. had been in correspondence,
see Miss Johnson's report in S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol.
XXL, p. 94.]
Wasn't that a case of hysteria ?
W. J. No, not hysteria. He corresponded with you and wanted
you to come and see the phenomena. Do you remember 1
I do remember a physical-manifestation case, and I remember
an aural case,—the voices came. And I think the Gower
case was physical manifestation, if I remember. [No
voices. —W. J.]
W. J. That is correct. Can you remember what the physical mani-
festations were 1
Well, I hope I will not get these mixed up in my mind,
because I have several that are passing through my
thoughts. There was one where they had the table
manifestations, and they had also some experiments in
knocking about the room after retiring. Do you remem-
ber those 1 [The table had moved without contact, but
I fail to remember any "knocking."—W. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes.
r
in.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 85
I think I had those correct in my mind, and then I think
do you remember the case where the hands appeared, as
though they were in phosphorescent light 1
J. I don't remember that case.
I have those two now just on my mind at the moment. I
think they will come to you clearly presently. Now tell
me a little bit more about the Society. That will help
me keep my thoughts clear. I think, William—are you
standing ?
J. Yes, I am standing.
Well, can't you sit?
J. Yes.
Well, sit. Let's have a nice talk.
J. The society is going to disband. Hyslop and Piddington
and George Dorr and I have agreed to that, and we have
written a circular, which we have signed, to the members,
and I don't think there will be any objection. The
American work will have to go on apart from the English,
work in some way.
W ell, then about Hyslop's society. I think he will succeed
in that. I feel very much encouraged in regard to that.
J. I certainly hope he will succeed.
I want to ask you if you have met at all Miss Gaule 1
J. Maggie Gaule? I have not met her. [A medium known
to E. H. during life, probably also known by name to
Mrs. P.—W. J.]
I am very much disappointed in some respects. I have tried
to reach her. [In 1908, Hyslop got messages from R. H.
through Miss Gaule.—W. J.] I have reached another
light and I did succeed in getting a communication
through.
J. What was your communication ?
I did not believe in her when I was in the body. I thought
she was insincere, but I believe her now and know that
86 Professor William James. [part
she has genuine light, and I gave a message recently to
a Mrs. M. in the body. I referred to my books and my
papers and several other things. Her name is Soule.
[R. H. acted as Mrs. Soule's control, and something like
incipient cross-correspondences were obtained. —W. J.]
W. J. Soule ?
A. M.R. [the stenographer] I know her.
And now, as I go through my rooms [which were still full
of R. H.'s effects] I have talked over the matters there
very well. Now let me see—tell me more about the
Gower case. Are you going to look that up 1
W. J. I stopped at on my way from California, and I saw
all the witnesses, and I think it is a good case.
I am inclined to think he is honest and I will investigate
and if possible I will give some manifestations there that
you will know that it comes from me. I will do every-
thing I can because I am so anxious, and if I cannot
prove—wait a moment—will you spell this after me ?
[Very dramatic change—as if some sudden influence had
come upon him.]
W. J. Yes.
It is Z e i v o r n [spelt out].
[W. J. pronounces each letter after it is spoken by R. H.]
Now put those letters, repeat those backwards, and I have
left that word written and I think you will find it among
my papers. It is original and nobody saw it, nobody
would understand it. [Not found there. —W. J.]
W. J. That is a password ?
Yes.
W. J. Now, Hodgson, do you remember any sealed test that you
left with Myers or me or anybody 1
I left one with Lodge.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 87
W. J. Did you leave one with me 1
Yes, I left one with you. [I myself supposed so, but have
found none.—W. J.]
W. J. Can you recall anything about that 1 It is very hard to
remember those things.
It is sealed, if I remember rightly. Now wait a moment.
That is one you will find in the office —in my rooms,
rather—and I think I left it in a book.
W. J. This one that you just spelt out ?
Yes.
W. J. Did you make that word up %
I spelt the word, made the word up and spelt it out
because I knew no one living could guess at it or hit it.
W. J. It does not mean anything in particular 1
Nothing at all.
W. J. Just a password 1
Yes. And the one I gave to you, I shall have to think
that over, William.
W. J. Think that over, Hodgson. Think it over carefully. Take
your time and see if you can get it, because it is very
important.
I shall do so, and I want to do it in a way to exclude if
possible the theory of clairvoyance. Now I want to ask
you a question, may I, while it is on my mind 1 Have
you ever asked Harry if he asked Dr. Bayley about that
charade 1 [Reference to a former sitting with H. J., Jr.]
W. J. Yes, there is an answer from Dr. Bayley, about a charade
containing the word " peacemaker." [Dr. Bayley recalls
no such charade. —W. J.]
Yes.
W. J. And that is all right.
The answer 1
88 Professor William James. [part
W. J. Yes. [I print the record as it stands—it seems incoherent,
on my part. —W. J.]
Well, about the cheese 1 Please answer me.
W. J. The cheese is all right. That is a very [The
"cheese" recalled to me another charade. —W. J.J
No, no,—I want to know if he gave it to Bayley.
W. J. Yes, that was sent to Bayley by Harry, I think, but whether
you gave it to Bayley originally, I am not sure. [R. EL
did so give it, Dr. Bayley informs me, but Mrs. Piper
says she also had heard this charade from R. H. —W. J.];
Well, I wish you would find that out. You see these things
are all going through my mind, as though there was a
panorama of things going through my vision.
W. J. Hodgson, what are you doing, apart from Mrs. Piper ?
Why, I am working with the society, William, trying to-
reach other lights, trying to communicate, trying to get-
into touch with you all.
W. J. Why can't you tell me more about the other life?
That is a part of my work. I intend to give you a better
idea of this life than has ever been given.
W. J. I hope so.
It is not a vague fantasy but a reality.
Mrs. J. Hodgson, do you live as we do, as men do 1
What does she say ?
W. J. Do you live as men do ?
Mrs. J. Do you wear clothing and live in houses'?
Oh yes, houses, but not clothing. No, that is absurd.
[Query: the clothing? or the statement made about it?
—W. J.] Just wait a moment. I am going to get out.
W. J, You will come back again ?
Yes
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control.
Eectoe. He has got to go out and get his breath.
(When R. H. comes back he recommences talking about his
passwords :)
Philanthropist—That is one of the words, but—wait a
moment—that is Lodge's. Now I remember that very
well. The other one which I have spelled—you wait a
moment—there is something troubling me regarding the
—do you remember another case 1 I want to recall it
to your mind. Do you remember a case about a young
girl, a young woman that I told you about?
W. J. Yes.
I have seen her since I came over. Yes, I think Hyslop
brought her here to me.
W. J. Yes.
Well, that is the nearest approach to a case of hysteria of
anything I know. Do you remember my telling you
about it, William 1
?
W. J. Well, I do remember a case. I don't fully identify it.
It was about a year before I passed out.
W. J. I do remember a young woman. Have you been influencing
her?
No, I tried to reach her two or three times, one or two
messages, but they did not come from me.
W. J. I don't know whether it is the same case. The one I meant
had been in an asylum.
That is the one. I tried to get the message through but I
found it was a failure. [Evidently not the person I was
thinking of.—W. J.]
[The letter from H 1 (see above, p. 82) was here again
put into Mrs. Piper's hand.]
I tell you one person, William, who has light, and that is B.
90 Professor William James. [part
VV. J. Have you been able to get near Mrs. B. 1
Yes, I gave her a communication since I passed out. You
ask her if she received anything like this :
" I have seen
the Doctor and I put my hands palms to your face facing
you." You ask her if she got anything of that kind.
[Mrs. B. informs me that she has had no direct impres-
sion from Hodgson since his death, but numerous messages
from him through mediums on the Pacific Coast. —W. J.]
W. J. How did you get this message to her 1
Appeared to her and thought she saw me. She put her
hand up. She had just retired.
W. J. What time of day was it %
Just retired.
W. J. Gone to bed ? Do you remember, Hodgson, any one by the
name of H tl
A medium ?
W. J. No, not a medium, a friend.
You mean lived in Providence 1 [The letter was from a
Mr. H 1 in England.—W. J.]
W. J. No, I don't think he lived in Providence.
Oh yes, I remember Mr. H 1 who used to live in Pro-
vidence and from whom I received a great many letters.
[Unknown, as yet, to W. J.]
W. J. Have you tried to have any communication with him?
No, I don't think I have. 1 think I shall try, though. I
have had some communications, you know, here. I have
met several people. But independently I have gone to
very few.
[The conversation then goes on about the lost ring (compare
Part I. of this report, pp. 13-18), and about the " cheese "-
charade. Then I, thinking of a certain pitfall which the
children and I had dug for Hodgson, asked :]
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 91
W. J. Do you recall any incidents about your playing with the
children up in the Adirondack^ at the Putnam camp 1
Do you remember, —what is that name, Elizabeth Putnam 1
She came in and I was sitting in a chair before the fire,
leading, and she came in and put her hands, crept up
behind me, put her hands over my eyes, and said "who
is it ?
" And do you remember what my answer was 1
W. J. Let me see if you remember it as I do.
I said, "Well, it feels like Elizabeth Putnam, but it sounds
like
'
W. J. I know who you mean. [R. H. quite startled me here
because what he said reminded me of an incident which
I well remembered. One day at breakfast little Martha
Putnam (as I recall the fact) had climbed on Hodgson's
back, sitting on his shoulders, and clasped her hands
over his eyes, saying "Who am I?" To which R. H.,
laughing, had responded: "It sounds like Martha, but
it feels like Henry Bowditch"—the said H. B. weighing
nearly 200 lbs. I find that no one but myself, of those
who probably were present, remembers this incident.
W. J.]
Do you realize how difficult that is 1
W. J. It is, evidently ;
yet you were just on the point of saying it.
Is it a man or a woman ?
A man.
W. J. Have you any message for that man now 1
Dr. —not Putnam—Dr. Bowditch !
W. J. That is it, Bowditch.
"Sounds like Dr. Bowditch."
W. J. It was not Elizabeth Putnam, but it was Charlie Putnam's
daughter.
Charlie Putnam, yes. Now do you remember that 1
92 Professor William James. [part
W. J. But what is the name of Charles Putnam's daughter?
Of whom ? Annie 1 Oh, she is the youngest. She is the
young lady. And there was a Mary—Mamie. [False
name?. —W. J.]
W. J. But you must remember Charles Putnam's daughter's name !
I have got it now in my mind. I could not think of it at
first. Well it has gone from me at the moment. Never
mind. That is less important than the thing itself.
W. J. Do you remember another thing? We played a rather
peculiar game. Possibly you may recall it. Had great
fun.
I remember playing leap-frog with the boys. Do you
remember that 1
W. J. Yes, that was frequent.
Yes, that is a very—and then do you remember how I
played bear.
W. J. Yes, bear is first-rate. I was not there, but I heard them
talking about your playing bear. I remember one
morning you and I had a very
Well, what you remember I might not remember at all.
W. J. Of course not. You played so often with them that you
may have forgotten.
Besides all that, I am trying to avoid things that are in
your mind if possible, to remind you of other incidents.
Well, let me see—-what were we playing—we were
playing—you remember at all playing marbles with the
children 1
W. J. No.
That is another game I played with them. [False.] Oht
such fun, such days as those were. You say you and
I were playing with them particularly 1
W. J. Yes, perhaps that will come to you.
That may come to me at some other time. But all those
things you ask me about the children, —well, that is
xviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 93
the first thing I can remember. That is all right so
far as it goes. Now let me see what other thing I
can tell you that no one living knows but myself.
Do you remember a place where we used to go, where
I used to go and smoke? I used to go with Billy
[my son..—W. J.] a great deal, and it was high up.
W. J. Doubtful.
Yes, do you remember that at all 1 By the way, how is
Billy ?
W. J. Billy is first-rate.
He has gone away, hasn't he 1 [Correct, but not evidential.]
W. J. Yes.
I think he is now on the right track and hope he will
keep so. Give my deepest love to him and tell him
how much I think of him and also the rest.
W. J. Yes.
[Some non-evidential matter here is omitted.]
Excuse me, it seems to me you are peculiarly dull concerning
my affairs at my rooms. I suppose Harry knows more
about them than you do.
W. J. Do you think it would help you to have the " light
taken to your room there in your old surroundings ?
Do you think you could get more influences and feel
nearer ?
Perhaps I could. I left everything so suddenly, I had so
little time to make my plans and my arrangements. I
suppose you understand that
1
?
"W. J. Yes, indeed. Would it be advisable to take the "light" to
your rooms 1
Well, I should rather come here and mention my individual
things from time to time and then take her there
later, . . . because there are many things which I wish
94 Professor William James. [part
to locate and point out and dispose of from time to
time and things I would like to mention. I wish you
would repeat to me those letters, to see if you have
got them correct.
W. J. Zei vorn.
That is right. It is written in cipher, the one word, and
written by itself, on a large sheet of paper, carefully
folded and placed in one of my books, and it is in
a book of poems I think, and I think it was Longfellow's,
and the book has a scroll up and down the back, and
the binding is green in color, and I don't think any
one living knows that but myself. [Not found.—W. J.]
W. J. Yes, are there any particular things that you would like
to have sent to Australia?
I have talked that over pretty carefully with Piddington
and I think those arrangements are already made.
W. J. Yes, that is right.
I wanted to recall, —Alice, perhaps you can help me to
recall, —what was that balcony where we used to go
and smoke ?
Mrs. J. Why, yes, it was up-stairs, the upper story of the piazza.
[If Chocorua were meant, Mrs. Piper had seen this
"balcony."—W. J.]
That is all right. That is perfectly clear. She always did
have a clear head. . . . Now I want, —William, I want
one thing. I want you to get hold of the spiritual
side of this thing and not only the physical side. I
want you to feel intuitively and instinctively the spiritual
truth, and when you do that }'ou will be happy, and
you will find that I was not idling and was not spending
my time on nonsense ; and as I thought over all, as
it came to me after I entered this life, I thought
"What folly! If I could only get hold of him!"
W. J. I wish that what you say could grow more continuous.
That would convince me. You are very much like your
old self, but you are curiously fragmentary.
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 95
Yes, but you must not expect too much from me, that I
could talk over the lines and talk as coherently as in
the body. You must not expect too much, but take
things little by little as they come and make the best
of it, and then you must put the pieces together and
make a whole out of it. Before I lose my breath, is
there any other question you want to ask me ? What
do you think of that bust, William 1 I don't quite
approve of it. I think it is all nonsense. [On March
12th Mr. Dorr had 1
told the 11. H. control that Mr.
Biela Pratt had begun to model a bust of him for the
Tavern Club.]
W. J. I do not know anything about it. I have not seen it. But
it is a natural thins; "for the Tavern Club to want of
you, they were so fond of you, all of them.
I want to know, William, what is that you are writing
about me 1
W. J. I am not writing anything about you at present.
Aren't you going to?
W. J. Perhaps so.
Can I help you out any?
W. J. Yes, I want you to help me out very much. I am going
to write about these communications of yours. I want
to study them out very carefully, evei'ything that you
say to any sitter.
Well, that is splendid. You could not have said anything
to please me more than that.
W. J. I am glad you approve of my taking it in hand.
Yes, I do. Of all persons you are the one.
W. J. I'll try to glorify you as much as I can !
Oh, I don't care about that. I would like to have the
truth known, and I would like to have you work up
these statements as proof that I am not annihilated.
9b' Professor William James. [part
W. J. Precisely so. Well, R. H., you think over that "nigger
minstrel" talk. [Compare Part I., p. 18.] If you get
the whole conversation in which that nigger-minstrel
talk was mentioned by me, it would be very good proof
that it is you talking to me. [He failed to get it.
W. J.]
Well, I shall do it. I want you to understand one thing,
that in the act of communicating it is like trying to
give a conversation over the telephone, that the things
that you want to say the most slip from you, but when
you have ceased to talk they all come back to you. You
can understand that.
W. J. I understand that they come back.
But I shall give that out to some one here, you may be
sure, and I hope to see you—this is only the beginning,
and I shall be clearer from time to time, but the
excitement of seeing you and all has been very beautiful
to me.
W. J. If you can manage to get a little more hold of the conditions
on the other side, it will be very good.
Yes, that I shall do. You must remember I have not been
over here an endless number of days 1 but I wish they
would all try as hard as I have tried to give proof of
their identity so soon after coming over.
W. J. I wish you would more and more get Rector to let you
take his place. You do all the talking and let Rector
have a rest. And it would be much better, I think, for
you to take control of the light, and for me particularly.
Yes, that is a very good suggestion, very good.
W. J. Because I want to write this up, and the time taken by
Rector is so much lost from you.
But he repeats for me very cleverly, and he understands
the management of the light. I want to speak with
Alice a moment, and their I shall have to leave you, I
suppose.
LVIII.] Report on Mrs. Piper s Hodgson-Control. 97
Mrs. J. Mr. Hodgson. I am so glad to know that you can come
at all.
Well, you were always a great help to me, you always
did see me, but poor William was blind. But we shall
wholly straighten him out and put him on the right
track. ... I am sorry to be off so soon, but I know
there are difficulties in remaining too long. They often
told me too frequent communication was not good for
any one. I understand what that means now better than
ever. I am going to look up one or two cases and put
you on the track of them, William, when I can com-
municate here, —at the same time repeat the messages
elsewhere.
W. J. That is first-rate.
I think that is one of the best things I can do. Now I
am going to skedaddle. Good bye, William. God bless
you. Give my love to the boys.
As I review this somewhat diluted sitting, the only evidential
point in it seems to me to be the anecdote about the Putnam
child (see above p. 91). The incident was very distinct in
my own memory, but seems to survive in no one else's. I
was hoping for another answer altogether, about a certain
" pitfall," namely, and this one was a surprise. Either tapping
my subconscious memory, or a surviving B. H., would be possible
explanations of it, unless it were more reasonable to assume
that some one had told the anecdote to Mrs. Piper at the
time, and that her memory was now reproducing it. Obviously
the reader's solution will depend on his sense of " dramatic
probability," and that will differ with the line of his previous
experiences. For myself, considering the possibilities of leakage,
impossible to trace, in the whole case, I cannot be positively
sure that Mrs. Piper's knowledge of this anecdote was super-
normal at all. The rest of the sitting, although quite, compatible
with the spiritual explanation, seems to me to have but little
evidential force.
The same is true of the second sitting which I had a
fortnight later. Much of it went over the same matters, with
no better results. I vainly tried to make Hodgson remember
G
98 Professor William James. [part
a certain article he had written for Mind in 1885, and to
give the name of Thomas Brown, whom he had praised there.
Neither could he remember anything about the American
Society for Psychical Research, as he found it on arriving in
this country. He rightly mentioned his brown dress-suit and
his broad-toed boots when questioned about his costume at
that time, but these facts were known to Mrs. Piper. He
named a " Grenier " whom my son should have met at Paris,
but whom we could not identify. He insisted much on my
having said of a certain lady " God bless the roof that covers
her." I trust I may have said this of many ladies, but
E. H. could lead me to no identification.
The only queer thing that happened at this sitting was
the following incident. A lady had sent me a pair of gloves
as an " influence " to elicit, if possible, a message from her
husband, who had recently committed suicide. I put the gloves
into Mrs. Piper's hand, naturally without a word of information
about the case, when " Hodgson," who had been speaking,
said, with a rather startling change of his voice into a serious
and confidential tone, that he had just seen the father (known
to us both in life) of a young man who a few years before
had made away with himself. " I never knew it till I came
over here. I think they kept it very quiet, but it is true,
and it hastened the father's coming." The apparent suggestion
of a suicide, even though it were another one, by the gloves,
and the instantaneous change of tone in the communicator,
forcibly suggested to me the notion that the gloves were
shedding an influence of the kind called " psychometric." The
facts given by E. H. about the suicide were veridical ;
but,
with the possibilities of leakage in the case, they cannot
count in any way as evidential.
After middling or poor sittings like these of my own, it
seems hardly worth while to quote a bad one, to show the
full range of the phenomenon. Were I to do so, an appropriate
one for the purpose would be that of Miss Anne Putnam.
There is no doubt that certain persons are good " sitters
naturally, while others seem to impede the telepathic flow.
On certain days, also, communication may be less free.
Hodgson had sent repeated messages to the Putnams to come
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 99
and talk with him, and he had been so extremely intimate a
member of their family group, that the best results might
have been expected. Miss Putnam's sitting, but for one item
(see below, p. 114), was nevertheless extremely poor; and Dr.
James Putnam's was hardly to be called good, although he was
introduced to Mrs. Piper by name. The sitter's difficulty in
reading the written record may perhaps account for R. H.'s
lack of fluency in this latter case. There was one apparently
supernormal item which unfortunately I must omit.
I will end my specimens by some extracts from two sittings
of Miss M. Bergman [pseudonym]. Miss Bergman had been
in previous years an excellent sitter, and was known by name
to Mrs. Piper. She dwelt in another state, and her social
connections were not in Massachusetts. At her first visit,
December 31st, 1907, the communications were in writing and
she had much difficulty in deciphering them. At the second
sitting, January 1st, 1908, the voice was used and things ran
much more smoothly.
At the first sitting E. H. quickly appeared, spoke of having
seen two brothers of the sitter in the spirit-world (names
known to trance-personalities, and non-evidential), made a
wrong statement about Christmas at the cemetery, and then,
being asked to recall his meetings with Miss Bergman on
earth, said
I will. Do you remember one evening when I came to
the hotel where you were staying aud I sat and told
you of my experiences till it got very late and I asked
you if you would not [illegible] I told you so very
many jokes, you and Miss Pope were convulsed with
laughter over it. [Correct, Hotel Bellevue, Boston,
March 1905.—M. B.]
After a while, Hodgson reappears, saying
Do you remember my telling you about my German friends 1
Miss B. No.
Perhaps Miss Pope remembers.
[I found later that Miss Pope well remembered Dr. Hodg-
son's telling about his "German friends" and that it was
100 Professor William James. [part
that which " convulsed us with laughter " the evening-
he had stayed so late when calling at our hotel. At
this point I had become so discouraged by the great
difficulty of reading the writing and the confusion in
making things clear that I felt very indifferent and
inert in mind.—M. B.]
Bosh.
Miss B. What do you mean by that 1
You understand well.
Miss B. Bosh ?
Yes, I say bosh. BOSH BOSH
Miss B. What do you mean by that ?
Oh I say it is all bosh.
Miss B. What is bosh 1
Why the way you understand. It is simply awful.
Miss B. That sounds like you, Dr. Hodgson.
I could shake you.
Miss B. How can I do better ?
Put all your wits to it, you have plenty of them.
Miss B. I will do my best. Go on.
Do. Do you remember I used to chaff you.
Miss B. Indeed I do.
Well I am still chaffing you a bit just for recognition.
Miss B. It helps.
Amen. Now you are waking up a bit.
Miss B. I am.
Capital. So am I. Don't you remember I told you I
would show you how to manage if I ever came over
before you did.
LVIII.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 101
Miss B. Indeed I do. [Sitter had often heard Dr. Hodgson say
this.] 1
Well now I am trying to show you. I used to scold you
right and left and I shall have to keep it up, I think,
unless you do better.
Miss B. I deserve it.
If you do not who does 1
Miss B. You are your old self.
Oh I am the [two words not deciphered] I was. You'll
find it out before I finish.
Miss B. Have you a message for Theo [Miss Theodate Pope] 1
Yes indeed give her my love and tell her I am not going
to forsake her. I do not think she has been keeping
straight to the mark.
Miss B. What do you mean by that'!
I think she has been getting a little mixed up in her
thoughts and ideas of us over here. I am the same
old sixpence and I wish she were the same. I want
to see her very much.
[" Theo " had had no sitting for a long time, her interest
being lessened by the circumstance that records of
several sittings had not been kept systematically, as
before Dr. Hodgson's death. At this point the hand
wrote comments relating to circumstances which had
arisen in Theo's life since Dr. Hodgson's death. These
comments were singularly appropriate. —M. B.]
At the second sitting, when 11. H. appeared, the voice began
speaking very rapidly and heartily.
Well, well, well, this is Miss Bergman ; hullo ! I felt as
though I could shake you yesterday.
1
The' bracketed comments in the third person are Ly Miss Bergman
herself.
102 Professor William James. [part
Miss B. Well, I was pretty stupid. I think we can do better to-day.
Please repeat some of the messages you wrote and left
sealed to be opened after your death.
One message I gave to Will. If I remember correctly it
was " there is no death."
Miss B. Who is Will 1
Will James.
Miss B. Are you sure you are now giving this quotation correctly
as you wrote it?
Of course I am. [There followed an outburst spoken so
rapidly that the sitter could not get it down, declaring
that the speaker had not lost his memory any more
than had the sitter, etc.]
Miss B. Did you leave other messages ?
Yes, another. "Out of life"—how did I quote it
—"Out of
life, into life eternal." ... I know positively what I
wrote. I have promised Piddington to repeat through
Mrs. Verrall all the messages that I give through this
light. Every message given at this light must be repeated
through Mrs. Verrall before any one opens any of my
sealed messages. Mrs. Verrall is the clearest light except
this which I have found. Moreover she has a beautiful
character and is perfectly honest. That is saying a great
deal. [The reader will notice that Mis. Piper had been
in England and returned, at the date of the sittings with
Miss Bergman. —W. J.] Do you remember my description
of luminiferous ether, and of my conception of what this
life was like 1 I have found it was not an erroneous
imagination.
[The above words were spoken with great animation and
interest. The sitter, although remembering Dr. Hodgson's
description of "luminiferous ether," felt that she was not
qualified to enter into a conversation of this character and
began to say something else. The voice interrupted her :]
It is never the way to get the best results by peppering
with questions. Intelligences come with minds filled and
questions often put everything out of their thought. I
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 103
am now going to give you a test. Mention it to no one,
not even to Theo. Write down, seal and give to Alice
or to William.
[Directions here followed regarding such a test. After these
directions the voice spontaneously took up another
subject.]
Your school was—[correct name given], was it not 1 [Already
known to controls, but probably not to Mrs. Piper when
awake.] You are changing, your brother tells me, and he
is very pleased. He thinks you are going to broaden out
and do a better work. He is very glad. Do not under-
take too much. Make use of assistance in the work.
Miss B. Where were your lodgings in Boston 1
Well, now, that has brought back to my mind Boston—.
Certainly —there were some doctors in my building
George Street —no —not George —Charles Street —I—
believe. Now let me see, Charles Street. Up three
flights, I think I was on the top. [Correct, but known
to Mrs. Piper.—W. J.]
Miss B. Do you know when I was at your lodgings ?
You were there 1 Didn't we have tea together ? [False.]
Miss B. No.
Did you come and read papers ?
Miss B. No.
Did you go there after I passed out
1
?
Miss B. Yes. I went to get some articles belonging to you, and
did them up in rubber cloth.
Capital, that is good. Lodge and Piddington consider it good
when I can't remember what did not happen ! What was
the name of that girl who used to work in my office 1
Miss B. I do not remember.
Edmund—Edwards—I am thinking of her going to my rooms
to read papers. [Her name was Edmunds, known to the
medium.—W. J.]
104 Professor William James. [part
Now I want to ask you if you remember Australia, remember
my riding horseback 1 Remember my telling you of
riding through the park in the early morning with the
dew on the grass and how beautiful it was.
Miss B. Yes, yes, I remember that very well. That is fine.
I am Richard Hodgson. / am he. I am telling you what
I remember. I told you, too, about my preaching. I
believed I was in the wrong and I stopped. It hurt
some of my people to have me.
Miss B. Tell me about your riding.
I remember telling you about my dismounting and sitting
and drinking in the beauty of the morning.
Miss B. Tell me any experiences that befell you while riding.
Oh, I told you about the experience with the fiery horse.
You remember he dismounted me. It was the first
experience I had in seeing stars. I lost consciousness.
I experienced passing into this life. I remember my
being unconscious and recovering consciousness. I re-
member telling you this at the hotel.
[Sitter's mind was filled here with recollections of how Dr..
Hodgson had once told her all this when talking with
her at the Parker House in Boston, in 1 904. He had
related just this experience and had said that when he
recovered consciousness after being unconscious for some
time, it seemed to him he had been in a spiritual universe.
He also told her at that time of his having given testimony
in Methodist meeting as a lad in his teens, and after-
wards giving it up because he became skeptical in matters
of faith. This, he said, had troubled some of his kinsfolk.
—M. B.]
Miss B. What did you use to order for luncheon when you lunched
with us at the hotel 1
Oh, I have forgotten all about eating—m—m—I was very
fond of protose.
[The sitter did not have " protose " in mind, but remembers
Dr. Hodgson sometimes askiug the waiter for one of the
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 105
prepared breakfast foods, but does not recall its name.
—M. B.]
When I found the light it looked like a tremendous window,
open window. The canopy —do you remember how they
used to talk about the canopy 1 It is an ethereal veil.
If your spiritual eyes were open you could see through
this veil and see me here talking to you perfectly.
[The sitter did not care to talk about this, although she
remembered perfectly Dr. Hodgson's telling her "how
they talked about the canopy," so she asked a question
referring to the intimate personal affairs of one of her
friends. The replies showed a strange knowledge of the
circumstances known only to the sitter and her friend,
and were entirely a propos. The voice then went on
speaking, and burst out with what follows, in a tone of
mingled indignation and amusement:]
Will thinks I ought to walk into the room bodily and shake
hands with him. I heard him say " Hodgson isn't so
much of a power on the other side." What does he
think a man in the ethereal body is going to do with a
man in the physical body 1 [Seems to show some super-
normal knowledge of the state of my mind.—W. J.]
Miss B. To whom did you speak first from that world?
Theodate, yes, Theodate, she was the one to whom I first
spoke. [Correct.]
[The sitter now asked to talk with another spirit, and reply
was made that R. H. would continue talking until he
came. E. H. did this by again referring to the accident
in the park. He spoke of being seated when he first
told us of the incident, and of getting up and walking
around the room as he talked. He said it chanced that
this incident had been told to few people, and again
dwelt upon having seen stars after falling, having been
unconscious, having had visions while unconscious, as if
the spirit had left the body and passed into another
world. All of this corresponded exactly with fact. Dr.
Hodgson had commenced the story seated, and had risen
and walked about as he talked. —M. B.]
106 Professor William James. [part
The accurate knowledge thus displayed of E. H.'s conversa-
tions at the hotels in Boston where the ladies stayed, seems
to me one of the most evidential items in the whole series.
It is improbable that such unimportant conversations should
have been reported by the living E. H. to Mrs. Piper, either
awake or when in trance with other sitters ; and to my mind
the only plausible explanation is supernormal. Either it spells
'
spirit-return,' or telepathic reading of the sitter's mind by
the medium in trance.
I now pass to E. H.'s
Australian Eecollections.
E. H. has sent many messages, both of affection and for test
purposes, to his sister Annie in Australia. Mrs. M., Mr.
Piddington, my wife, myself, Mr. Dorr, Miss Pope, Miss Hillard,
all received such messages, which were duly transmitted to
the sister, on whose replies what follows is based. Some of
these messages were too general to serve as good tests {e.g. " Do
you remember my reading Fenimore Cooper ?
") ; some had
been spoken of at previous trances (e.g. " Cousin Fred Hyde,"
" Q," " fly-the-garter," etc. Compare report of Hodgson's own
sittings in S.P.E. Proceedings. Vol. VIII., pp. 60-67); some
awoke no corresponding memory in Miss Hodgson. There
are too many of them to quote in full, so I will go rapidly
over the more significant ones, taking them in their time-order.
Melbourne ; Latrobe Street ; bush in yetrcl with red berries.
[Correct, as to town, street, and bush, berries not recalled by
Miss H. Had E. H. ever mentioned Latrobe Street and bush
to Mrs. Piper ?—of course she knew of Melbourne.]
Charley Roberts (or Eobertson) at the University. [Not
recalled. There was a Eoberts at E. H.'s school.]
Little shed where boys used to play. [Correct.]
Sister Rebecca. [Known in previous trances.]
Plums in back-ya.rd. [False ?]
R. H., ten years old, sat with knees crossed at church, and his
mother made him sit straight. Sat on his hat to keep other boys
from getting it. A man named Hurley made him stop. [Pro-
bably untrue.]
Sister Annie caught him reading in bed, and put out the light.
[Not remembered.]
Riding horseback. [Correct.]
lviil] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 107
Holidays spent at the Hydes'. [Correct.]
Kendall. [Name not remembered.]
Great plates of peas reused in our garden. [Not particularly
recalled.]
Played Jly-the-gartcr with Tom [his brother], Jack Munroe, and
Roberts. [No reply from Miss Hodgson about Jack Munroe—
the rest true.]
Feither's mines einel losses. [Correct.]
Description of paterncd house. [Wrong.]
Sister used to teach him. [False.]
Father nervous over children's noise. Motlier used to say "Let
them enjoy themselves." [Not remembered.]
Sister helped him to escape punishments. [Possibly, when very
young.]
Read Fenimore Cooper. [Possibly true.]
Sunday-school poem abotit stars. [R. H. wrote juvenile poems
—one about " stars " not remembered.]
The account to Miss Bergman of E. H. being thrown from
his horse we have already seen (above, p. 104). Miss Annie
Hodgson writes of the whole collection of messages sent to
her :
" To my mind there is nothing striking in any of the
statements." She propounded in turn three test-questions of
her own to which no answer was forthcoming ; and E. H.,
questioned by a sitter, couldn't remember the name of his
schoolmaster in Melbourne. In interpreting responsibly these
Australian messages, tapping the mind of the sitters and normal
acquaintance with the facts on Mrs. Piper's part 1
must probably
]
I wrote to Mrs. Piper for the names of H.'s Australian relatives. Here is
her answer, which I take to be sincere
"Boston, Jan. 11, 1909. Dear Mr. James, —In replying to your letter of
this morning I will say I am very sorry I cannot help you in finding Dr.
Hodgson's relatives in Australia, as I do not know any of them or anything
about them, except that he had one sister whose Christian name was Annie,
and this was unknown to me until some time after Dr. Hodgson's death.
Mrs. [Lyman] might be able to tell you, as it was she who told me. She had
some photographs of Dr. H. which I admired, and she said she would give me
one later, but those she had she was going to send to his sister Annie in
Australia. I was struck by the familiarity with which she used the name
and concluded that she must have known her. Dr. Hodgson never talked with
me about his relatives or anybody else's ; on the contrary he most carefully
avoided all such subjects when talking with me. I haven't the slightest idea
who 'Q.' was, I have never heard the name so far as I am aware.
"I am sure my daughters do not know any more than I do about Dr. Hodgson's
family. —I am very sincerely yours, L. E. Piper."
108 Professor William James. [part
be excluded as explanations. If a naturalistic interpretation
were insisted on, fictitious construction of incidents probable in
any boyhood, and accidental coincidence of a certain number
of these with fact, would have to be chiefly relied upon.
Against fictitious construction is the fact that almost none of
the names that had figured in Hodgson's own sittings in 1887
and 1888 (S.P.E. Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 60-67) were used
for reproduction. " Enid," " Ellen," " Eric," were added rightly ;
and the three names of " Q." (Hodgson had apparently given
only the first one to Phinuit—see loc. cit., p. 60) slipped out
in full, as it were inadvertently, on May 29th, 1906, Hodgson
insisting at the same time that her identity must never be
revealed to the outside world. The possibility that Hodgson
had given " Q.'s " entire name to later controls than Phinuit
cannot, however, be eliminated.
On the whole this series baffles me as much as the rest.
It may be spirit-return ! it may be something else ! Leaks of
various sorts are so probable that no sharp conclusion can be
drawn.
I think that by this time the reader has enough documentary
material to gain an adequate impression of the case. Additional
citations of sittings would introduce no new factors of solution.
The entire lot of reports, read verbatim, would, it is true, give
a greater relative impression of hesitation, repetition, and boggling
generally ; and the " rigorously scientific " mind would of course
rejoice to find its own explanatory category, " Bosh," greatly
confirmed thereby. But the more serious critic of the records
will hold his judgment in suspense ;
or, if he inclines to the
spiritistic solution, it will be because an acquaintance with the
phenomenon on a much larger scale has altered the balance
of presumptions in his mind, and because spirit-return has
come to seem no impermissible thing to his sense of the
natural dramatic probabilities.
Before indulging in some final reflections of my own on
Nature's possibilities, I will cite a few additional evidential
points. I will print them in no order, numbering them as
they occur.
(1) Eirst of all, several instances of knowledge that was
veridical and seemed unquestionably supernormal. These were
lviil] Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. 109
confidential remarks, some of which naturally won't bear quota-
tion. One of them, plausible after the fact, could hardly have
been thought of by any one before it. Another would, I think,
hardly have been constructed by Mrs. Piper. A third was to
the effect that E. H. thought now differently about a certain
lady—she was less " selfish " than he had called her in a
certain private conversation of which he reminded the sitter.
(2) Again, there was intense solicitude shown about keeping
the records of a certain former sitter from publicity. It
sounded very natural and Hodgsonian, but the trance-Mrs.
Piper might also have deemed it necessary.
(3) The following incident belongs to my wife's and Miss
Putnam's sitting of June 12th, 1906 :—Mrs. J. said: "Do
you remember what happened in our library one night when
you were arguing with Margie [Mrs. J.'s sister] ?
"—" I had
hardly said '
remember '," she notes, " in asking this question,
when the medium's arm was stretched out and the fist shaken
threateningly," then these words came
R. H. Yes, I did this in her face. I couldn't help it. She was so
impossible to move. It was wrong of me, but I couldn't
help it.
[I myself well remember this fist-shaking incident, and how
we others laughed over it after Hodgson had taken his leave.
What had made him so angry was my sister-in-law's defence
of some slate-writing she had seen in California.—W. J.]
1
1
Prima facie, the following incident also sounds evidential:
R. H. Ask Margie if she remembers chaffing me about sitting up late to
entertain people.
This happened, as I well remember, at Chocorua, but at this distance of
time it is impossible to be sure whether it was not on the occasion when
Hodgson and Mrs. Piper were there as visitors together. The evidence is
therefore "leaky."
Another case of leaky evidence is the following, which prima facie seems
striking enough :
In Hodgson's rooms a quantity of MS. was found, in a cipher probably
invented by himself. In the sitting of Jan. 23rd, this cipher was spontaneously
mentioned by the control :
R. H. Is this the Piper-case ? the Piper phenomenon ? . . . There are some
private records which I should not wish to have handled. Let
George and Piddington go through them and return them. The
110 Professor William James. [part
(4) At a written sitting at which I was present (July 29th,
1907) the following came:
You seem to think I have lost my equilibrium. Nothing of
the sort.
W. J. You've lost your handwriting, gone from bad to worse.
I never had any to lose.
Mrs. M. It was a perfectly beautiful handwriting [ironical].
Ahem ! Ahem ! William, do you remember my writing
you a long letter once when you were ill ? You had
to get Margaret [my daughter—W. J.] to help you read
it and you wrote me it was detestable writing and you
hoped I would try and write plainer to a friend who-
was ill, next time. How I laughed over that, but I was
really sorry to make you wade through it. Ask Mar-
garet if she remembers it. [Perfectly—it was in London.
—M. M. J.]
(5) Another item which seems to mean either telepathy or
survival of E. H., came out at a sitting of Miss Pope's on
Feb. 7th, 1906.
I am not going to make a botch of anything if I can help
it. Not I. Do you remember my telling you what I
would do if I got over here first.
Miss P. You said several things about it.
I said if I couldn't do better than some of them I was
mistaken. I said some of them were awful. Eemember ?
And if I based my opinion on what they tried to give
I should expect to be said to be in the trick. Remember?
Miss P. Of course I remember.
cipher—let Harry and George take care of them. That was my
cipher and no one living can read it. I shall explain it later.
[He never has explained it, though it was spoken of later several
times.]
I think it probable here that a question about the cipher from the sitter,
preceding the control's reference to it, has been accidentally omitted from
the record. If so, there is nothing remarkable in the incident. The record
was not stenographic, and neither my wife nor the son who took the notes,
is now confident that the cjuestion was not asked.
lviii.] Re-port on Mrs. Piper s Hodgson-Control. 1 1
Do you remember a story I told you about my old
friend Sidgwick 1 Don't you remember how I imitated
him 1
Miss P. Yes, what word did you say about Sidgwick % [I had not
deciphered the word "imitated."—T. P.]
If I believed in it they would say I was in the trick.
[Still not understanding, T. P. said :]
Miss P. What about Sidgwick?
I imitated him.
Miss P. What did you do 1
I said s-s-s-should-be i-n th-e t-r-i-c-k.
Miss P. I remember perfectly, that's fine.
No one living could know this but yourself and Mary Bergman.
[It was most interesting to see the hand write these words
to imitate stuttering, and then for the first time it
flashed over me what he had some time ago told Mary
and me about Sidgwick, imitating at the same time
Sidgwick's stammer :
" H-Hodgson, if you b-b-believe in
it, you'll b-be said to be in the t-trick." I cannot
quote the exact words, but this is very nearly right.
Sidgwick referred to Hodgson's belief that he was actually
communicating, through Mrs. Piper, with spirits. He
meant that people not only would not believe what
Hodgson gave as evidence, but would think he was in
collusion with Mrs. Piper. —T. P.]
(6) At a sitting of Miss Pope's and mine, Oct. 24th, 1906,
E. H. said of Miss P.
—" She goes on and puts on bays and
piazzas, changes her piazzas, her house, makes it all over
again." As this was literally true, and as no one in Boston
could well have known about it, it seemed like mind-reading.
[E. H.'s saying is possibly explained, however, by a previous
sitting (April 16 th) of Miss Pope's, in which another of
Mrs. Piper's controls had already of his own accord made
the same veridical remark, so that the fact had got, however
inexplicably, into the trance-consciousness, and could be used
by the controls indiscriminately.]
112 Professor William James. [part
(7) On Jan. 30, 1906, Mrs. M. had a sitting. Mrs. M.
said
Do you remember our last talk together, at N., and how,
in coming home we talked about the work 1
(R. H.) Yes, yes.
Mks. M. And I said if we had a hundred thousand dollars
Buying Billy !
Mrs. M. Yes, Dick, that was it
—" buying Billy."
Buying only Billy 1
Mrs. M. Oh no—I wanted Schiller too. How well you remember
Mrs. M., before E. H.'s death, had had dreams of extending
the American Branch's operations by getting an endowment,
and possibly inducing Prof. Newbold (Billy) and Dr. Schiller to
co-operate in work. She naturally regards this veridical recall,
by the control, of a private conversation she had had with
Hodgson as very evidential of his survival.
(8) To the same sitter, on a later occasion (March 5th,
1906), the control showed veridical knowledge of R. H.'s pipes,
of which two had been presents from herself. She asks him
at this sitting about the disposal of some of his effects. He
mentions books and photographs in a general way, then says
I want Tom [his brother] to have my pipes, all except
any that nry friends wish.
Mrs. M. Do you remember any special ones 1
Yes, I—the one you— [The hand points to me, etc.-
Mrs. M.]
Mrs. M. ^Vhich 1
Meerschaum. [I gave R. H. a meerschaum pipe some years
ago.—M.]
Mrs. M. You do remember ! Give it to any one you would best
like to.
.... I want Billy James to have it. Will you give it to
him % Do you remember, etc. 1
lviil] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 113
Mrs. M. Do you remember any other special pipe ?
You mean with a long stem? Certainly. What about it?
Mrs. M. Can you recall anything special about it 1
What? You mean the one you gave me long ago, some
time ago, not the recent one ?
Mrs. M. The last one I gave you.
Last season, last season, yes.
Mrs. M. A year or two ago, I think it was.
I recall it well. You gave me what I call a briar pipe. [A
number of years ago I gave R. H. a briar-root pipe,
with rather a long stem, bound round the bowl with
silver, but this was not the one of which I was
thinking. —M.]
Mrs. M. The one I mean was an odd-looking pipe.
I know it well, a big large bowl.
Mrs. M. Wasn't that the meerschaum?
Yes, Billy is to have it. The face one I want Tom to have.
I want my brother Tom to have—face on it. The whole
thing was a face. I mean the pipe bowl.
[I had seen such a pipe, the whole thing a face, at the
Charles Street rooms a short time before. I never
remember seeing Mr. Hodgson use it. The pipe of
which I was thinking was a carved Swiss pipe which
he evidently does not remember. —M.]
(9) Among my own friends in the Harvard faculty who
had " passed over " the most intimate was F. J. Child.
Hodgson during life had never met Professor Child. It looks
to me like a supernormal reading of my own mental states (for I
had often said that the best argument I knew for an immortal
life was the existence of a man who deserved one as well
as Child did) that a message, to me about him should have
been spontaneously produced by the E. H. control. I had
assuredly never mentioned C. to Mrs. Piper, had never before
H
114 Professor William James. [part
had a message from his spirit, and if I had expressed my
feelings about him to the living E. H., that would make the
matter only more evidential.
The message through E. H. came to Miss Bobbins, June
6th, 1906.
There is a man named Child passed out suddenly, wants to
send his love to William and his wife in the body.
Miss R. Child's wife ?
Yes, in the body. He says ... I hope L. will understand
what I mean. I [i.e. E. H.] don't know who L. is.
[L. is the initial of the Christian name of Professor
Child's widow.—W. J.]
(10) Miss Putnam had been consulted about the disposition
of certain matters left undone by Hodgson at the date of his
death. At her sitting, much later, these words came out. I
copy the record as it stands
R. H. Did you get my Christmas present 1 [A calendar addressed
by him to me before his death. —A. C. P.] I heard
you in the body say you didn't want them sent. [Mr.
Hodgson had left some Christmas cards addressed, but
unenclosed. I had expressed unwillingness to mail them
unenveloped. —A. C. P.]
(11) Mrs. M., on March 30th, placed a volume in manu-
script in the medium's hands. E. H. immediately wrote
Well, well. Isn't that the book I lent you 1
Mrs. M. Yes. You loaned it to me at C .
I remember, but you have it still
Mrs. M. I returned it to you.
Yes, but isn't it the one I loaned you 1 And the poems I
used to love so well, I recall. [The book contained
poems copied or composed by Hodgson, and after having
been returned to him ere he died, had been taken from
among his effects and brought to the sitting by Mrs. M.]
lviil] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 115
These eleven incidents sound more like deliberate truth-
telling, whoever the truth-teller be, than like lucky flukes. On
the whole they make on me the impression of being super-
normal. I confess that I should at this moment much like
to know (although I have no means of knowing) just how
all the documents I am exhibiting in this report will strike
readers who are either novices in the field, or who consider
the subject in general to be pure " rot " or " bosh." It seems
to me not impossible that a bosh-philosopher here or there may
get a dramatic impression of there being something genuine
behind it all. Most of those who remain faithful to the " bosh "-
interpretation would, however, find plenty of comfort if they had
the entire mass of records given them to read. Not that I
have left things out (I certainly have tried not to!) that
would, if printed, discredit the detail of what I cite, but I have
left out, by not citing the whole mass of records, so much
mere mannerism, so much repetition, hesitation, irrelevance,
unintelligibility, so much obvious groping and fishing and
plausible covering up of false tracks, so much false pretension
to power, and real obedience to suggestion, that the stream of
veridicality that runs throughout the whole gets lost as it
were in a marsh of feebleness, and the total dramatic effect
on the mind may be little more than the word " humbug."
The really significant items disappear in the total bulk.
" Passwords," for example, and sealed messages are given in
abundance, but can't be found. (I omit these here, as some
of them may prove veridical later.) Preposterous Latin sen-
tences are written, e.g. " Rebus merica este fecrum "
—or what
reads like that (April 4th, 1906). Poetry gushes out, but how
can one be sure that Mrs. Piper never knew it ? The weak
talk of the Imperator-band about time is reproduced, as where
E. H. pretends that he no longer knows what " seven minutes
"
mean (May 14th, 1906). Names asked for can't be given,
etc., etc.
1
All this mass of diluting material, which can't be
reproduced in abridgment, has its inevitable dramatic effect
1
For instance, on July 2nd, the sitter asks R. H. to name some of his
cronies at the Tavern Club. Hodgson gives six names, only five of which
belonged to the Tavern Club, and those Ave were known to the controls
already. None of them, I believe, were those asked for, namely, "names of
the men he used to play pool with or go swimming with at Nantasket." Yet,
as the sitter (Mr. Dorr) writes, "He failed to realize his failure."
116 Professor William James. [part
and if one tends to hate the whole phenomenon anyhow (as I
confess that I myself sometimes do) one's judicial verdict
inclines accordingly.
Nevertheless, I have to confess also that the more familiar I
have become with the records, the less relative significance for
my mind has all this diluting material tended to assume. The
active cause of the communications is on any hypothesis a will
of some kind, be it the will of E. H.'s spirit, of lower super-
natural intelligences, or of Mrs. Piper's subliminal ; and although
some of the rubbish may be deliberately willed (certain hesita-
tions, misspellings, etc., in the hope that the sitter may give
a clue, or certain repetitions, in order to gain time) yet the
major part of it is suggestive of something quite different—as
if a will were there, but a will to say something which the
machinery fails to bring through. Dramatically, most of this
" bosh " is more suggestive to me of dreaminess and mind-
wandering than it is of humbug. Why should a "will to deceive
"
prefer to give incorrect names so often, if it can give the true
ones to which the incorrect ones so frequently approximate as
to suggest that they are meant ? True names impress the sitter
vastly more. Why should it so multiply false " passwords
"
(" Zeivorn," for example, above, p. 86) and stick to them?
It looks to me more like aiming at something definite, and
failing of the goal. Sometimes the control gives a message
to a distant person quite suddenly, as if for some reason a
resistance momentarily gave way and let pass a definite desire
to give such a message. Thus on October 1 7th, "Give my
love to Carl Putnam," a name which neither Mrs. Piper nor
the sitter knew, and which popped in quite irrelevantly to
what preceded or followed. A definite will is also suggested
when P. H. sends a message to James Putnam about his
" watch stopping." He sends it through several sitters and
sticks to it in the face of final denial, as if the phrase covered,
however erroneously, some distinct " intention to recall," which
ought not to be renounced.
That a " will to personate " is a factor in the Piper-pheno-
menon, I fully believe, and I believe with unshakeable firmness
that this will is able to draw on supernormal sources of infor-
mation. It can " tap," possibly the sitter's memories, possibly
those of distant human beings, possibly some cosmic reservoir in
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 117
which the memories of earth are stored, whether in the shape
of " spirits " or not. If this were the only will concerned
in the performance, the phenomenon would be humbug pure
and simple, and the minds tapped telepathieally in it would
play an entirely passive role —that is, the telepathic data would
be fished out by the personating will, not forced upon it by
desires to communicate, acting externally to itself.
But it is possible to complicate the hypothesis. Extraneous
" wills to communicate " may contribute to the results as well
as a " will to personate," and the two kinds of will may
be distinct in entity, though capable of helping each other
out. The will to communicate, in our present instance, would
be, on the pirinia facie view of it, the will of Hodgson's sur-
viving spirit ;
and a natural way of representing the process
would be to suppose the spirit to have found that by pressing,
so to speak, against " the light," it can make fragmentary
gleams and flashes of what it wishes to say mix with the
rubbish of the trance-talk on this side. The two wills might
thus strike up a sort of partnership and reinforce each other.
It might even be that the " will to personate " would be
comparatively inert unless it were aroused to activity by the
other will. We might imagine the relation to be analogous
to that of two physical bodies, from neither of which, when
alone, mechanical, thermal, or electrical activity can proceed,
but if the other body be present, and show a difference of
" potential," action starts \ip and goes on apace.
Conceptions such as these seem to connect in schematic
form the various elements in the case. Its essential factors
are clone justice to ; and, by changing the relative amounts
in which the rubbish-making and the truth-telling wills con-
tribute to the resultant, we can draw up a table in which
every type of manifestation, from silly planchet-writing up
to Eector's best utterances, finds its proper place. Personally,
I must say that, although I have to confess that no crucial
proof of the presence of the " will to communicate " seems to
me yielded by the Hodgson-control taken alone, and in the
sittings to which I have had access, yet the total effect in
the way of dramatic probability of the whole mass of similar
phenomena on my mind, is to make me believe that a
" will to communicate " is in some shape there. I cannot
118 Professor William James. [part
demonstrate it, but practically I am inclined to " go in " for
it, to bet on it and take the risks.
The question then presents itself : In what shape is it
most reasonable to suppose that the will thus postulated is
actually there ? And here again there are various pneuma-
tological possibilities, which must be considered first in abstract
form. Thus the will to communicate may come either from
permanent entities, or from an entity that arises for the
occasion. R. H.'s spirit would be a permanent entity ; and
inferior parasitic spirits (' daimons,' elementals, or whatever their
traditional names might be) would be permanent entities. An
improvised entity might be a limited process of consciousness
arising in the cosmic reservoir of earth's memories, when
certain conditions favoring systematized activity in particular
tracts thereof were fulfilled. The conditions in that case might
be conceived after the analogy of what happens when two
poles of different potential are created in a mass of matter,
and cause a current of electricity, or what not, to pass
through an intervening tract of space until then the seat
of rest.
To consider the case of permanent entities first, there is no
a priori reason why human spirits and other spiritual beings
might not either co-operate at the same time in the same
phenomenon, or alternately produce different manifestations.
Prima facie, and as a matter of " dramatic " probability, other
intelligences than our own appear on an enormous scale in the
historic mass of material which Myers first brought together
under the title of Automatisms. The refusal of modern
" enlightenment " to treat " possession " as a hypothesis to be
spoken of as even possible, in spite of the massive human
tradition based on concrete experience in its favor, has always
seemed to me a curious example of the power of fashion in
things scientific. That the demon-theory (not necessarily a
devil-theory) will have its innings again is to my mind
absolutely certain. One has to be " scientific " indeed, to be
blind and ignorant enough to suspect no such possibility.
But if the liability to have one's somnambulistic or automatic
processes participated in and interfered with by spiritual
entities of a different order ever turn out to be a pro-
bable fact, then not only what I have called the will to
lviii.] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 119
communicate, but also the will to personate may fall outside
of the medium's own dream-life. The humbugging may not
be chargeable to her all alone, centres of consciousness lower
than hers may take part in it, just as higher ones may
occasion some of the more inexplicable items of the veridical
current in the stream.
The plot of possibilities thus thickens ; and it thickens still
more when we ask how a will which is dormant or relatively
dormant during the intervals may become consciously reani-
mated as a spirit-personality by the occurrence of the medium's
trance. A certain theory of Fechner's helps my own imagina-
tion here, so I will state it briefly for my reader's benefit.
Fechner in his Zend-Avesta 1
and elsewhere assumes that
mental and physical life run parallel, all memory-processes
being, according to him, co-ordinated with material processes.
If an act of yours is to be consciously remembered hereafter,
it must leave traces on the material universe such that when
the traced parts of the said universe systematically enter into
activity together the act is consciously recalled. During your
life the traces are mainly in your brain ; but after your death,
since your brain is gone, they exist in the shape of all the
records of your actions which the outer world stores up as
the effects, immediate or remote, thereof, the cosmos being in
some degree, however slight, made structurally different by
every act of ours that takes place in it.
2
Now, just as the
air of the same room can be simultaneously used by many
different voices for communicating with different pairs of ears,
or as the ether of space can carry many simultaneous messages
1
Zend-Avesta, 2nd edition, 1901, §§ XXI. and following. Compare also
Elwood Worcester : The Living Word, New York, Moffett, Yard & Co.,
1908, Part II. : and Wm. James, A Pluralistic Universe, Longmans, Green &
Co., 1909. Lecture iv.
2 " It is Handel's work, not the body with which he did the work, that
pulls us half over London. There is not an action of a muscle in a horse's
leg upon a winter's night as it drags a carriage to the Albert Hall but what
is in connection with, and part outcome of, the force generated when Handel
sat in his room at Gopsall and wrote the Messiah. . . . This is the true
Handel who is more a living power among us one hundred and twenty-two
years after his death than during the time he was amongst us in the body."
Samuel Butler, in the New Quarterly, I. 303, March, 1908.
120 Professor William James. [part
to and from mutually attuned Marconi-stations, so the great
continuum of material nature can have certain tracts within
it thrown into emphasized activity whenever activity hegins
in any part or parts of a tract in which the potentiality of
such systematic activity inheres. The bodies (including of
course the brains) of Hodgson's friends who come as sitters,
are naturally parts of the material universe which carry some
of the traces of his ancient acts. They function as receiving
stations, and Hodgson (at one time of his life at any rate) was in-
clined to suspect that the sitter himself acts " psychometrically,"
or by his body being what, in the trance-jargon, is called an
" influence," in attracting the right spirits and eliciting the
right communications from the other side. If, now, the rest
of the system of physical traces left behind by Hodgson's
acts were by some sort of mutual induction throughout its
extent, thrown into gear and made to vibrate all at once, by
the presence of such human bodies to the medium, we should
have a Hodgson-system active in the cosmos again, and the
" conscious aspect " of this vibrating system might be Hodgson's
spirit redivivus, and recollecting and willing in a certain
momentary way. There seems fair evidence of the reality of
psychometry ; so that this scheme covers the main phenomena
in a vague general way. In particular, it would account for
the " confusion " and " weakness " that are such prevalent
features : the system of physical traces corresponding to the
given spirit would then be only imperfectly aroused. It tallies
vaguely with the analogy of energy finding its way from higher
to lower levels. The sitter, with his desire to receive, forms, so
to speak, a drainage-opening or sink ; the medium, with her
desire to personate, yields the nearest lying material to be
drained off
1
;
while the spirit desiring to communicate is shown
the way by the current set up, and swells the latter by its
own contributions.
It is enough to indicate these various possibilities, which a
serious student of this part of nature has to weigh together,
and between which his decision must fall. His vote will
always be cast (if ever it be cast) by the sense of the
dramatic probabilities of nature which the sum total of his
experience has begotten in him. / myself feel as if an
lviil] Report on Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control. 121
external will to communicate ivere probably there, that is, I
find myself doubting, in consequence of my whole acquaintance
with that sphere of phenomena, that Mrs. Piper's dream-life,
even equipped with " telepathic " powers, accounts for all the
results found. But if asked whether the will to communicate
be Hodgson's, or be some mere spirit-counterfeit of Hodgson,
I remain uncertain and await more facts, facts which may not
point clearly to a conclusion for fifty or a hundred years.
My report has been too rambling in form, and has suffered
in cordiality of tone from having to confine itself to the
face-value of the Hodgson-material taken alone. The con-
tent of that material is no more veridical than is a lot of
earlier Piper-material, especially in the clays of the old Phinuit
control.1
And it is, as I began by saying, vastly more leaky
and susceptible of naturalistic explanation than is any body of
Piper-material recorded before. Had I been reviewing the
entire Piper-phenomenon, instead of this small section of it,
my tone would probably give much less umbrage to some of
its spiritistic friends who are also valued friends of mine.
1
See, in proof of this assertion, Hodgson's and Hyslop's previous reports.
122 Mrs. Sidgwick and J. G. Piddington. [part
II.
NOTE ON MRS. FIEEE'S HODGSON-CONTROL IN
ENGLAND IN 1906-7.
By Mrs. H. Sidgwick and J. G. Piddington.
We think it may be useful to complete the account of the
Hodgson-Piper control (HodgsonP)
up to January, 1908, by
giving here a brief risumi, of our experience of it during Mrs.
Piper's visit to England, which interrupted in 1906-7 the
sittings dealt with above by Professor James.
The Hodgson control appeared frequently at Mrs. Piper's
English sittings, but was seldom the most prominent control.
In explanation of this he stated that he was engaged in helping
Myers and others to communicate, and thought it better to
keep himself in the background.1
On the one hand his style
and expressions in communicating resembled those described
by Professor James, and were dramatically suitable to Hodgson.
Moreover, he referred appropriately and characteristically, though
rather generally, to private matters with which Hodgson and
the sitter (Miss Alice Johnson on one occasion and Mrs. Sidg-
wick on another) had been concerned. (These references, however,
though impressive, cannot be regarded as quite satisfactory
from an evidential point of view, because the knowledge of
facts unknown to Mrs. Piper which they primd facie seem to
involve, might have been derived from facts which Hodgson,
when alive, had mentioned to the trance-personalities.) On the
other hand, the attempts made by HodgsonP to recall trivial
incidents were not convincing, and were, in fact, often wrong.
To Mrs. Sidgwick it seemed that such attempts in relation to
1
Thus on February 6, 1907, Hodgson^ wrote: "You must pardon me if I
do not appear here often personally, as I feel I can be of better service by helping
others for a time at least."
lviii.] Mrs. Pipers Hodgson-Control in England. 123
her were either guesses or, if referring to real events at all,
reminiscences appropriate not to her but to some other friend.
The communications so far spoken of are those which came
spontaneously and unsought in the course of sittings with
persons known to be present both by Mrs. Piper's normal self
and by the trance personalities. But a systematic attempt was
made to obtain evidence which should be free from the sources
of leakage and possibilities of naturalistic explanation, which,
as Professor James points out, were largely though inevitably
present in the body of evidence with which he had to deal.
We introduced anonymously, and after the trance had begun,
intimate English friends of Hodgson's hitherto unconnected
with the active work of the Society for Psychical Research,
and who had never met Mrs. Piper either in her normal or
her trance state ; about whom, moreover, it was unlikely that
Hodgson in this life would have spoken in any detail, if indeed
at all, either to Mrs. Piper or the trance personalities. Unfor-
tunately the results were almost purely negative. Three such
intimate friends had among them seven sittings, and all went
away disappointed. Even after clues had been given by the
sitters, nothing that could be regarded as adequate evidence of
recognition was said, and there was a great deal of what looked
like guessing and fishing, and much said that was inappropriate.1
A fourth friend of Hodgson's had five sittings under what
might be supposed to be very favourable circumstances—in
the very rooms in which Hodgson had dined with him the
last time that they had met in England. Nevertheless there
was no good evidence that there were any associations for
HodgsonP either with the friend or with the room. This is
all the more remarkable because these sittings afforded very
interesting evidence of supernormally acquired knowledge.
What happened was that another friend of the sitter's, long
deceased, professed to communicate, gave his name correctly,
and correctly said that he had promised to communicate if he
should die first. Other correct statements, though also some
incorrect ones, were made.'2
All this time HodgsonP professed
1
Compare, however, in this connexion Section XIII. of Mr. Piddington's
paper in Proceedings, Vol. XXII. pp. 179-192, where portions of some of
these sittings are dealt with.
-It is hoped that it may be possible some day to publish details.
124 Mrs. Sidgivick and J. G. Piddington. [part
to be helping the communicator, but did not himself claim any
connexion with the sitter till, after the five sittings were over,
a hint was given to him. The following extracts show this :
Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on
February 19, 1907.
(Present, Mr. Piddington alone.)
(Hodgson communicating.)
J. G. P. . . . When you are helping spirits to talk through this
light, can you recognise the mortals with whom they are
communicating 1
No, not at the time when I am helping them, but if I
came alone I could recognise them, I think, perfectly.
J. G. P. Yes.
I had an idea that I got a glimpse of a friend recently,
but found another friend who recognised him also, and
therefore I left.
J. G. P. What was the name of the other friend 1
Hudson [the name of the above-mentioned long-deceased
friend of the previous sitter].
J. G. P. Hodgson,
Hello.
J. G. P. The mortal friend to whom Hudson spoke was also-
(Hand interrupts.)
also a friend of mine 1 Yes, I understand perfectly.
J. G. P. Well, tell me who he was.
I will, after I talk with Hudson.
Oh, Pid., I am not idle, not for one moment. I hope] he
was not disappointed, as I explained to you longTago
lviii.] Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control in England. 125
that anything I personally might say would not convince
half so quickly as what others might say to whom I
gave help.
J. G. P. It would, of course, have been very good if you had
recognised the friend ; but it will still be very good if,
when you go out, you could talk it over with Hudson
and then say things to prove you know who the
friend is.
Exarth/. I understand, and I will certainly do so, but I
have told you already that I know him.
At later sittings there were what we took to be attempts
at this sitter's name, though not explicitly referred to him, and
reminiscences that may have applied to him were connected by
Hodgsoiip with another sitter ; but there was nothing that can
be claimed as proof that Hodgsoiip really remembered anything
about him.
This failure on the part of Hodgsoiip to recognise Hodgson's
friends is the more remarkable because HodgsonP had been
told first by Mr. Piddington at Boston and later by Sir Oliver
Lodge at Edgbaston that friends of Hodgson's (not specified, of
course) would come to the sittings, so that it was natural to
suppose that HodgsonP would be on the look-out for them.
A fifth person who had sittings with Mrs. Piper in
England was " Mrs. Eorbes," known to readers of the Pro-
ceedings as an automatist who has had veridical communications,
and some cross-correspondences with Mrs. Verrall. Mrs. Forbes
had not previously seen Mrs. Piper, but she knew Hodgson,
who on one of his later visits to England had stayed at her
house to discuss psychical matters. Like the other sitters, she
was introduced anonymously and after the trance had begun,
but her name was inadvertently mentioned to the trance
personalities before the end of the series of four sittings.
The sittings were not on the whole satisfactory, though the
real name of Mrs. Forbes's son " Talbot " (see Proceedings,
Vol. XX., p. 220) was gradually arrived at by Kector before her
name had been revealed. HodgsonP communicated in the course
of the first sitting and after a sufficient interchange of remarks
12G Mrs. Sidgwick and J. G. Piddington. [part
to suggest that the sitter had been acquainted with Hodgson,
tried to remind her of the story about the old man and woman
praying for bread told by Professor James above (p. 26).
This the sitter failed to remember, but she remembers having
had discussions with Hodgson about prayer. There was not,
however, enough verifiable specific detail to make it certain
that the conversation referred to by HodgsonP was really a
conversation with Mrs. Forbes.
From what we have said it is clear that our attempt, by
introducing Hodgson's friends, to obtain evidence of continuity
of memory between HodgsonP and Hodgson must be regarded
as a failure. The same, it may be remarked, is true of the
similar experiments we made in connection with Henry Sidgwick.1
His communications in the trance were much rarer than
Hodgson's, but they did not occur at all when friends were
introduced whom it was hoped he would recognise. What
the inference to be drawn from these negative results should
be—whether the failure is to be attributed to the absence of
continuous memory or to the absence of conditions essential
to its manifestation—it is not possible in our present state
of ignorance about the whole subject to decide.
1
Since 1901 a control calling itself Henry Sidgwick has put in occasional
appearances in Mrs. Piper's trance. The personation has been, however, of
the feeblest description ; a fact all the more strange because Mrs. Piper was
personally acquainted with Dr. Sidgwick.
lviii.] Report on some Trance Communications. 127
III.
EEPOET ON SOME TBANCE COMMUNICATIONS
EECEIVED CHIEFLY THROUGH MBS. PI PEE.
By Sir Oliver Lodge.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
PAGE
Introduction. Anticipatory Eeply to Critics - 128
Chapter I. Explanatory and Historical - - 130
The present manner of a Piper sitting.
General remarks on Piper Controls - 137
Chapter II. The Gurney Control - - 140
Some sittings
'
m 1889 and 1890.
Various unverifiable communications - - 145
Chapter III. The Isaac Thompson Case - - 162
Communications in 1905 - - -
164
Ditto in 1906 - - - -
171
Sittings with Isaac Thompson's family - - - -
174
Messages received at Edgbaston - - - - - - 189
Remarks on Eelics - - - - - - - - 196
Chapter IV. The Myers Control - - - - - 198
Messages received through Mrs. Thompson.
Eecord of sittings in 1901 - - - - - - - 201
General remarks addressed to religious objectors - - 215
Specific comments - - - - - - - - 217
Chapter V. Messages obtained through Miss Rawson - 219
Chapter VI. Messages from the Myers and Hodgson
Controls of Mrs. Piper, Autumn 1906 - - - 226
Chapter VII. The Myers and Hodgson Controls of Mrs.
Piper, Spring 1907 - - - - - - .
2iS
128 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
PAGE
Chapter VIII. The Joseph Marble Series - - 255
Mrs. Grove's sittings with Mrs. Thompson in 1900 - 257
Mrs. Grove's sittings with Mrs. Piper in 1906 - - 265
Experiment on recognition of photograph - 275
Comment ... ....... 278
Chapter IX. Supplementary Eemarks - - - 280
Phinuit.
Concluding observations 281
INTRODUCTION.
My object in drawing up the following Report is to give a general
idea of the dramatic aspect of the Piper phenomena, and of the
utterances of some of the ostensible controls. For this purpose
therefore I do not limit myself to the consideration of evidential
matter, but regard the non-evidential and the trivial as sometimes
equally instructive. I do not propose to argue as to the nature
of these same controls, although that constitutes the main problem
before us. The time hardly appears ripe for useful discussion of
that kind, and I feel myself in agreement with Professor William
James when he says (see above, p. 29) :
"The facts are evidently complicated in the extreme, and we
have as yet hardly scratched the surface of them
I consequently disbelieve in being too 'rigorous' with our criticism
of anything now in hand, or in our squeezing so evidently
vague a material too hard in our technical forceps, at the
present stage. What we need is more and more observations.
Quantity may have to supplement quality in the material.
When we have the facts in sufficient number, we may be sure
that they will cast plenty of explanatory backward light. We
can therefore well afford to play a waiting game."
There is one kind of criticism which had better be met and if
possible countered from the first. The method of a Piper sitting
is a conversation —usually written on one side, spoken on the
other, —and in a conversation it is natural and necessary, if the
colloquy is to be maintained, to deal with the utterances at their
face value, and accept the speaker or writer for what he purports
to be at the time. The only alternative is to refuse to continue
the conversation. When therefore a critic objects to " Hail Myers,
(Lvm.] On Trance Communications, Introduction. 129
.glad to see you," as a response to the greeting "Well well Lodge
I am Myers," or when he ridicules such phrases as "Glad to see
you at last," and "I expect so," as responses to the boisterous
salutation "Hello Lodge, I am Hodgson," "I am very much alive,"
he shows himself deficient in imagination. In the same predicament
the most carping critic would himself instinctively respond some-
what in the same vein ; unless he declined to respond at all and
threw the whole thing up. But we could have managed that still
more simply by not inviting Mrs. Piper over !
In answering a telephone call, the object of an ordinary communi-
cator is to ascertain who his correspondent pretends to be. A
conversation would soon languish if friendly advances were met by
accusations of fraudulent impersonation. Caution should of course
be constantly exercised not to give gratuitous information, and every
piece of information given should be carefully recorded, but the
•contention that a hostile or squeamish attitude should be taken by
every unprejudiced investigator is quite absurd; it would only be
appropriate to one who so despises and sneers at the whole subject
as to refuse an opportunity of learning anything about it. Doubt-
less there are many such people in existence, and with them I have
no quarrel ; but they are not asked to read or review these and
other such reports.
One other preliminary remark may be made. Communications are
now conducted by writing, and the script is not at all easy to read.
There are only a few cases where there is any ultimate doubt as
to the correctness of the reading, when it has been deciphered, but
it cannot always be deciphered on the spot. This difficulty has
perhaps hardly been sufficiently emphasised in the other papers on
~the subject—for instance, in Mr. Piddington's. In many cases the
temporary misunderstandings recorded must seem stupid to a reader
who has printed sentences before him : but I can assure him that
if he saw the script he would in some cases be surprised at the
amount of intelligence shown by readers. The long experience of
Dr. Hodgson and Mr. Piddington enables them to decipher the
script with fair promptitude, though Rector is rather liable to discount
this advantage by writing more quickly, and therefore still more
illegibly, when dealing with a skilled reader. So the contemporary
reading is always a strain, and mistakes will occur wdiich interrupt
anything like easy conversation—such a conversation as you might
expect to carry on with a perfectly dumb person who is not deaf.
I
130 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
CHAPTER I.
Explanatory and Historical.
My first acquaintance with Mrs. Piper dates from 19 Nov. 1889,.
and my first experience of a sitting with her was at Cambridge on
Nov. 30 of the same year.
Between Dec. 18 and Dec. 27, 1889, she stayed in my house at
Liverpool ; and again between Jan. 30 and Feb. 5, 1890; on which
latter date she returned to America.
At that time she was accustomed to give sittings as often as
twice a day.
A full account of my experiences on these occasions is recorded
in the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research for December
1890, Part XVII, Vol. 6, pp. 413-557. This is preceded by an
introduction, pages 436-442, written by F. W. H. Myers, and is
followed by a report on further sittings by Dr. Walter Leaf, together
with short supplementary statements by Prof, and Mrs. Sidgwick,
Prof. Richet, and Prof. Wm, James.
I saw Mrs. Piper again on 9 Nov. 1906 at Liverpool, where she
had just arrived from America, and was staying in the house of
Mrs. Isaac Thompson of Liverpool, whose acquaintance she had made
on her previous visit to this country. Another series of sittings
then began, but at a rate of only two or three per week instead
of two a day, and of the general character of these I now propose
to give an account.
It has been described by Mr. Piddington in his recent paper,
but an independent description may supplement his in a few
particulars. In so far as there is repetition, it will presumably be
repetition of salient points, and as such is not altogether to be
deprecated. It is not easy to make a reader as familiar with the
whole procedure as an experimenter becomes who has undertaken
the labour of supervising a number of sittings.
Since our first English experience with Mrs. Piper a great mass
of material had been accumulated in America, under the manage-
ment of Dr. Hodgson, and the manner of the sittings had somewhat
changed. In the old days communication had always been made with
the voice, and any writing done was only brief and occasional. Now
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter I. 131
communications are almost entirely in writing, and only under
exceptional circumstances is the voice employed.
There was an intermediate stage, reported by Dr. Hodgson in
Vol. 13, pp. 358 and 398, during which both hand and voice were
separately employed at the same time, —a sort of duplex telegraphy
—so that two sets of independent messages could be going on
simultaneously, and two different sitters accommodated, one talking
to the voice and the other to the hand. Once or twice even the
left hand seems to have been independently employed as well.
This condition was one of great interest, but it must have been a
strain and it did not very long continue. Gradually the G.P. control
monopolised the right hand, and Phinuit was gradually ousted from
the voice.
In the old days Mrs. Piper sat upright in her chair, with head
somewhat bowed and eyes closed, and with both hands available
for holding objects or a hand of the sitter. Now her head reclined
throughout on a cushion, with her face turned away. The right
hand alone was active, being engaged nearly all the time in
writing, with intervals of what looked like listening. The dramatic
activity of the hand was very remarkable : it was full of intelligence,
and could be described as more like an intelligent person than a
hand. It sometimes turned itself to the sitter, when it wanted to be
spoken to by him ; but for the most part, when not writing, it
turned itself away from the sitter, as if receiving communications
from outside, which it then proceeded to write down ;
going back
to space i.e. directing itself to a part of the room where nobody
was—for further information and supplementary intelligence, as
necessity arose.
The manner of preparation was as follows. A quiet room was
selected in which interruption need not be feared ; a fire was pro-
vided for warmth, and the windows were open for ventilation. A
comfortable chair was placed near a table, on which was a pile of
from four to six cushions or pillows, on which the medium sitting
in the chair and leaning forward could securely rest the side of
her head when sleep came on, —not burying her face in the cushions,
but turning it to the left side so as to be able to breathe during
the trance. If it ever happened that the pillows incommoded the
breathing, they had to be adjusted and pressed down by the experi-
menter in charge, so that air obtained free access to the mouth
and nose. On the right hand side of the pillows, either on the
same or on a small subsidiary table, the writing materials were
132 Sir Oliver Lodge. [PART
arranged, namely a large pad or block-book (10" x 8") of 100 blank
sheets all numbered in order, and four or five pencils of soft lead,
2 b or 3 b, properly cut and ready.
It was the duty of the experimenter in charge to record all that
the sitter said. This could generally be done sideways on the same
sheet without interfering with the medium's hand. He also had
to arrange the pad so that the hand could conveniently write upon
it ; and to tear off the sheets as they were done with. No attempt
was made to economise paper ; the automatic writing was large
and scrawling, and did not often begin at the top of the page.
Sometimes a good deal of writing was obtained on a single page,
sometimes only a few lines, and occasionally only a few words.
The tearing off of the old sheet was quickly done; and the hand
waited the moment necessary : though sometimes, when in the
midst of an energetic message, it indicated momentary impatience at
the interruption.
Mrs. Piper and her daughters often had breakfast with the family,
though occasionally she breakfasted in her room. On ordinary days
she went shopping or sight-seeing, or was otherwise ordinarily occu-
pied ; but on sitting days she went back after breakfast to her
own room to be cpiiet. At the time fixed for the sitting, say
10 or 10.30 a.m., Mrs. Piper came into the arranged room and seated
herself in the chair in front of the pillows ; then the experimenter
in charge sat down on a chair near the table, leaving a vacant chair
between him and the medium, for the Sitter ; who at my sittings
was sometimes present from the first, but at those held in London,
was introduced only after the trance had come on. Mrs. Piper sat
with her hands on the pillows in front of her; about five minutes
of desultory conversation followed, then heavy breathing began, and
the head of the medium presently dropped on to her hands on
the pillows and turned itself with its face to the left.
Then almost at once the right hand disengaged itself and fell on
the table near the writing materials. After about 30 seconds of
complete quiescence, this hand alone '
woke up ' as it were ; it
slowly rose, made the sign of the cross in the air, and indicated that
it was ready to write.
The experimenter then gave the hand a pencil, placing it between
fore and middle fingers ; it was at once grasped, and writing began.
First a cross was drawn, and then the word "Hail" was written,
followed usually by " We return to earth this day with joy and
peace " ; or " We greet you friend of earth once again, we bring
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter I. 133
peace and love"; or some such semi-religious phrase, signed "R,"
which stands for '
Rector ' the ostensible amanuensis.
In the old days the control had styled itself 'Phinuit'; now Phinuit
never appears, and the control calls itself Rector.
I am aware that all this is familiar to a great number of members
of the Society ; but new members join, and if I were to begin to
allow for previous information I should be very uncertain where to
stop allowing. I should probably omit the whole of this introductory
portion.
In the old days the tone was not so dignified and serious as it
is now : it could in fact then be described as rather humorous
and slangy ; but there was a serious under-current constantly present
even then ; the welcomes and farewells were quaint and kindly
even affectionate at times—and nothing was ever said of a character
that could give offence. I judge that stupid familiarity or frivolity
on the part of a sitter—for which, however, there was no excuse
would have been at once rebuked and checked.
In the old days the going into trance seemed rather a painful
process, or at least a process involving muscular effort ; there was
some amount of contortion of the face, and sometimes a slight
tearing of the hair; and the same actions accompanied the return
of consciousness. Now the trance seems nothing more than an
exceptionally heavy sleep, entered into without effort—a sleep with
the superficial appearance of that induced by chloroform ; and the
return to consciousness, though slow and for a time accompanied
by confusion, is easy and natural.
A sitting used to last only about an hour ; and on the rare
occasions when there is a voice sitting now, an hour is the limit
but a writing sitting seems less of a strain, and was often allowed
to last as much as two hours, though not more.
In the old days, when sittings were more frequent, there were
degrees of intensity about them. Occasionally, though rarely, they
declined to come on at all ; and sometimes, even when they did,
the loss of consciousness seemed less than complete. Under present
conditions the trance was undoubtedly profound, and the suspension
of normal consciousness unmistakably complete. Once, but only
once in my recent experience, the trance refused to come on, and
the attempt at a sitting had to be abandoned till next day.
Usually after purposely placing herself under the familiar condi-
tions to which she is accustomed, Mrs. Piper is able to let herself
go off, without trouble or delay.
134 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Great care was taken of the body of the medium, both now and
previously, by the operating intelligence. She was spoken of usually
as "the light," sometimes as "the machine," though the word
" machine " commonly signified only the pencil.
If anything went wrong with the breathing, or if there was
insufficient air in the room, or if the cushions slipped so as to
make the attitude uncomfortable, the hand wrote " something wrong
with the machine," or " attend to the light, " or something of that
sort ; and the experimenter amended the arrangements before the
writing went on. The whole thing was as sensible and easy as
possible, as soon as the circumstances and conditions were under-
stood. Each experimenter, of course, handed down all the informa-
tion and Hodgsonian tradition of this kind to the next, so that all
the conditions to which Mrs. Piper was accustomed could be supplied
beforehand, and so that no injury would happen to her bodily
health.
The following illustrates the care taken of the physical conditions
and the way they are spoken of. It is an extract from a sitting
held by Mr. Dorr at Boston in 1906.
(Rector interrupting a " Hodgson " communication)
Friend, you will have to change the conditions a moment.
[At the beginning of the sitting only one of the two windows
in the room was open a very little way. A few moments
previous to this time H. J. Jr. noticing that the room
was a little close had opened the other window, and
G. B. D. had nearly closed it again.]
G. B. D. What is wrong with the conditions 1 Do you want more
air or less 1
Well, there will have to be a change in the surroundings,
there will have to be more strength, what is it, air,
yes, air. And a good deal more just now. Hodgson
takes a good deal of strength when he comes, but he is
all right, he understands the methods of operation very
well. (The window was now opened wide.) That is
better. Now the light begins to get clear. All right,
friend.
As the time drew near to the two-hour limit, which has been set
as a period beyond which it is undesirable to persist, and some-
1,viii.] On, Trance Communications, Chapter I. 135
times at the end of about an hour and a half, or an hour and three
quarters, from the commencement, the experimenter in charge gave
a hint that the sitting must terminate soon ; or else the controls
indicate the same thing, and they then begin to clear up and take
farewell. A sitting usually concludes as it began, with the writing
of a serious sentence invoking the blessing of the Most High upon
the sitter and the group.
The coming out of the trance was gradual, and semi-consciousness
lasted for several minutes, during which muttered sentences were
ottered, and the eyes, if open at all, only glared in sleep-walking
fashion, until almost suddenly they took on a natural appearance, and
Mrs. Piper became herself. Even then, however, for half an hour
or so after the trance had disappeared, the medium continued
slightly dazed and only partly herself. During this time her eldest
daughter usually took charge of her. But the trance itself was so
familiar to them all that the daughters were not the least anxious,
and in another room went on with their letters or needle-work
unconcerned. After a sitting, one of them was usually called and
•took her mother for a stroll in the garden. Then everybody had
lunch together and talked of ordinary topics, nothing being said
about the sitting, and no ill result of an)' kind being experienced.
It seemed a normal function in her case. The experimenter mean-
while had collected the papers and arranged them in order, and had
removed the pencils and other appliances. Subsequently it was his
business to write out legibly all the material accumulated during the
two hours of sitting, to annotate it sufficiently, and send it to a
typewriter.
The actual record is of course preserved for exact reference
whenever necessary. A record was also made of the remarks of
Mrs. Piper during the period of awaking from trance. These were
more or less mumbled and difficult to hear, but they were often a
continuation of what had been obtained during trance, and generally
contained useful passages ;
though part of them nearly always con-
sisted of expressions of admiration for the state or experience she
was leaving, and of repulsion—almost disgust—at the commonplace
terrestrial surroundings in which she found herself. Even a bright
day was described as dingy or dark, and the sitter was stared at
in an unrecognizing way, and described as a dull and ugly person,
or sometimes as a negro. Presently, however, the eyes became
intelligent, and she recognised some one—usually Lady Lodge first
and then with a smile welcomed her by name, and speedily
136 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
came to. Some examples of these waking utterances will be found,
on pages 169, 185-7, 232, 276, 277.
Coming to ordinary social details : it is not an impertinence, but
is justified by the special circumstances of the case, to state that the
family is an admirable one, and that we regard them as genuine
friends.
At the time of Mrs. Piper's first visit her daughters were children..
Now they are grown up, and are very useful to their mother. Nothing
in any way abnormal or unusual is to be noticed about them, and their
mother expresses it as her sincerest wish that they will not develop her
power. For though she must realise the value of her services to
science, she cannot but feel that it to some extent isolates her and
marks her out as peculiar among her neighbours in New England,
and that the time spent in the trance state must have made a distinct
inroad on her available life-time. This however must to some extent
be the case with any occupation, and it is as the duty specially allotted
to her that she has learnt to regard her long service, now extending
over a quarter of a century. She became acquainted with Professor
William James—who from our point of view may be said to have
discovered her—in 1885, but by that time her powers were already
fully developed and well known to a group of admirers. They appear
to have been noticed in 1884,-—see Proc. S.P.R. Vol. 8, p. 46.
In May, 1887, Dr. Richard Hodgson, who was over in the States
as Agent or American Secretary of the S.P.R., was introduced by
Prof. William James, and had his first set of sittings with her. On
the strength of these experiences he proceeded energetically to investi-
gate and subject her to tests, in case he might be able to discover
some fraudulent procedure. There was none however to detect,
and gradually lie became one of the most convinced and enthusiastic
of her supervisors. He held and superintended an immense number
of sittings—the first series of which are reported on by him in
Volume 8 of the Proceedings of the S.P.R. (the details beginning on
page 59) ; and this report constitutes the second large batch of
material on the subject published by the Society.
There is a large amount of unpublished material accumulated
in America, which remains still to be edited some day : but some
portions have already appeared in the Society's Proceedings from,
time to time.
Vol. 13 contains a further report by Dr. Hodgson of occurrences
in the year 1892-4, and herein is recorded the first appearance of
automatic writing through Mi s. Piper—Phinuit being still in customary
lyiil] On Trance Communications, Chapter I. 137
possession, but beginning to be displaced by the other controls. On
page 295 is a history of the George Pelham control, and on page 408
is related the first appearance of Stainton Moses, which before long
led to the development of some controls like his, though with some
dissimilarities. Phinu.it gave place to them altogether in 1897.
Vol. 14 contains a record, by Prof. W. R. Newbold, of a con-
siderable collection of sittings held by him in conjunction with Dr.
Hodgson in 1894-6.
Vol. 16 consists entirely of a Report by Professor Hyslop on his
series of sittings in 1898-9.
Mr. Podmore discusses Piper sittings in Vol. 14, p. 50, and Mrs.
Sidgwick discusses them in Vol. 15, p. 16.
Finally, Mrs. Verrall's own automatic script, which only began after
Mr. Myers's death, is analysed by herself in a paper which constitutes
the whole of Vol. 20. Part LV. of the Proceedings S.P.R. (Vol. 21)
contains Miss Johnson's report on the script of Mrs. Holland, and
Vol. 22 consists of Mr. Piddington's report on Mrs. Piper.
General Remarks on Piper Controls.
Last time, viz. in 1890, I gave a full chronological series of all the
sittings, and it would be easy to continue that process on this
occasion also. But it would be rather tedious, and seems likely to
serve no useful purpose. It is a more laborious plan, but probably
more serviceable, to dissect out the parts relating to certain main
episodes, or received from certain chief communicators, so as to collect
and arrange together all the messages which purport to come from a
single control, free from the interleaved communications from others.
In this way the reader will be able to get a better grasp of the
personality, or of the impersonation, as the case may be, than if his
utterances were scattered about through the sittings as in the old
record.
It is even desirable, I think, to extract from those old records a
few of the utterances which purported to come then from the same
communicators ; and likewise to record a few of the messages given
by these communicators through other mediums, so far as they
have come directly to myself and are concerned with the same
general sort of topics.
On the cross-correspondence messages I shall touch only very lightly,
though I recognise their great importance ; because this part of the
subject requires the collation of the contemporary records of several
sitters, and the labour of doing this has been left to Mr. Piddington,
138 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
One curious circumstance I feel constrained to mention—though it
will seem absurd—and that is that the controls seem to do best in
their own country. For instance, long ago, before any of us on this
side of the Atlantic had seen Mrs. Piper, a control calling itself
Gurney sent messages through that medium while she was still in
America ; which messages, when recorded on this side, were thought
feeble and unworthy, so that the control was spoken of both by
Prof. W, James and by those in England as " the pseudo-Gurney."
When, however, Mrs. Piper came over here the "Gurney" messages
became better, and could be described as quite fairly lifelike. Con-
versely, the Hodgson control, which seemed rather brilliant and
active over there, when it appeared on this side did not sustain
that character to the full extent. It was robust and lively, and in
manner like Hodgson, but it was not so successful in furnishing
tests or in recognising old friends. Again, the Myers control, which
had seemed rather weak over there, on this side gained strength
and vivacity, and gave some admirable tests.
The fact of the difference here suggested may be doubted, and I
do not dogmatise about it, but that is my impression ; and I see that
something similar has already struck Mr. Piddington, and is remarked
upon by him at the beginning of his Introduction. I have no
explanation to offer, beyond the obvious suggestion that familiar
and friendly surroundings—greater intimacy of friends and relations
in the proximate neighbourhood —all make for strength and reality
and give assistance to the impersonation. This indeed is a conceiv-
able possibility on any hypothesis, whether the control is merely a
personation by Mrs. Piper's subliminal consciousness, or is a telepathic
influence from living persons acting upon it, or whether it is really
some surviving influence of the departed intelligence who is the
ostensible communicator.
In speaking of messages received from a certain control, it is not
to be understood in general that that control is actually manipulating
the organism ; it may be always, and certainly is in general, merely
dictating through an amanuensis as it were,—the actual writer or
speaker being either 'Rector' or 'Phinuit,' who again may or may
not be a phase of Mrs. Piper's personality.
In the old days, undoubtedly, the appearance was sometimes as
if the actual control was changed—after the fashion of a multiple
personality ; whereas now I think it is nearly always Rector that
writes, recording the messages given to him as nearly as he can,
and usually reporting in the first person, as Phinuit often did. I
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter I. 139
do not attempt to discriminate between what is given in this way
and what is given directly, because it is practically impossible to do
so with any certainty; since what appears to be direct control is liable
to shade off into obvious reporting. That is to say, if a special
agency gets control and writes for a few minutes, it does not seem
able to sustain the position long, but soon abandons it to the more
accomplished and experienced personality, Rector. In the recent
series there appeared very little evidence of direct control other
than Rector.
We shall speak however of the 'Gurney control,' 'the Hodgson
•control', etc., without implying that these agents—even assuming
their existence and activity —are ever really in physical possession
of the organism ;
and, even when they are controlling as directly as
possible, they may perhaps always be operating telepathically on it
rather than telergically—operating, that is to say, through some
stratum of the mind, rather than directly on any part of the
physical organism. It is rather soon as yet to make definite
assertions regarding the actual method of control : there are too
many unknown quantities about the whole phenomenon ; at the
same time Dr. Hodgson has thought it worth while to report
the general aspect of the phenomenon as it is said to appear to the
"communicators" themselves; he does this on page 400 of Vol. 13
{a portion is quoted below on page 147). And in the next few
pages he goes on to indicate his own independent view of what is
occurring, giving a detailed description which my own smaller ex-
perience, as far as it goes, tends in a general way to confirm. Readers
interested in these particulars may here conveniently refer to further
remarks on the subject in Chapter II., pp. 161, 147.
One other point deserves to be here mentioned :
In the days of Phinuit considerable facility was shown in dealing
with strangers. Persons introduced anonymously had their relations
•enumerated, and their family affairs referred to, in a remarkably
quick and clever way : so much so that they sometimes thought that
their special case must have been "got up" beforehand. The facility
for dealing with strangers in this way is now much less marked.
The introduction of a stranger now makes things slow and laborious,
and is on the whole discouraged ; for although the old characteristics
continue to some extent, the tests now given are mainly of a different
kind. The early procedure was useful at the beginning, and it
•continued useful for a good many years till a case for investigation
was firmly established ; but it must have seemed tedious to prolong
140 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
that method further, so the group of controls associated with Rector
assured Dr Hodgson that they would take the trance in hand and
develop it on better and higher lines.
As to how far the change is an improvement, there has been at
times some difference of opinion ; but in view of the remarkable
tests recently given under what, though of several years' standing,
may be called, the new regime—tests which have been dissected
out by Mr. Piddington—there can be but little doubt about the
improvement now, however imperfectly or doubtfully it may manifest
itself in my small portion of the whole report. I shall begin, how-
ever, not with messages received under the new conditions, but with
some received under the old.
CHAPTER II.
The Gurney Control.
Some of the messages purporting to come directly or indirectly
from the late Edmund Gurney were received by me in 1889, and
are partially reported in the Proceedings, Vol. 6, already referred
to ; but part was ignored as unverifiable, and another part suppressed
as too private ;
moreover, even the part published is disguised under
the pseudonym of " Mr. E." This anonymity seems no longer
necessary ; and I shall no longer trouble myself as to whether
the communication refers to verifiable subjects or not, but shall
give what was said as completely as possible—that is to say as-
far as it could be taken down by a moderately expert note-taker
with an excellent memory—in order to convey some idea of the
conversation.
On the whole, it was rather a lifelike impersonation, and now
that we have determined to make the working hypothesis that
deceased members of the S.P.R. may conceivably have something
to do with the messages, I propose to republish the old Gurney
communications, so as to make a more complete set.
It should be remembered, however, that the communications in
the earlier sittings were by word of mouth, which, although the
easier and livelier and more interesting method, is not so con-
ducive to exact record as the writing plan.
The report aims at being a correct representation, but cannot be
regarded as verbally precise, since it necessarily suffers from defect
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. 141
frequentl}', and there is no guarantee against occasional mishearing.
But the chief fault is omission of connecting words and such like,
resulting in a jerkiness of style not necessarily characteristic.
With regard to the influence of the medium herself upon the
messages, there is in all cases bound to be a certain amount of
sophistication attributable to this cause, and some hesitation and con-
fusion, owing to the cropping up from time to time, or perhaps the
constant superposition, of idiosyncracies of the medium herself. In
other words, the impersonation, however good, cannot be perfect;
and this we say with the more confidence now that we have the
same control purporting to communicate through different mediums.
The manner, and even partly the matter, is coloured by the medium ;
so that, for instance, we have to speak of the Piper-Myers, the
Verrall-Myers, and the Holland-Myers, as to some extent different
people, though also to a great extent similar.
For instance, one and the same sentiment or fact can be expressed
through Mrs. Verrall by classical language and allusions, through
Mrs. Holland with some poetic composition and literary style, and
through Mrs. Piper in simple English.
If a child were the medium, it would be reasonable to expect
some childish turns of phrase ; whereas the brain of a scholar natur-
ally furnishes an instrument of greater power and scope.
The communications which immediately follow are all from the
Piper Gurney, or, as Mr. Piddington denotes it, from GurneyP.
A few episodes are said by the control to be private, he did not
want them told to others or published, and accordingly these are
perforce omitted. They were of an identifying nature, and conveyed
information as to facts previously unknown to me ; I was per-
mitted to mention them to Mr. Myers, and they turned out to be
true. I am informed however that they had already come out in
the presence of sitters aware of the facts ; so that they had not
the evidential importance that might attach to them if they had been
mentioned a first time while only one who was ignorant of them was
present. Of some I have no record, and these I have practically for-
gotten. But I remember this, —that I learnt in this way more about
the life and thoughts of Edmund Gurney than I had known in his
lifetime. My acquaintance with him was not intimate, and its history
can be briefly given. It began in the early seventies, when in order to
proceed with his study of Sound, he came as a senior student and
sat on the benches of University College, London, to listen to my
regular college lectures on Mechanics and Physics, in classes
142 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
with which I was entrusted at that time by Professor Carey
Foster. He was good enough to strike up a friendship with his
youthful instructor, and I occasionally lunched with him, and once
or twice saw him in his rooms at Clarges Street.
The talk gradually turned upon psychical matters, concerning
which I was—as were most young physicists in those days
entirely sceptical and completely ignorant. Though he did not
let it consume the whole of his time, I recollect that Mr. Gurney
was even then at work on systematic preparation for the book,
Phantasms of the Living, and that his room was strewn with papers
and printed slips. Before long he introduced me to his friend,
F. W. H. Myers, who, like Mr. Gurney, was patience itself in trying
to inspire my superficial and dogmatic materialism with an element
of larger sense.
A few years after all this the S.P.R. was founded, but I was not
one of the original members. I joined, I suppose, after the Liverpool
thought-transference experiments in 1883 and 1884. I had migrated
to Liverpool in 1881, and remained there till 1900. Professor Barrett
I had of course known all along as a physicist, and in the eighties
we had some conversations on thought-transference in connexion with
the Liverpool experiments, in some of which I took part, and on
which I reported in the Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 2.
Until 1884 I was unconvinced of the possibility of telepathy;
and not till the end of 1889 did the evidence for survival of
personality beyond bodily death make any serious impression upon
me, though I recognised the force of some of the arguments
employed. The subject did not trouble me however. I knew that
the facts must be in one direction or another, and there I was
content to leave them ; under the belief that real knowledge was
impossible. So if anyone represents that I was keenly anxious to
believe and be assured on this subject, at this or any other time,,
they are unintentionally representing a falsehood. 1
I did not get to know Myers really well till about this date, and
it was later still before I gained any genuine acquaintance with
Henry Sidgwick. Before his death, Myers had become perhaps my
most intimate friend; but Edmund Gurney died in 1888, at a time
when I was entirely absorbed in orthodox physical experiments and
theory, in connexion with electric waves.
1
See, for instance, some anonymous gossip quoted by Mr. Edward Clodd in,
his book called Pioneers of Evolution, page 66.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. 143>
Old Piper Sittings.
Sitting on evening of 21 Dec, 1889, with Mrs. Piper.
0. J. L. alone.
The first mention of Gurney in my sittings occurred on Saturday
evening, Dec. 21, 1889, at a sitting which I had alone, taking notes
as best I could ; for at that time it was the custom for the medium
to hold one of the sitter's hands. It is only very partially reported
on page 493, Vol. 6.
After the messages already reported, ending, "It is the one who*
doesn't paint who is married," Phinuit went on :
You have got a mighty good life before you. You are
going to be very rich. I wish I had your life. It is
through your work. There will be a change of work
in two years, and you will go out of present sur-
roundings.
[This is quoted as an example of the style of some of
Phinuit's humorous attempts at fortune-telling predic-
tions, to which every now and then he shamelessly
resorts when gravelled for lack of matter (Cf. top of
p. 497 of Vol. 6, also p. 525 and elsewhere).]
(A photograph of my late Demonstrator Mr. Clark was
here handed in.)
0. J. L. Can you tell who this is 1
Well I will try. Edmund will help me. A vessel burst
in his stomach, and he passed out very suddenly. He
was away, not at home. A clever fellow and a great
help. He fell. . Edmund sends his love to you.
(A letter from Edmund Gurney was handed in.)
0. J. L. Can you read this 1
Oh, I don't know. I can't read it word for word. I can
tell you what it is about.
It has got Edmund's influence on it.
So had that picture. Had you kept it with Edmund's
letter?
144 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
O. J. L. Well it had been in the same pocket.
You must not do that. You mix things up if you do that.
No, I can't read this letter. It is something about
some books, and asking you about something. There is
an illness described in it and a person in trouble. It
is about an experiment or for a meeting, and about
some experiments. No, I give it up.
[Here the personality seemed to change and to represent
Edmund Gurney, He spoke so naturally that for a
time I forgot to take notes, but nothing evidential
was said. The notes go on thus:—
They are henceforward very imperfect, i.e. fragmentary.]
I am here, I etherially exist. I wrote to you about some
books for the Society.
I have seen a little woman that's a medium, a true medium.
I have written to Myers using her hand. I did do it,
I, Edmund Gurney, I.
O. J. L. Is this a medium here now ?
Yes, she's a medium. Very few you will get like Dr.
Phinuit. He is not all one would wish, but he is
all right.
You are Lodge. I know you. Lodge we shall beat them
yet. There is no death, only a shadow and then
Light. Experiment and observation are indispensable.
We have to use some method like this to communicate.
My extant notes here come to an abrupt end, the lower half
of the paper being cut off, presumably because something concern-
ing Gurney's private affairs was said which I was asked not to
remember.
At any rate I do not remember what it was. One of the ad-
vantages of a lone sitting like this is that the controls seem to
feel freer, and more willing to enter upon more private, and
therefore more really evidential, subjects, than when a reporter is
present. Before closing we discussed Phinuit's powers a little, and
I told the Gurney control that I had arranged a special clair-
voyant experiment which I wanted to try with the Phinuit control.
That is to say I wanted to see if he could read some letters
which, in that grouping, were not and never had been in anybody's
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. 145
mind,—namely some cardboard letters pinched by me at random
from a child's alphabet box and forthwith sealed up. I doubted
if it was of much use, but wanted to try in order to test for clair-
voj^ance as against telepathy. The voice said :
By all means try. All these experiments must be tried.
0. J. L. Well, tell him it's very important.
Yes. Here he is coming back. (Change of control.)
Now then, what is it you want of me '?
0. J. L. I want you, doctor, to tell me what's in this box, please.
No one knows.
Give me a pencil (putting the box on top of medium's
head).
A pencil was handed to him and he wrote on cardboard,
slowly,
LK Q U C N
and then dropped the pencil.
I am getting too weak.
Try me earlier on another time. I am going now.
This was the end of the sitting, and Mrs. Piper speedily came to.
I may as well repeat that this clairvoyance experiment, as reported
in Note B on p. 494 of Vol. 6, entirely failed. The letters were
not read. It is true that this matter has nothing whatever to do
with the Gurney episode, but I think it better to exhibit con-
tinuity between the portion previously reported and the portion
which I now report more fully. So I give a little bit at the
beginning and a little bit at the end, each time.
I have no particular comment to make upon this sitting ; the
published parts of which are not remarkable.
Specimens of unverijiable communications.
People constantly ask why the communicators do not deal with
subjects that are important, or which give us new information. I
see no reason to suppose that we are here in contact with a trust-
worthy source of general information, or that the controls know more
about things than we do. When an opportunity is occasionally given
for miscellaneous conversation, the following is the kind of thin"
K
146 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
obtained —at least in the case of this medium at that time ; and it
is not encouraging, nor does it make us greedy for more. It must
be remembered that it was obtained twenty years ago, and that it
is rather exceptional ; so if any critic selects this rubbishy portion
as a fair specimen of what comes through under ordinary circum-
stances, he will be criticising unfairly.
The sensory nervous system is the foundation of all
etherial substance recall mundane
experience. the sensory nervous system is a medium
through which the etherial intellect like mine must
operate. But you must be good. Immorality, im-
purity, never approaches the spirit world. There are
two spheres, and the good are separated from the bad.
Is it not overcrowded 1
No, it is a spacious place. The body is only a covering
for the etherial to grow in. It is difficult to know
things when in it.
Is evolution true ?
Yes, God is in Nature, all Nature is God. We are a
reflexion of God. Don't give up a good thing. The
world will know, and our Society will know, that there
is no death. I didn't know. I would have given
anything to have had you come and speak to me, if
you had passed away first, as I am speaking to you
now.
Is it good to be where you are 1
Yes, it is good,—the only good thing.
Life in material world is beautiful.
Marriage is beautiful, but this is far better.
Is there no marriage ?
No, no, Swedenborg was all wrong.
Jesus Christ was right ; he knew.
He was a reflexion of God.
More than any one else 1
Yes, more than any one else. And why 1
Because he was purer and better in every way .....
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. 147
All this does not amount to much, and it would be quite easy
to suppress this portion ;
but, as it was at that time a part of the
phenomenon, it is thought fairer to quote a specimen of what could
be got when rein was given, as in this instance, to anything that
came. Usually unverifiable utterances of this kind were not
encouraged.
Here also I might insert the summary made by Dr. Hodgson in
1897 of what the communicators themselves say as to what appears
to them to be occurring on the physical side while they are com-
municating. Their statements, he says, may be put in brief general
terms as follow (I quote from Vol. 13, p. 400).
"We all have bodies composed of '
luminiferous ether' enclosed
in our flesh and blood bodies. The relation of Mrs. Piper's etherial
body to the etherial world, in which the 'communicators' claim to
dwell, is such that a special store of peculiar energy is accumulated
in connection with her organism, and this appears to them as '
a
light.' Mrs. Piper's etherial body is removed by them, and her
ordinary body appears as a shell filled with this 'light.' Several
'
communicators ' may be in contact with this light at the same
time.
" There are two chief '
masses ' of it in her case, one in connection
with the head, the other in connection with the right arm and
hand. Latterly, that in connection with the hand has been 'brighter'
than that in connection with the head. If the 'communicator' gets
into contact with the 'light' and thinks his thoughts, they tend to
be reproduced by movements in Mrs. Piper's organism. Very few
can produce vocal effects, even when in contact with the '
light ' of
the head, but practically all can produce writing movements when
in contact with the 'light' of the hand. Upon the amount and
brightness of this '
light,' aeteris paribus, the communications depend.
When Mrs. Piper is in ill-health, the '
light ' is feebler, and the
communications tend to be less coherent.
" It also gets used up during a sitting, and when it gets dim
there is a tendency to incoherence even in otherwise clear com-
municators. In all cases, coming into contact with this '
light ' tends
to produce bewilderment, and if the contact is continued too long,
or the '
light ' becomes very dim, the consciousness of the communicator
tends to lapse completely."
Needless to say that in thus making a jirtcis of a number of
statements, Dr. Hodgson is not to be supposed as in any degree
vouching for their accuracy, nor even for their reasonable sense
148 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
he goes on, in fact, to give his own independent view of the matter
—but such statements are interesting and deserve study as part
of the phenomenon. They must certainly represent a subjective or
dream-like imjjression of some true and ultimately intelligible kind.
As a further example of non-evidential statement I quote a state-
ment made about the difficulty of recalling old memories, which I
find among some reports made to me by Mr. Dorr of remarks made
to a lady during a sitting in America in 1906 (cf. pp. 202-5).
(The Hodgson control communicating by the voice.)
Sitter. I want you to tell me something that you do on your side.
You saw Mr. Dorr yesterday. Now what have you done
since you saw him 1
Oh, Myers and I, we have formed a society over here. I
suppose you know that ?
Sitter. Yes.
And we are investigating the conditions that constitute a
medium, and I have been studying that very carefully
since I was here yesterday, and that is the work in
which I am engaged now. I am also looking up mediums
on the earthly side and trying to find those through
whom it would be safe to speak. Is that clear 1
Sitter. Perfectly.
(Rector communicating.) Oh, I hear his voice just as plain
as I ever heard anything. It is very clear. Some things,
when dissolution takes place, go so completely out of
one's mind that it takes time to recall those incidents.
The impressions and thoughts in the mortal mind are
removed when the spirit is released, temporarily. It takes
time to recall those memories. Is that clear 1
Incidentally, and as a continuation of non-evidential matter, I
will also quote a little bit of Phinuitesque assertion about Christmas
day which was previously omitted from the report on page 516,
Vol. 6. I insert it now because it is not now my object to deal
with verifiable incidents alone, which by this time are numerous,
but to give an idea of the manner and method of the whole
business—especially as it was in the old days.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. 149
The sitting opens with a curious episode, characteristic of the
relation between the controls and the medium. They sometimes
speak of 'seeing a woman going away' as they come in. A new
control often does not know who she is, or what she has to do with
the business. For instance, on page 453, Vol. 6, a '
Mr. Wilson ' is
supposed to be controlling, and to him I am explaining the
desirability of eliminating the hypothesis of telepathy from the
sitter " whose mind might be influencing that of the medium "
when he replies :
I see your idea, but what do you mean by the '
medium ' 1
That woman I saw just now 1
?
0. J. L. Yes.
Phinuit of course knows her well. Sometimes the control
speaks of having tried to grasp the 'spirit of the light' and
give it a message as it was returning to its body. (See p. 96 of
J. G. P.'s Report, Vol. 22.) Whether the same kind of thing
happens sometimes in pathological cases of multiple personality I am
not sure.
Evening of 25th Dec, 1889. Control at first Phinuit.
Present—0. J. L. anil Professor Alfred Lodge.
Captain, do you know that as I came I met the medium
going out, and she's crying. Why is she crying ?
[" Captain " was the humorous nickname employed by Phinuit
to designate 0. J. L.]
0. J. L. Well the fact is she's separated from her children for a few
days, and to-day being Christmas day she is feeling
rather low about it.
Christmas day ! Do you think we don't know that 1
O. J. L. Oh do you 1
Certainly, it's the day Christ was born isn't it, and he
always appears to us on that day.
0. J. L. Do you not often see him ?
No, he's much higher. I have only seen him two or three
times. He's very high up.
150 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
I have got your mother's influence very strong : she's been
talking to Edmund Gurney—a nice fellow he is —she's
very fond of you ; he'll tell her all about you. She has
got on a good way since she passed out. Do you know
what we mean by Christ's appearing 1
0. J. L. No.
We have to express it in your language. He comes to-day
with a basket of flowers, forget-me-nots, and gives them
to the little children. They are awfully pleased when
they see him coming. (Cf. a somewhat similar statement
on p. 545, Vol. 6.)
How are you Alfred 1 I've your mother's influence strong.
[And so on as already reported, p. 516, ending,]
Convince yourself, and let others do the same. We are all
liable to make mistakes, but you can see for yourself.
Here's a gentleman wants to speak to you.
(Phinuit now seemed to leave, and another control, speaking
in a more educated voice, took his place ; the change
taking place with a little uncertainty and difficulty
as to how to manage it, and a seeming colloquy
between the departing and entering controls, —Phinuit
giving sotto voce instructions. After the change was
over, the voice said)
Lodge, how are you ? I tell you Edmund Gurney is living,
not dead. Edmund Gurney that's me : you know me
don't you ?
0. J. L. Yes Gurney, delighted to see you again.
Don't give it up Lodge. Cling to it, it's the best thing
you have. It's coarse in the beginning but it can be
ground down fine. You'll know best and correct (?) It
can only come through a trance. You have to put her
in a trance. You've got to do it that way to make
yourself known.
0. J. L. Is it bad for the medium 1
It's the only way Lodge ; in one sense it's bad, but in another
it's good. It is her work. If I take possession of the
medium's body, and she goes out, then I can use her
organism to tell the world important truths. There is
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. 151
an infinite power above us. Lodge believe it fully,
infinite over all, most marvellous.
One can tell a medium she's like a ball of light. You look
as dark and material as possible, but we find two or
three lights shining. It's like a series of rooms with
candles at one end. Must use analogy to express it.
When you need a light you use it, when you have
finished you put it out. They are like transparent
windows to see through.
Lodge, it's a puzzle. It's a puzzle to us here in a way
though we understand it better than you. I work at
it hard. I do. I'd give anything I possess to find out.
I don't care for material things now, our interest is
much greater. I am studying hard how to communi-
cate ; it's not easy. But it's only a matter of a short
time before I shall be able to tell the world all sorts
of things through one medium or another. —Who's that 1
0. J. L. It's my brother. He's taking notes.
Make experiments, observe, record, Lodge. Observation and
experiment are indispensable.
I have seen your father, but am not very well acquainted
with him.
I suppose people thought I was well, but I wasn't. No, far
from it. Lodge if I could take the same body and be
the same as before I wouldn't take it. I would far
rather be as I am than as I was.
What was that letter you shewed the Doctor 1 [i.e. Phinuit]
0. J. L. Oh, one you wrote to me about taking the chair for you at
Liverpool.
I have met an aunt of yours ; was introduced. A delightful
character. Not had the advantages many have, but
thoroughly good and sensible.
0. J. L. How is it they see their things 1
I don't know, there is something about articles worn by
spirits which retains their personality (?) and a spirit
controlling a medium is sensitive to such. In nine cases
out of ten they will recognise their things ; it doesn't
come from your mind.
152 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
0. J. L. Then it's not ordinary thought transference.
No, it's not that. Investigate. You can verify with patience.
From time to time you will hear from me and I will
advise you.
I met a lady in America—a Mrs. Dorr. [A lady well
known to Mrs. Piper, but I did not happen to know
the name then. 0. J. L.~\
0. J. L. Daw ?
No, Dorr, D (
o,r,r, a very nice lady; very intellectual spiritual
and good. I had a long talk with her, and through her
I found the medium. She is a medium. These people
are links between the material and spirit worlds. Their
spiritual body is stronger than their material body.
The light is given to them and to us. Using her
organism may be bad for her in one sense, but not
in another. She will never allow herself to be dis-
honest. Sometimes she is not well. If the physical
is ill and depressed you cannot come easily.
Where's Myers
1
? Give him my love. I want to help him.
Lodge, when I passed out at first I didn't know who
I was, nor where I was. I hunted about for my friends
and for my body. Soon however my sister welcomed
me. Three of them, all drowned. If I see Myers I
will talk to him. No spirit in the spirit world is more
anxious to let friends know than I was.
[Some private matter here.] Don't mention this.
Tell Myers if you like.
Myers is my confidential friend.
There is nothing I wouldn't have him know.
Kate is my wife my sister is Ellen, [abbreviated]
Lodge keep up your courage ; there is a quantity to hope for
yet. Hold it up for a time. Don't be in a hurry. Get
facts ; no matter what they call you, go on investigating.
Test to fullest. Assure yourself, then publish. It will
be all right in the end—no question about it. It's
true.
0. J. L. You have seen my Uncle Jerry, haven't you 1
Yes. I met him a little while ago—a very clever man—had
an interesting talk with him.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. 153
0. J. L. What sort of person is this Dr. Phinuit?
[It is noteworthy that all the Controls treat Phinuit as a
genuine person of whom they have to speak circumspectly
when he is likely to be able to overhear what they are
saying or read what they are writing. Compare, for
instance, statements about him made by 6. P. in the
Hodgson Eeport; footnote to page 369, Vol. 13.]
In the present instance the Gurney Control replied to my question
thus :
Dr. Phinuit is a peculiar type of man ; he goes about con-
tinually and is thrown in with everybody. He is eccentric
and quaint but good hearted. I wouldn't do the things he
does for anything. He lowers himself sometimes ; it's a great
pity. He has very curious ideas about things and people,
he receives a great deal about people from themselves (?).
And he gets expressions and phrases that one doesn't care
for, vulgar phrases he picks up by meeting uncanny
people through the medium. These things tickle him
and he goes about repeating them. He said to me the
other day '
Mr. Gurney what you think a gentleman said
to me the other day : he said " put that in your pipe and
smoke it Dr."' He picks up this sort of thing and it
tickles him. He has to iuterview a great number of
people and has no easy berth of it. A high type of
man couldn't do the work he does. But he is a good-
hearted old fellow. Good-bye Lodge. Here's the Doctor
coming.
0. J. L. Good-bye Gurney. Glad to have had a chat with you.
(The Control here changes back again.)
This [ring] belongs to your Aunt.
Your Uncle Jerry tells me to ask . . .
By the way, do you know Mr. Gurney 's been here ; did you
hear him 1
0. J. L. Yes, I've had a long talk with him.
wants you to ask Uncle Bob about his cane.
[And so on as already reported on page 517, Vol. 6.]
The Gurney control appeared only once more in that year 1889,
on the evening of Dec. 26, and speedily disappeared, —as we were, so
154 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
to speak, engaged. It seems to have been the third sitting held on
the same day, and the last before Mrs. Piper went on to London.
This crowding of three sittings into one day now seems extraordinary,
and cannot have been wise. However, they were by no means bad
ones—in fact they were distinctly good.
The following is the report : it has already been given on p. 524,
Vol. 6.
Evening of 26th Dec, 1889. Present—0. J. L., M. L., and
Mr. and Mrs. Thompson.
(Dr. Phinuit speaking and reporting in the first person.)
I could almost come back and die over again to see you.
You tell Mary that her sister Isabel still lives •
tell her
she has done nobly ; tell her William and I are together.
That lazy gardener !
(Then the voice and manner changed to that of the Gurney
control.)
Don't give up a good thing, Lodge. . . . Who is here ?
0. J. L. This is my wife.
How do you do, Mrs. Lodge (shaking hands).
I remember having tea with you once.
[It was true that Mr. Gurney had done so.]
0. J. L. (Introducing) Mr. and Mrs. Thompson.
Yes, I remember you, I think. [They had once met.]
Good-bye, Lodge ; don't divulge my secrets.
0. J. L. No, all right ;
good-bye.
(Then Dr. Phinuit appeared again and said to Mr. T.)
Ted is asking about George.
Don't forget to tell him I asked about him, and send my love.
[And so on as reported on page 524, Vol. 6.]
The point of this short episode is the sudden and natural stoppage of
the conversation directly the control realises that strangers are
present. That and the introductions that followed were all just as
if the Gurney control were a person really present.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. 155
Mrs. Piper returned to Liverpool, from London, at the end of
January, 1890, and we held sittings again until it was time for her
to depart to America.
The Gurney control appeared again on Feb. 3rd, and the following
is the report.
At a sitting with Mrs. Piper, on Monday Evening, 3 February,
1890. Present—0. J. L. and E. C. L., afterivards Mr. and Mrs.
Tlwmpson.
This sitting began with conversation with Phinuit and messages
to Miss E. C. Lodge, who was present, and a final communication
also from "Mr. Wilson", as reported on page 552, Vol. 6. (It
may be interesting now to record that this " Mr. Wilson," junior,
there spoken of as travelling, was my friend the Rev. John Watson
—afterwards known as Ian Maclaren —at that time on a tour in
Egypt.) Then Phinuit suddenly said, " Here's Mr. Gurney."
(Thereupon the control appeared to change, the impression
somehow conveyed being very much as if Phinuit were
leaving and another coming in his place. The voice also
became different and more educated than before. No
longer was I called '
Captain ', nor were people's relations
and personal affairs any more regarded as objects of
interest.)
Here's Mr. Gurney —(change of control).
Lodge don't loose hold of a good thing. I could have done
much for the Society if I had lived, but I can do still
more now. It is wonderfully difficult to communicate.
All the time I've been here I have only found two
mediums beside this one. More people might be mediums,
but many won't when they can.
0. J. L. What constitutes a medium ?
Not too much spirituality and not too much animalism, not
the highest people and not the lowest. Sympathetic and
not too self-conscious, able to let their minds be given up
to another—that sort of person—easily influenced. Many
could, but their pride and a sense of self comes in and
spoils it.
156 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
0. J. L. Gurney, what about those table-tilting and physical things 1
Is there anything in them ?
Mostly fraud. The rest electricity. A person's nerves are
doing they don't know what. They are often not
conscious when they move things.
0. J. L. It's like automatic writing then 1
Something. Often the tilts and noises are made by them
when under the control of some other spirit, and then the
message may be genuine. Trance things and automatic
writing are good. Often good. Other things sometimes,
but mostly fraud.
0. J. L. Can things be moved without contact ?
No. All bosh.
0. J. L. Then that Eglinton writing, with bits of pencil untouched 1
Trickery Lodge. Not worth a thought. Most of this I have
gone into, and it's as false as that elf, that fiend I might
say. She bewitched me once. What's her name, that
woman who smoked 1
0. J. L. Blavatsky 1
That's her name.
0. J. L. And what about those Indian tricks ? Mango and basket
tricks 1
I do not know about the mango, don't remember it ; but you
mean that cutting up a child and flinging its legs and
arms about.
O. J. L. Yes, that's one of them.
It's a veil Lodge, an etherial veil between the thing and the
spectators. They can't see what really happens. It's a
delusion, it's done through ether. It's not true spiritualism,
it's a gap in ether p] But true spiritualism has been real
ever since the first life that had any humanity in it.
What are you, Lodge ?
0. J. L. I don't know.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. lo7
You've not made it out. You are a reflexion of Christ, and
Christ's a reflexion of God. We praise and bless him
without tiring. Lodge, I wouldn't be back for anything.
I was not happy, and I was not well. Not at all
well.
Lodge, I told Myers what I told you. It's secret.
0. J. L. Yes I know, I am forgetting it.
That's right. Myers is the soul of honour, a real friend, a
true man. I told it you as a test. Forget it.
0. J. L. Eight, I have promised you before.
Yes, I know. Who is this?
0. J. L. It's my sister, a young girl.
Oh ;
pleased to make your acquaintance.
I didn't meet you I think.
E. C. L. No, I never saw you.
Glad to see you now. I wrote a little book once, "The
Power of Sound." Did you ever read it 1
E. C. L. No.
You might by chance be interested in it.
Lodge I will shew you some verses I have written up here
some day.
Phinuit will be coming back soon.
He's a good old man. He has a hard place. I wouldn't
do the work he does for anything. Seeing all manner
of people and hunting up their friends, and often he has
hard work to persuade them that they are really
wanted.
0. J. L. Is he reliable \
Not perfectly, he is not a bit infallible. He mixes things
terribly sometimes.
He does his best; he's a good old man but he does get
confused, and when he can't hear distinctly he fills it
up himself. He does invent things occasionally, he cer-
tainly does. Sometimes he has very hard work.
158 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
0. J. L. Are his medical prescriptions any good 1
Oh, he's a shrewd doctor. He knows his business thoroughly.
He can see into people, and is very keen on their
complaints.
Yes, he is good in that way, very good.
0. J. L. Can he see ahead at all 1 Can any one 1
I can't. I haven't gone into that.
I think Phinuit can a iittle sometimes. He can do wonder-
ful things ; he has studied these things a good deal
he can do many things that I can't do. He can look
up people's friends and say what they are doing some-
times in an extraordinary way. But he is far from
being infallible.
0. J. L. The Thompsons are waiting in next room. Shall I call them
in 1
The Thompsons? Oh, I know, I met them at your house
once at dinner I think. No, I don't specially want to
see them.
Well Lodge I must be going. Good-bye. Stick to a good
thing and don't give it up. Go on with the investi-
gation. I will help you. This will be the thing of the
future, and will increase people's happiness. More
mediums will arise, and communication will be easier.
Good-bye.
(Here the medium seemed to sleep -a few moments, and
then woke up again in the Phinuit manner, putting out
hand and feeling sitter's head.)
Eh, what. Oh, yes. All right. [This was internal colloquy.]
Look here, Mr. Gurney has been here ; he told me to express
his regret that he had not said good-bye to Miss
Lodge.
E. C. L. Oh it doesn't matter a bit.
I'm to tell him that, am I. Very well.
(Mr. and Mrs. T. had come in.)
Here's Dr. Thompson [etc. as reported in Vol. 6, page 553].
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. 159
Again it was the dramatic character of the speaking that was
impressive —rather than the things said. The conversation was
carried on in an exceedingly easy and natural manner. I attach no
importance to what is said concerning physical phenomena : it does
not pretend to represent more than an individual opinion, whoever
the individual may be ; but it seemed to me interesting to ask this
sort of question, to see what would be said.
The casual reference of unknown phenomena, part to fraud the
rest to "Electricity," though quite common with uneducated people,
was especially unworthy of Edmund Gurney, and not in the least
the sort of thing he would have said to me when alive. In
Phantasms of the Living he writes humorously of the excellent
people who are ready to jump lightly from the hypothesis of
"fraud" to that of "electricity", and suggests that they are equally
innocent of either form of energy ! But the little friendly speeches
to my sister were quite appropriate to Mr. Gurney, and so especi-
ally was the readiness to depart the instant he heard that the
Thompsons were waiting to come in.
" The Thompsons 1 Oh, I know. I met them at your
house once at dinner I think. No, I don't specially
want to see them. Well, Lodge, I must be going.
Good-bye."
Not that he had any objection to them ;
but, besides the dislike
of keeping anyone waiting, he had the natural unwillingness of the
man of sensitive temperament to be thrown with strangers needlessly.
It will have been observed that several times in the record I have
emphasised the change of control. I have done so all the more ex-
plicitly because now it seems a comparatively extinct, or at any rate a
less pronounced, feature. The whole business of 'control' seemed more
difficult then, and it is possible that a personality really changes now
without our noticing the change so much. Then, however, the change
of control was a distinct operation, sometimes appearing to be really
a difficult one, that could not be managed in a hurry ; and once I
remember it occupied a minute or two, with a muttered internal
colloquy going on, as if there were a tangle or a hitch somewhere.
The naturalness of the change in manner and memory was very
pronounced. Even a reader can perceive that; but a reader may
think that this is due to the perfection of conscious acting, while a
sitter of any experience will hardly think that. The fluctuation of
memory is certainly not artificial, it is a genuine change of personality
IGO Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
—whatever that may be. People may legitimately hold that the
change is some kind of subliminal modification—that depends on
the view they take as to the meaning and nature of control in
general —but it is unmistakably analogous to multiple personality,
whether that be ever due to control by actual possession or not.
Undoubtedly actual control or telergic possession used to be claimed
for some of the more experienced communicators. For instance, at
a sitting on the morning of February 3rd, 1890 (as reported on
p. 550, Vol. 6), I asked for a certain person to come and control
instead of only sending messages, and was told that it was too
difficult. I pleaded 1;
Mr. G-urney does." To which Phinuit replied,
"You are greedy. Yes, Mr. Gurney does, but Mr. Gurney is a
scientific man, who has gone into these things. He comes and
turns me out sometimes. It would be a very narrow place into
which Mr. Gurney couldn't get."
The appearance of direct control is even now preserved, and at
voice sittings held in 1906, after Hodgson's death, must have seemed
rather realistic. Moreover, the Hodgson control often says that the
conditions are stuffy and confusing, and that he must go away to
get air sometimes,—the extracts on pp. 134 and 236 suggest that he
and Rector were interchanging places ; —and yet, when questioned,
" Hodgson " disclaims the exertion of immediate control.
The following, for instance, is an extract from a sitting with Mr.
Dorr, who is speaking to the Hodgson control.
G. B. D. I wanted to ask whether you ever controlled the organism
of the light yourself, or whether it is wholly done by
Rector.
It is wholly done by Rector and it will continue to be. I
shall take no part in that.
G. B. D. Then it is he who is speaking 1
It is Rector who is speaking and he speaks for me. I have
no desire to take Rector's place. I trust him implicitly
and absolutely.
G. B. D. And he constantly reports for every one ?
Every one. There is no question about that. In the first
place he is more competent to do it, he understands the
conditions better than any individual spirit; he is fully
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter II. 161
capable and is under the constant direction of Imperator.
When I finished with the conditions in the earthly life
I finished with ray control over the light.
So it would appear that the changes of control claim to be now
usually dramatic rather than real.
But, as said before, these dramatic changes of personality are much
less marked and less frequent features in the sittings of to-day.
They still appear to occur occasionally, but they are not so striking
and vivid as they used to be.
It was on the strength of the experience gained by a number of
such transitions of personality that I wrote in 1890 my introduction
as printed on p. 453, Vol. 6, from which I will now quote a small
portion :
" On reading the record it will be apparent that while '
Phinuit
frequently speaks in his own person, relating things which he
himself discovers by what I suppose we must call ostensible
clairvoyance, sometimes he represents himself as in communication
—not always quite easy and distinct communication, especially
at first, but in communication—with one's relatives and friends
who have departed this life. The messages and communi-
cations from these persons are usually given through Phinuit
as a reporter. And he reports sometimes in the third person,
sometimes in the first. Occasionally, but very seldom, Phinuit
seems to give up his place altogether to the other personality,
friend or relative, who then communicates with something of
his old manner and individuality ;
becoming often impressive and
realistic. This last I say is rare, but with one or two person-
ages it occurs, subject to reservations to be mentioned directly
and when it does, Phinuit does not appear to know what has
been said. It is quite as if he in his turn evacuated the body,
just as Mrs. Piper had done, while a third personality uses it
for a time. The voice and mode of address are once more
changed, and more or less recall the voice and manner of the
person represented as communicating.
" The communications thus obtained, though they show traces
of the individuality of the person represented as speaking, are
frequently vulgarised ; and the speeches are more commonplace,
and so to say cheaper, than what one would suppose likely
from the person himself. It can, of course, be suggested that
the necessity of working through the brain of a person not
L
162 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
exceptionally educated may easily be supposed capable of
dulling the edge of refinement, and of rendering messages
on abstruse subjects impossible."
End of the Owrney set.
CHAPTER III.
THE ISAAC THOMPSON CASE.
The next case I shall take will be that of the late Isaac C.
Thompson, F.L.S., for a long time my neighbour and friend in
Liverpool. His family made the acquaintance of Mrs. Piper during
her stay with me there, and had several sittings. They are specially
referred to on pages 455 and 523 of Vol. 6, and all the sittings
then held with them are fully reported (pp. 508, 523, 544, 553).
We owe them thanks for allowing the report to be printed without
reserve or anonymity. It is always more interesting when this
can be done ; and in practice it has been found that people of
a low order, who from mischief or malice might possibly cause
trouble and annoyance, are not sufficiently interested in our Pro-
ceedings to take any notice of them.
Excessive reticence, therefore, seems to be unnecessary ; and it was
on that basis that I drew up the whole of my 1889-90 report.
It must be understood that the wife of the above Isaac Thompson
has no connexion whatever with the (to S.P.R. members) better known
Mrs. Thompson, formerly of Hampstead, whom I shall have to
mention in some portions—especially in chapter IV. —of my report.
As an introduction to this set, I will first quote what I said for
the same purpose in 1890 as printed on p. 455, Vol. 6.
"One of the best sitters was my next-door neighbour, Isaac
C. Thompson, F.L.S., to whose name indeed, before he had
been in any way introduced, Phinuit sent a message purporting
to come from his father. Three generations of his and of his
wife's family living and dead (small and compact Quaker families)
were, in the course of two or three sittings, conspicuously men-
tioned, with identifying detail ; the main informant representing
himself as his deceased brother, a young Edinburgh doctor, whose
loss had been mourned some 20 years ago. The familiarity and
touchingness of the messages communicated in this particular
instance were very remarkable, and can by no means be repro-
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 163
duced in any printed report of the sitting. (Nos. 45, 50, 80,
81, 83, Vol. 6.) Their case is one in which very few mistakes
were made, the details standing out vividly correct, so that in
fact they found it impossible not to believe that their relatives
were actually speaking to them. This may sound absurd, but
it correctly represents the impression produced by a favourable
series of sittings, and it is for that reason that 1 mention it
now. Simple events occurring elsewhere during the sitting were
also detected by Dr. Phinuit in their case, better than in any
other I know of."
To this I have only to add that in 1906, when the recent series
of sittings was held, one of the three daughters, who in 1889 were
children, was married, and the son engaged ; that the grandmother,
alive in 1889, was now dead ; and I regret to say that Isaac
Thompson himself had suddenly died of an apoplectic seizure in his
own house on the 6th November, 1903.
The interest of the family at the present time therefore lay in
receiving communications if possible from him : and it is the episodes
connected with that very natural desire, and with the corresponding
appearance of an Isaac Thompson control, that I now proceed to
deal.
The first attempt at reaching this control through Mrs. Piper
occurred during a business visit of the son, Edwin Thompson, to
America; when Dr. Hodgson introduced him as a stranger—not by
name—to Mrs. Piper in trance at her house near Boston.
The effort was, I consider, unsuccessful ;
partly in all probability
owing to the inexperience of the sitter. The position is a very diffi-
cult one. He had had no previous experience of the sittings ; because
in 1889, when Mrs. Piper was in Liverpool, he was only 8 years
old. Besides, the character of the sittings had changed, and the
writing of Rector is not at all easy for a novice to read.
Suffice it therefore to say that Edwin Thompson was introduced
anonymously by Dr. Hodgson after the trance had begun on Monday,
11 December, 1905, at Boston. Messages purported to come from
his father, who seemed to wonder how his son had " managed to
find him." It was however a bad sitting and evidentially blank.
Undoubtedly there ought to have been another sitting without
delay, to clear up this unsatisfactory interview, which clearly estab-
lished nothing whatever ;
though I believe that Mr. E. Thompson
is on the whole more satisfied with it than these remarks of mine
would suggest ; but unfortunately he had to return to England
164 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
immediately, and at the next sitting he was not present. From
some points of view—however unfortunate it undoubtedly was—this
absence of any connecting link at ensuing sittings held by E.
Hodgson or others in America may be held to strengthen the
evidence, provided anything further was obtained—as it was ; since
now the facts could hardly be supposed to be obtained from the
Sitter ; American strangers naturally knowing nothing about
the family, and Dr. Hodgson being a complete stranger to
them all, except E. T., whose slight acquaintance he had only just
made.
The Sitter on 12 Dec. 1905, was a Miss M., who the same evening
sent a Special Delivery letter to Dr. Hodgson conveying a message
entrusted to her by the control George Pelham, She wrote:
"'There was a message for you,' George saith. 'Tell Hodgson
that name the gentleman in the spirit tried to get was
Agnes.' They said you would know, and it was the
day before."
This evidently refers to a name '
Anna ' attempted near the end
of the omitted sitting. The name Agnes is quite appropriate—being
the name of a daughter—and would have been jumped at by Edwin
Thompson if it had occurred while he was present as sitter. It is
noteworthy that Agnes was a name that Phinuit in the old days
had always boggled over, pretending he could not pronounce it
his best attempt being something like Annese or Anyese, see Vol. 6,
p. 478 ; but when taken unawares he could pronounce it well enough,
though he quickly changed it to Adnes before repeating it. See
p. 509.
On the next day, 13 Dec, 1905, Dr. Hodgson had a sitting; when
Eector, after script relating to other matters had been obtained, wrote
as reported below :
Sitting with Mrs. Pijjcr in America, 13 Dec, 1905. Present—
Dr. R. Hodgson cdonc.
Didst thou receive the message from George 1
R. H. Yes last night, thank }OU.
Have you the influences of the young man's father '/
R. H. (No.)
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III 165
It seems almost an injustice to us Dot to have met him
once more, as it would be a great help to the communi-
cator himself and all on our side.
R. H. I have explained all to him, and he will send me some
articles of his father after he returns to England. He
had no more time here, and is already on his way back.
He had no opportunity, before leaving home, to know
what he ought to do.
We U.D. and since the spirit is now waiting with our good
and faithful co worker George we shall after preliminary
matters are cleared up listen to what he hath to say.
R. H. I shall be glad.
That young man hath some significant light himself
(Scrawls were now made, ending "help me.")
R. H. Kindly tell me anything you wish.
I hold this bottle in my hand for identification. . . Bottle
. . in my hand.
R. H. Yes?
I had much to do with them when in your world.
R. H. Who are you ?
I used to be address [sic] Dr. I got.
[He had medical ambitions, and was partner in Thompson
& Capper. 0. J. L.]
(G. P. communicating). He is trying very hard. let him dream
it out H and he will be all right.
If he says anything clearly, congratulate him help him by
words of encouragement only, remember he has nothing
or no one except yourself to attract him here.
R. H. Yes. Is he the young man's father?
he is surely. Agnes is his daughter.
R. H. Yes ?
So he tells me.
166 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
R. H. Shall I talk to him?
Just encourage him a little by telling him who you are
etc. what your object is etc. It will help him greatly.
R. H. I will explain in answer to your enquiry who I am, —that I
am an old friend of Professor Lodge.
Lodge.
R. H. Yes.
What my old neighbour in Liv. .
(Excitement iu hand which cramps and twists about.)
calm friend (Between sp.)
Li . .
(Excitement stops the writing again.)
Drugs . .
Do not go.
Wait for me.
Liver stool.
R. H. Liverpool, you mean.
I say so.
I say so I say so I say so I say so [sic] . .
R. H. Yes I understand.
I say so.
Liverstool [Livestool ?]
R. H. Liver-pool.
Pool. R [R = Rector.]
I live I live I had three daughters one son [true]
(scrawls over sheet) . .
I want to help them all all all. God help me to help them
to understand that I am alive.
R. H. Yes?
I am confused [confussed] No doubt but I will be better soon
it is so hard to understand. You look so heavy, a black
cloud comes over you and I can scarcely see you. Do you
know me 1
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 167
R. H. I do not know you personally, but I now know your son who
came with me. Did you not see the lady in England with
Professor Lodge through whom you are now communi-
cating 1 I mean the light?
Oh I cannot tell you yet wait until I find my way about.
R. H. Don't . .
Tell me all about yourself first I want to get acquainted with
you.
R. H. Yes I will. Kindly listen.
I'll do my best, because I want to reach my family, very
very much.
R. H. I am interested in psychical work and sent Mrs. Piper many
years ago to England, —don't you remember seeing Mrs.
Piper?
Piper 1
R. H. Yes, and the . .
(Perturbation in hand.)
Oh yes I remember Piper. Was Mrs. Piper a Medium, an
American lady ?
R. H. Yes.
Oh yes Oh yes I do I do, but Pll find her out and come
to you if it is a possible thing. What is your name 1
R. H. My name is Hodgson, Richard Hodgson.
Can't you spell it for me 1
R. H. Hodgson.
Oh he is telling me thank you greatly.
Let me think.
I am so anxious to U.D. all about this then I can talk with
you.
R. H. Well, now, Mr . .
Where are wef I left my body some time ago. Where
are you 1
168 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
R. H. This is America where I am now.
America 1
R. H. Yes.
Well well that is very interesting to me.
You are in the hody 1
R. H. Yes I am.
Well, happy 1
R. H. Yes, both, thank you.
Splendid I begin to U.D.
R. H. Well now I will tell you more about myself and Lodge.
My wife is better thank you I am watching over them,
but my business will be better in time. I am trying to
take care of it for the children.
R. H. Yes. Mr . . did you [say] that there were three daughters
and one son in the body 1
Yes . .
My wife wore glasses . . spectacles we called them I think.
R. H. You mentioned her eye trouble.
Oh may be so, it was on my mind.
Who is the lady with my boy 1
R. H. I don't know anything about her.
No . .
Well I U.D. I had a business called . .
sounds like drugs.
I am helping all I can [this was evidently Rector.]
(Hand to Sp. 1.)
he must rest + . . [meaning Imperator.]
R. H. I shall be so pleased for you to come again and send any
messages you wish to your family.
he will return in a moment friend but I command him to go
for a moment. + R.
(Thump of hand.)
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 169
Mrs. . kindly
Your friend George is the very best helper we have.
R. H. I am very grateful to him.
Did his spirit seem any clearer 1 R.
R. H. Yes I should judge that he will probably be a very clear
communicator shortly.
talk with him in general when he comes whether he gives
you a chance or not. . . chance or not . . he is very
earnest but he does not U.D. yet our methods.
R. H. No.
I say I shall return and help you.
was very very glad I came.
R. H. Thank you very much.
I could not U.D. while you were here but I could see him
after you left. T
R. H. I understand.
Waking Stage.
(During the waking stage Mrs. Piper said)
. . Thompson [sic] . . with you all.
[This was the first time the name had been mentioned.]
Before I let you go . . you must take this over to Mr.
Hodgson.
Tell him . .
R. H. "Tell him"?
Tell Mrs. Thompson I'm very glad to be here. It is better
so. I am grateful for all God has done to help me.
. . the truth will find its way.
Farewell, fare thee well . . peace . . .
(Pause.)
There was two gentlemen resembling each other. One was
George, the other was another man looked something
like him.
170 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
This is a great improvement on what had been obtained at
the sitting before, and indicates considerable anxiety on the part
of the Isaac Thompson control to manifest himself, since this time
he had to overcome the difficulty of talking to a complete stranger;
and save for the mention of my name as a common friend of Hodgson
and himself, it is doubtful if anything could have been got. The
excitement which the hand displays, as here at the mention of
Lodge and Liverpool, is characteristic. On such occasions it twists
and squirms about and frequently breaks the point of the pencil by
pressure against the paper. It is as if the nerves conveyed too strong
a stimulus to the muscles, so that until the excitement abates no
writing can go on.
The bottles and drugs mentioned are symbolic of his profession.
(See p. 525, Vol. 6, and cf. a similar case near foot of page 554,
Vol. 6.) The things said are all true and appropriate.
One of the most curious episodes is the way in which Mrs. Piper's
name is introduced. R. Hodgson says, in order to introduce
himself,
R. H. I am interested in psychical work and sent Mrs. Piper
many years ago to England, —don't you remember seeing
Mrs. Piper?
Piper 1
R. H. Yes, and the . .
(Perturbation in hand.)
Oh yes I remember Piper. Was Mrs. Piper a Medium an
American lady ?
R. H. Yes.
Oh yes oh yes I do I do, but I'll find her and come to you
if it is a possible thing. What is your name 1
R. H. My name is Hodgson, Richard Hodgson.
Can't you spell it for me 1
R. H. Hodgson.
Oh he is telling me thank you greatly."
The perturbation in hand thus begins again when the name Piper
is remembered, and then the Thompson control speaks of her as a
Lvni.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 171
medium he had known, and says he will try to find her now in
order to communicate.
When it is remembered that the whole thing is being obtained
through Mrs. Piper's body, the curiosity of the position is obvious.
The sentence " oh he is telling me, thank you greatly " signifies that
whereas the Thompson control had been trying to understand with
difficulty what Dr. Hodgson was saying, he was now being told on
on his own side by G. P., whom he thanks—all this by-play being,
now as often, automatically recorded by the writing hand.
The way in which he receives the information that Hodgson
is in America, —where in 1884 Isaac Thompson had been with me
alone for nine weeks, —is also very natural ; and his enquiry as to
whether Hodgson is a living person or not is curious.
It is quite true that Mrs. Thompson wore spectacles, though of
course this was within Mrs. Piper's own knowledge. In the previous
set (p. 524, Vol. 6) a sister of Mr. Thompson's was represented as
unfamiliar with them and wanting them taken off. This also was
a correct apprehension of fact at the date referred to.
" The lady with my boy " may well refer to his son's engagement
though that was not in Mrs. Piper's normal knowledge, and pre-
sumably not in Dr. Hodgson's either. But of course this sort of
thing can be guessed; and E. T. had clearly hinted it. (Cf. p. 176).
In fact although there is nothing very much obtained, and little
that can be called really evidential, because of Mrs. Piper's previous
normal knowledge, —provided any clue to the particular family had
been conveyed during Edwin Thompson's sitting, in the course of
which I observe that he had mentioned the name " Theodora " and
also spoken of "the business,"— there is nothing that is inapplicable
or foreign to the person represented, or in the least untrue, as soon
as communication really began ; and there is much in the dramatic
details that I find distinctly interesting.
Sittings in 1906.
It may be that when the American records of this period are
hunted through, a few other brief manifestations of the Isaac Thompson
control may be found in them, For a record has been sent me by
Mr. Piddington of an incident which was unexpectedly interpolated
in a sitting of his during a visit to America in the spring of 1906.
It should be premised that Mr. Piddington was ignorant of and
not interested in the Thompson family.
The following is the relevant extract :—
172 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Portion of a Sitting held by J. G. P. with Mrs. Piper in Boston
on 23 May, 1906.
Yes, we have much to say to you and we have a message
to give you from a spirit whom we call Thompson.
He wishes to send his love to his wife and children
and says he is anxious to meet Teddy again.
J. G. P. To meet Teddy 1
That is what he said.
J. G. P. Yes, I think I understand. Could he give any fact?
He says he is delighted with the change which has come
to him and believes it will be a great help to him.
J. G. P. By the " change that has come to him " does he mean to
Eddy, or Freddy, his son 1
Ted. Ted, Ted.
J. G. P. Yes, I will give that message to Ted.
Tell him not to feel anxious about the business as I am
helping him constantly.
(Hand seemed to listen and then wrote)
I was sorry about Theo's headaches but I know [she] will
be better now.
(J. G. P. read "Ted's" instead of "Theo's.")
Not Ted's. Listen. Theodore's. Theo's. (read)
Yes, correct. Oh my, I hardly realized I could speak so well.
J. G. P. Was that the spirit Thompson who said that 1
It was I myself. I have been waiting this opportunity a
very long time.
J. G. P. Now can you tell me some incident in your past life that
might be a proof of identity? And 1 will send it to
your family.
Yes, gladly. I was writing some letters to an uncle hoping
I might be able to help him just before I came over here.
Ted will U.D. this. [It does not seem to be specially
appropriate.]
J. G. P. Yes ?
I am very anxious to keep in touch with all my family.
More later.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 173
It will be observed how natural it is for a sitter or for the ex-
perimenter in charge to challenge a control to furnish some evidence
of his identity, or to demand from him a sudden answer to a specific
question.
It is quite natural and I suppose inevitable : but that it also is
to some extent unreasonable must be admitted. Trivial domestic
incidents are not constantly in one's thoughts, and only when in a
reminiscent and holiday mood, or under the stimulus of friendly
chat, does any vivid recollection of such incidents normally occur.
It is a common experience that characteristic touches, specific
phrases, and sparkling sayings, are most likely to come out in the
give and take of lively conversation. Silent and solitary brooding,
though it may generate valuable and even brilliant ideas in a few
cases, does not as a rule lead to anything specially personal or
identifying—rather the contrary,—such ideas seem to spring up
impersonally, or to be supplied from outside, so to speak.
It is proverbially difficult to control thoughts to order, and a com-
municator suddenly asked to remember an identifying circumstance, or
to send an appropriate message, may feel rather as a person feels
when set in front of a phonograph and told to "say something
brilliant for posterity." Under these conditions any one with the
gift might compose some half-doggerel verse perhaps, or might
remember some poetry more or less accurately,—and indeed that
is what it appears the controls sometimes actually do—but usually
there would be hesitation, requests for delay, and fishing for sugges-
tions, —something like what we find in the records. The controls
cannot, unfortunately, be assisted by the give and take of friendly
and stimulating conversation ;
for, under the conditions of a sitting,
the intercourse on our side is nearly all " take " and very little
"give." It is admittedly dangerous for a sitter to talk freely, because
the conditions then become "loose," and more may be inadvertently
given away than was intended, so that thereafter nothing obtained,
however otherwise good, can be considered evidential. But then
it must also be admitted—no conversation can be in the full sense
stimulating or satisfactory if its animation is hampered by a constant
desire to keep back as much as possible, lurking in the background.
In order to be human a conversation should be whole-hearted
and free from arrihes pensdes on both sides : but under evidential
conditions that seems quite impossible. It is one of the many
disadvantages under which the investigation of the subject inevitably
labours.
174 Sir Oliver Lodge, [part
Sittings in England.
We now skip to Nov. 1906, when Mrs. Piper was brought over
by the S.P.R. to England ; and on landing in Liverpool was met
by Edwin Thompson on behalf of Mrs. Isaac Thompson, and was
taken with her daughters to their home for a few days. On the
evening of Nov. 9th I went over to Liverpool from Birmingham for
the Saturday and Sunday, and we had a couple of sittings, in which
again it is the dramatic character of the recognition that can alone
be treated as of any interest.
In America it was a question, and a minor test, whether the family
could be identified. Here in Liverpool of course no test of that
kind was possible. The getting into communication at a strange
house in America was evidently difficult and tiresome, as the first
[omitted] sitting, held on 11 Dec. 1905, shows: but here in Isaac
Thompson's own home, so to speak, and with his own family,
recognition is easy enough,—though even there, after the interval,
not quite sudden. The change of locality seems a barely recognised
incident, he continues at first to talk to his son much as he had
tried to do before; but the excitement, when at a certain stage in the
sitting the widow let her presence be known and her voice heard,
was very great and remarkable.
Here is the record, or so much of it as need be printed.
I think it desirable to report in full the initial stages of this
first English sitting of the new series, although some of it may be
considered dull and dispiriting ; because it illustrates the difficulty
that apparently exists, even under these exceptionally favourable
circumstances, at getting into what purports to be clear communica-
tion with a deceased member of a family, —the difficulty being not
wholly on one side. And the ultimate vivid recognition, when the
recognition stage is reached, is likewise instructive : indeed to persons
present it is more than instructive, —it is, in its accessory way,
what may be called 'convincing', —perhaps for the moment more
convincing than it ought to be.
Lvm.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III 175
First Recent Piper Sitting, Liverpool, 1906.
Held at 19 Waverky Road, Liverpool, on Saturday, 10th
November, 1906, beginning at 10.50 a.m., ending about
12.50 p.m.
Present—Mrs. Isaac (Susan) Thompson, Edwin Thompson, and sister,
with 0. J. L. recording.
-+- Hail. (Hand raised. Cross in air.)
0. J. L. Hail, Imperator !
We return to earth once more this day with peace and
love + E
O. J. L, I thank you for coming now, because I am so busy.
We understand, but we must follow after Sabbaths as we
understand time better.
O. J. L. But will you sit to-morrow, this Sabbath ?
[That is the way these controls reckon time. By '
Sabbath
'
they mean Sunday. 0. J. L. See also p. 27 of Mr.
Piddington's report (Vol. 22) for other days of the
week.]
We will. + R. A spirit is present whom we have seen
before, he is imploring us to let him speak.
O. J. L. Yes, we wish to speak to him.
We understand you very well, friend, and you are under-
standing me also.
[Then came the change of control, either real or sim-
ulated, and O. J. L. gives place to E. T. as sitter.]
(Excitement in hand, many scrawls.)
I am so very glad to return again.
I have longed to speak once more.
E. T. Have you ever communicated with me before through this
medium 1
Are you by any possibility my son 1
176 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
E. T. Yes, have you spoken to me before ?
Oh yes, do you not remember how difficult it was for me
to reach you under those new and strange conditions ?
I am so delighted to see you again. I cannot think
fast enough. God bless you my boy. I have been
helping you and Theodo.
E. T. Was it long ago you saw me 1
I do not understand.
E. T. Can you give your name 1
?
What name? E.
E. T. I do not know who it is yet.
Neither do I. R.
Tlieoder. The
E. T. Oh, you mean Theodora.
All the time I am helping her.
E. T. Do you remember speaking to me before ?
God bless you. Not long ago, but it was not here. Do you
not remember you asked me what I thought of your
new life?
E. T. Yes, I remember.
I am your father, I am, and I sent several messages to you
through a friend who came with you, and who is now
on our side. [This of course refers to Dr. Hodgson.]
Do you understand, my son ?
E. T. What is that last?
My son. I wish you to understand and to tell Theodora I
am watching over her.
E. T. Tell mother?
No, tell Theodora I am watching over her.
I want mother to know it also.
How is it you do not speak ?
E. T. Can you give any message that I can tell mother?
[Note, interpolated by the recorder. The interesting feature in this
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 177
part of the record is the conscientious anxiety of the sitter not
to give any clue or assistance to the control. This attitude—the
result of instruction from Dr. Hodgson on the other side the
Atlantic—was specially appropriate at the Boston sitting to which
E. T. was introduced as an anonymous stranger, though it is less
useful and may indeed seem hampering here in his own house at
Liverpool, with Mrs. Piper staying with the family and knowing them
all well. It illustrates, however, what is always very marked, how
naturally a sitter ignores the normal knowledge of Mrs. Piper and
treats it as non-existent. It seems to me that the controls likewise
treat it as non-existent, and that her normal knowledge has in reality
very little if any influence on the information that is obtained during
her trance. The trance personalities appear to be ignorant of, or to be
groping after, a number of things that Mrs. Piper knows quite well,
and, on the other hand, to attain knowledge of which she is and
remains entirely ignorant until she reads these records ;
—which it is
to be presumed she does when they are printed and published,
not before. (See further remarks on this subject below, page 181.)
Now, however, the sitting enters on a more natural phase] :
Tell her I am sorry I did not understand about coming here.
Had I, I should have arranged things differently for her.
Take good care of her will you
1
?
E. T. She is here, would yon like to speak with her?
Oh yes, oh yes, oh yes. Why did you not tell me before ?
Mes. T. Do you see me ?
I hear her speak.
(Excitement. Breaks pencil.)
Isa
Mrs. T. Do you see me 1
I do, I do, I do, I do.
Isaac.
Mes. T. Can you call me by my name 1
SSSA.
Let me free my mind and tell you how I feel.
I am not dead now, but I am speaking with you.
Isauc. I am he. Do you remember
Issa. Issa.
Susa. Susa.
M
178 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Mrs. T. Can you help me about Theodora 1
Yes I can now, but I did not before.
Dear, are you tired ? Are you tired and discouraged at
times ?
Mrs. T. Yes, Isaac, since you went.
Better I came. Think it so.
Can't you see me ?
Mrs. T. No, I cannot.
Susar Susan Susu Susin
(Excitement, scrawls.)
Mrs. T. Shall Theodora come in ? Would you like to see her ?
Yes, more than you think.
Mrs. T. Here is Theodora.
She is going to get well and get stronger and better than
ever before in all her life.
She has light, she has light, but do not use it. It isn't
good for her.
Mrs. T. You mean she could write automatically, but is not to try !
Correct. Do not let her do so, I beg of you.
Father. Papa. I wish you to get all good out of that
life : that let me desire for you. [1]
Dear Theo, you have a claim to health—it is your right.
T. T. Can you tell me anything I should do to get strong?
Yes, I'll ask the Doctor, I'll call the Doctor.
(Change of control.)
Come here.
(Then the control calling itself "Doctor" entered into long
medical details and precepts.)
Then the Isaac Thompson control returned and talked of business
matters with his son, and was much interested to hear about the
result of a lawsuit, begun before he died, and other matters concerning
which Edwin Thompson gave information. The reception of the
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 179
information was perfectly appropriate and natural. It concluded
thus :
Good for you. [?] I shall be happier to understand.
I tried to tell that man who helped me reach you in America,
and who is now with me. Did he tell you *?
I told
him before he came over that I was troubled about
something and hoped it would be all right. [Meaning
presumably the lawsuit which was bearing on his mind.]
E. T. Are you happy now ?
Yes, I am, very, because I understand and see you all, and
I am so near you. I spoke of you all to him.
E. T. Who is that 1
His name is Hodgson.
E. T. Oh yes, Dr. Hodgson. I understand.
And he is helping me now.
(Interpolation by recorder.)
I find all these episodes instructive, and the portion about the
lawsuit was as good as it could be ; but it would be tedious to
strangers. The anxiety to be told about it—a matter which had
weighed on his mind and caused him a good deal of worry just at
the end of his life —seemed quite genuine.
E. T. Have you any messages for mother ?
Ask her if she understands what I meant by Agnes.
E. T. Have you any message for Agnes 1
Yes, I love you all so much, so very much.
I wish you to know it well. Agnes.
E. T. Would you like to speak to Agnes 1
I should, I should, I should.
[Agnes is the married daughter, living in another town. 0. J. L.]
E. T. Shall she come to-morrow or next day t
I do not understand. Ask Eector.
180 Sir Oliver Lodge, [part
Mks. T. Would you like her to come to see you ?
Oh yes, much. Do you remember, clear Susan,
(There appeared now to be some confusion.)
What are you talking about 1 Something is troubling me
very much just now. Something. You are all talking
at once, and I do not understand you.
0. J. L. Shall we all go out of the room except one 1
No, stop talking. What is that fellow doing'?
(An organ-grinder was playing outside in the street, and
the sound coming in through the open window evidently
introduced confusion. This must have been what was
spoken of as " all talking at once.")
What are you doing? Stop it, stop it. Rector.
0. J. L. We have sent out to stop it.
What is he talking about 1
0. J. L. It was a man outside, we have sent out to stop the noise.
Oh, I understand.
(The noise ceased.)
Your father is not quite satisfied with the way in which I
spelt that name, but I cannot understand it very well. R.
[This probably referred to some name mentioned in connexion
with the business. 0. J. L.]
E. T. Has my father gone away now ?
He is here, but he is getting weak.
Good-bye for the present, I will speak again. Good-bye
children, I will speak again. Darling S. Are you getting
on well without me? I am looking after you, and when
you think of me I am nearest you. You are a part of
me always. I am a part of you always, a part of you
always. Nearest you dear.
(End.)
There was nothing of special interest in the waking stage this time.
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 181
Comment.
Comment on this sitting is not specially necessary : it was a sound
and satisfactory sitting with a quite realistic impersonation of the
deceased, as soon as communication was once established. The
incidental episode of the disturbance caused by the organ-grinder
outside is interesting. The sitting was in a room high up, on the
second floor, with the window open. The noise from the outer world
perturbed the control, as if it were a sort of general conversation
that was going on. We, the sitters, were not specially annoyed ; but
the fidget of the hand increased until it rebelled, and called for
cessation of whatever it was that caused the disturbance, —as recorded.
I am told that Mrs. Piper, in trance, was similarly disturbed by
passing vans, and by the noise of coal being put on the fire, at
sittings in London.
In continuation of what I have said above (page 177) about the
normal knowledge of Mrs. Piper having little or no influence on
the knowledge shown by the controls, the instance of the surprise
and eagerness shown by the Isaac Thompson control when told
that Mrs. Isaac Thompson was present is a case in point. For of
course Mrs. Piper had known perfectly well the people likely to be
present at the sitting, and had seen them assemble ; it was no
news to her. But indeed everything tends to show that during
thorough trance the normal consciousness is in abeyance. And,
although it is true that we cannot claim anything as evidential
when it comes out in the trance if it had ever been known to Mrs.
Piper, I myself am unable to trace much, if any, connexion between
the trance knowledge and her normal knowledge. For instance, a
sitter introduced by name is no more likely to have his name
mentioned during a sitting than one who is introduced as an anony-
mous stranger. I make a general statement of this kind believing
that careful analysis will bear it out, and as a challenge to anyone
who will bestow time and labour upon the work of analysing the
records from this point of view. It seems to me a desirable piece
of work for someone to undertake.
Of course a sceptic may say that this kind of kenosis is due to
mere cunning ; but the time for suspicion of that kind is over with
most of us investigators. It is a genuine piece of psychological
information that we now desire, not anything analogous to detective
work. Detective work is necessary in its proper time and place,
but there are cases which have run that gauntlet, and require
more advanced treatment. The Piper case is one of them.
182 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
When I speak of "Mrs. Piper's normal knowledge," I mean of
course knowledge acquired in her ordinary state. Knowledge acquired
while in the trance state is of course reproducible when in that
state, but it appears not to be accessible iu her ordinary state ; and
vice versa. I do not call that "normal knowledge."
To illustrate that the controls themselves feel that their only
access to the normal Mrs. Piper is through the agency of her
daughter, with whom they can communicate during trance, I extract
a small fragment from a quantity of serious conversation which took
place between them and Dr. Hodgson's executors soon after his death.
Mr. Dorr, I think, was conducting the sitting and speaking the
remarks printed in parentheses.
"(We are anxious that the light in the future should not
be adrift and astray, and anxious that past relations
should not be wholly interrupted by any change of
environment or other.)
Well, no one could be more anxious about these things or
more concerned than we ourselves are, and it hath dis-
turbed us not a little to see the conditions on the earthly
side. We are not quite pleased with them because the
light cannot know itself, it cannot understand itself. It
is shut off from communication with us on our side and
it must remain in ignorance of the methods which we
pursue in our endeavors to reach the mortals on the
earthly side.
(But through the daughter, Alta, I have felt that you might
in a sense reach her.)
Yes, that is the only way."
I do not adduce this as evidence, but as illustrative of how the
phenomenon represents itself j for when it does so consistently it is
reasonable to suppose that something true is indicated.
Sitting No. 2 of the Thompsons in Liverpool, on Sunday, 11 Nov.
0. J. L. again present.
After a brief interlude with the Myers control talking to 0. J. L.
(see further on), the Isaac Thompson control appeared and continued
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 183
to the end. There was plenty of family talk of a reasonably
satisfactory kind. The following may suffice :
[In reply to some question.]
I do, I do, and remember my brother who was lame.
Joe.
E. T. Did you say Joe 1
Yes.
E. T. Is he with you now ?
No, no.
E. T. Is Joe my uncle 1 It is Ted speaking. Do you mean Ted's
uncle 1
I do, Yes. Tell him I send my love to him, also greetings
from this life [?] Tell him I thank him for all his kind-
ness to you all, and I will do all I can to help him in
return.
Do you understand 1 Why do you not repeat after him ?
Rector.
E. T. We were trying to read it.
I will now read it over, (does so).
Is that right ?
Yes, all is well.
E. T. Do you wish him thanked ']
Yes, I thank, I thank.
Have you got it ?
E. T. Can you explain further who Joe is ?
Yes I can. Where is mother? She will understand.
Mrs. T. Do you mean Joe Coventry 1
Yes.
Mrs. T. Is he helping now ?
No, not now.
Mrs. T. Did he help us before 1
I thought so.
184 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
E. T. Yes it is quite true that he did when you went away and we
were in trouble. He did help us a good deal.
Good. I like you to understand, and I like it very much.
It helps me much to recall, recall, recall, things for
you.
I want you to know I live.
I want you to know I live. (Repeated because misread.)
0. J. L. Can you send something to prove your identity 1
Hello Lodge. Well if I ever saw anything so strange.
0. J. L. Hullo Thompson. Glad to see you again.
Good. Do you remember a talk, in fact many, we had about
this ?
0. J. L Cannot read that.
A talk, in fact many.
0. J. L. Yes, I do indeed.
I used to wonder how much I could believe, and now I am
to prove it for your world.
0. J. L. Yes, that is what we want.
Hello.
0. J. L. We want you to prove your identity.
Good. I am getting clearer every minute.
I see you all better than ever before.
May I speak to my wife alone ]
(All go out but Mrs. T.)
Mrs. T. Do you see me Isaac ?
Yes I do see you dear, and I love you dearly. I see it
clearly. I know you are, dear, and when you think of
me I know it. I see. [Etc. No questions being kept,
this part is unintelligible. Two sheets are removed by
0. J. L. from the script, numbered 40 and 41.]
The omitted part of the record is appropriate but not strictly
evidential, as the remarks of the Sitter are not preserved, and some
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 185
of it is private but I may say that she was called by the right
abbreviation of her Christian name which he always used. It is
worth noting that in a previous set the '
Uncle Edwin ' called her
by another abbreviation—which was the appropriate one also in his
case. See pp. 523, 4, Vol. 6.
Subsequently there was much talk with his daughters, and more
business talk with the son, whom he called Ted as usual, but whom
he did not call by a childish nickname which was asked for and
not given.
Waking Stage.
While coming out of trance Mrs. Piper spoke, or rather muttered
at intervals, as usual ; and her words were taken down, or such of
them as could be heard (cf. p. 135). It is worth while to quote one
record of these ejaculations—say this one, since it was a fairly
typical case of an unimportant and unevidential but characteristic
coming to.
Notes intruded in square brackets are added merely in order
to place the reader in the same sort of position as regards under-
standing the significance of these sub-conscious utterances as a
recorder finds himself in after an experience of many sittings.
I am aware that such explanations may irritate a certain group of
people who have been all their lives familiar with trance speeches
of one kind or another ; but in the first place I must beg them to
observe that when I explain things to members and associates I am
not assuming ignorance on the part of specialists. It would be
impossible to write in an explanatory fashion on any branch of
even the most orthodox science if thereby one ran the risk of
offending specialists. In ordinary subjects it is safe silently to
assume that experienced people will understand that their know-
ledge is taken for granted. Again, trances are by no means identical.
Each has distinctive features. Mrs. Piper's trance has itself under-
gone modification in the course of the nineteen years since I first
knew her ; and it may be useful to quote the kind of phrases
employed by her during recovery—if only as a psychological study.
They are seldom or never identical, but they have a strong family
likeness. Here then they are on this occasion :
" I saw you before. It is fearful. [This means that she
dislikes changing from her trance state and coming back
to ordinary surroundings.]
186 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
They are going away. It's awful. Too bad. Snap. [This
refers to a sensation which she calls a snap in the
head, which nearly always precedes a return to con-
sciousness. Sometimes it heralds almost a sudden return ;
and she is always more conscious after a snap than she
was before ; but often it takes two snaps to bring her
completely to. AVhat the snap is I do not know, but I
expect it is something physiological. It is not audible
to others, though Mrs. Piper half seems to expect it to
be so.]
What are all the people doing ?
[Probably some of the sitters were moving about and
leaving the room, under the mistaken impression that
the snap meant that interest was over.]
I saw a man in the light, which looked like Mr. Thompson.
Kept waving his hand. The man with the cross was
helping him out.
["The man with the cross" is intended to signify Imperator.]
The moon was shining [or it may have been the '
sun.' It
only signifies that her recent surroundings have been
bright and luminous.]
Has an old lady with him.
[This no doubt means Isaac Thompson's mother. See Vol. 6,
pages 523-544.]
She is helping him read something. I could see his face
perfectly.
Noise, [probably something going on outside.] They were
talking to me. I came in on a cord, a silver cord.
They were trying to tell me something about the
children in the body. Lovely place.
Buzzing in my head. Another snap.
Miss Thompson. I thought you were small. Looking
through opera glasses at wrong end. You grew larger.
Did you hear my head snap ? It breaks.
I forgot where we were sitting.
Why Mrs Thompson, I didn't know you were there. My
cold."
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 187
[Mrs. Piper was troubled with a cold at this time. Her
intelligence was now normal.]
In further illustration of the waking stage, showing how similar
it was in 1906 to what it is now, and as a further description of
the curious " snap " sensation, I subjoin an extract from the
termination of a sitting with Henry James, Junior, and Mr. Dorr
in America in 1906.
I thought you were a stranger.
Well, did you hear my head snap ?
H.J.Je. No.
Didn't hear it 1 It is a funny sound. Don't you hear it at
all 1 Sounds like wheels clicking together and then snaps.
There it is again.
G. B. D. Now you are really back.
Third Sitting of the Thompson Family with Mrs. Piper at
Liverpool on 12 November, 1906.
With regard to sitting No. 3, held on 12 Nov. —at which I was
not present, though all the Thompson family were, including the
married daughter Agnes—there is not much in the record to interest
an outsider. The Hodgson control put in a short appearance, but
the Thompson control appeared to be present nearly all the time, and
said many appropriate things, though in my judgment the record
does not show that it was a specially good sitting.
It may be sufficient to copy here Edwin Thompson's letter to me
the next day.
Letter from Edwin Thompson about Sitting No. 3.
To us the sitting was most satisfactory : the most convincing part
being the last few answers. Mother asked if he recognised the
room, and you will see the answer is correct (the hand looked round
for some time) : and then when we said Good-bye, he said he never
did like Good-bye; which is perfectly true, although at the time,
when we said it, we did not think of it.
Are the original writings kept ? If not I should be very much
obliged if I might have the originals of this sitting.
I cannot remember the stick to which Father refers.
18S Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Dr. Hodgson [i.e. the Hodgson control. 0. J. L.] seemed most
emphatic in [his part of] the writing. With regard to "Dinner at
Club " [to which he refers] he had been most pressing for me to dine
with him there, when I was in America, and had also written and
asked me to du so. It never came off, however, as I was so pressed
for time.
I will send a full report of the sitting by to-night's post.
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) Edwin Thompson.
The following are the passages in the script referred to in this
letter [Isaac Thompson supposed to be communicating] :
Do you remember a stick I gave you one Christmas 1
Agnes. No I do not, what kind of a stick 1
I got it in the Canary Islands.
Agnes. I don't remember the stick, but I remember your going to the
Canary Islands.
That's what he said. R.
All right I am glad you remember that.
[And then later in the sitting]
Mrs. T. Can you remember this room ?
Give me time and I'll see. (Hand waves about and seems
to look round everywhere.) Can it be the nursery, Sue
dear ?
Mrs. T. Yes it's the old nursery, where we have been so often
together.
I am so glad to know and see you all here.
E. T. Imperator, Rector, it is time for us to close.
+ We are about to cease.
All tue Family. Good-bye Good-bye.
Do not say it more [or now], I am with you although I
speak not. I never did like Good-bye.
lviij.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 189
Mrs. T. May we say au revoir.
Yes au revoir.
God bless you and keep you in his holy keeping.
+ R.
We cease now and may the blessing of God rest on you all.
+ Farewell R.
Sittings at Edgbaston.
Mrs. Piper thereupon came from Liverpool to my house at
Edgbaston ; where the first sittings were occupied by other matters
—fragmentary talks with the Myers and Hodgson controls, arrange-
ments about future sittings, and plans for the London visit. For it
was as necessary to secure the good-will and consent of the responsible
controls as it was to conciliate Mrs. Piper herself, in making future
arrangements ;
they would not see everybody, nor could it be assumed
that they would consent to appear unless the}' approved the conditions
of time and place. (Parenthetically I may here remark that on one
occasion I had a total failure ; the trance would not come on. See
page 238.) But they frankly discuss the proposed arrangements and
are as amenable to suggestions as real people are. They were
evidently desirous that the conditions should be good, and that no
undue tax should be put upon the medium. Of course their atti-
tude in this respect may be taken as a natural self-preservative
attitude of the subconcious part of Mrs. Piper's intelligence.
Other friends also appeared, and more than one important stranger
was introduced during this short series.
Not till the fifth Edgbaston sitting (the 8th of this English series)
did the Isaac Thompson control again put in an appearance. I do
not assert that he actually controlled—probably not—but he sent
messages through Rector.
The ostensible reason for his coming was because Mrs. Isaac
Thompson had just sent me through the post an object connected
with a living brother of his, concerning whose health anxiety was
felt. I opened the packet and handed what turned out to be a
necktie to Mrs. Piper's hand, after she was entranced, giving her no
clue whatever. Before long it was said to belong to " the family
with Agnes Teddy . . .
"
; and when I admitted that it had to do
with the family of Isaac Thompson, I was told (what I knew) that
it belonged to one of his living brothers, whose name was correctly
given.
190 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Medical statements were made, concerning facts not in my know-
ledge, which were said to be correct when reported ; and advice was
tendered, especially concerning the visits of some specified local
doctor. This apparent obtaining of information from an object is
very remarkable, though common enough. I have remarked on it
elsewhere. It seems to strengthen the case for general telepathic
activity as opposed to personal identity.
Then '
Isaac Thompson ' spoke to me of a few incidents during
travels which we had taken together; but those which he best
recollected for the most part I did not, or only partially, and vice versa ;
so that there is nothing much worth recording. Among other things,
he tried to remind me of a knife—a paper knife —which he had
given me. I could not remember it ; but it has since turned up
a carved red-wood paper knife which I did not use, and so had
forgotten. He had brought it, I think, from the Canary Islands—
visit to which had been mentioned by the control in an evidential
manner. Other things which I had forgotten may be true ;
but, save
in exceptional cases, these reminiscences do not seem of much value.
Appropriate—though, under the circumstances of previous normal
knowledge, non-evidential—messages were sent to his family, and
to his brother; which were duly delivered.
Mrs. Isaac Thompson wrote to me, after receiving a record of the
statements made in connexion with the necktie which she had sent
me, saying that the brother (who had never seen Mrs. Piper) ad-
mitted the general correctness of the medical diagnosis, that he was
much interested in the message sent to him, and that he was going
to the Doctor recommended. Also that a "picnic," referred to as
among the reminiscences of the Isaac Thompson control, suggested
to her one at Coniston ;
though I had failed to remember it.
In a still later Edgbaston sitting, in May 1907, after Mrs. Piper's
return from London, Isaac Thompson again sent messages to the
family, with further reminiscences of events in which I was concerned
but nothing of special importance.
Last English sitting with the Thompson family at Liverpool.
Finally—to finish up the Isaac Thompson series—when at length
Mrs. Piper went back to Liverpool, on her way to America (after
a holiday in Scotland, which she had spent in the neighbourhood
of the Thompson family who were also in Scotland and with whom
she and her daughters were on very friendly terms) they had a
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 191
farewell sitting, at which I was not present, from which a few extracts
must be made.
It must be stated that a brother of Mrs. Thompson, named Charles,
had died in the interval, namely on May 22nd ; this final sitting
being held on July 3rd, all in the year 1907.
The following is a sufficient extract from the record.
Sitting called No. 17. The Thompson family with Mrs. Piper,
at Liverpool, on 3 July, 1907. Annotated chiefly by Edwin
Thompson.
[After Eector's introductory remarks.]
E. T. Have you anything you wish to communicate to anyone
present 1
Yes we have much. We bring a spirit who says he's your
father.
E. T. Is he present now 1
He is.
Good morning my boy, I am glad to see you again ; did
you and mother receive my message ? you and mother.
E. T. Yes, we did.
I want to tell you that I have a new friend here whom I was
very glad to meet. Chas.
He says Chas. Chas Chare Charl
E. T. We do understand, but can you spell that word correctly ?
I'll ask your father. R
[Thereby indicating that Rector is really conveying the
messages. 0. J. L.]
Yes. Chares Chares
Charles
[Charles E. Stevens, brother of Mrs. T. died on 22 May, 1907.]
sends love to M.
[Probably Mary his sister.]
192 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
E. T. Is that M ?
Yes.
I didn't realise I was coming over.
[He died suddenly from apoplexy.]
Oh dear I am so glad to understand it now.
Isaac has been so kind, so very kind to me.
I can't tell you how kind.
(Then he expresses anxiety about his other surviving sister,
Mary, and begs that she may be looked after. Then
he says he has something on his mind.)
I want you to look up a picture I ordered before I left, and
it never came.
E. T. Can you tell us from whom you ordered it?
That would be difficult to get through to thee, but I ordered
it from a friend of mine, who used to take my orders,
and get them for me.
Tell Mary she dreamed I was there and I was.
That picture must be looked up.
E. T. Can you tell us whether it was a water-colour or an oil ]
Water, yes.
Mrs. T. Yes, Charlie, the picture did come after you left, and Mary
sent the bill of it to Mr. Alsop to pay.
[E. T. did not know anything about this.]
Oh I am so glad to understand.
Mrs. T. That is good, and all done with. Is there any other message
thou would like to give about anything?
(Then again he refers to his sister.)
Take good care of her and do not let her go off alone.
Mrs. T. We will do our best.
She will come over to me some time but before she comes I
want you all to look after her.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 193
Mrs. T. But you have no reason to think that she will join you
shortly 1
I have reason for asking you to take good care of her.
Ted, is this you 1
E. T. Yes it is, Uncle Charlie.
I am glad to see you.
(Then he gives his nephew business advice and again refers
to family matters, mentioning names quite familiarly
and correctly, though some of them were also men-
tioned by the sitters, in a fairly natural conversational
way on both sides, —though of course all rather of the
anxious and telephonic order necessitated by the diffi-
culties incidental to the situation.
Then 'Charles' disappeared, and his brother-in-law,
'Isaac Thompson,' once more sent messages and advice
about business—showing rather detailed knowledge on
some points. Then he addressed Mrs. Thompson
again :
—
Oh dear Sue, did you understand my message 1
Mrs. T. Do you mean the message that came through Sir Oliver 1
Yes I do.
Mrs. T. Yes I did get it. Did you see Charlie when he went over ?
Oh yes, I was by his side and helped him to find his way.
Mrs. T. We were so sorry to part with him.
Yes I was so glad to see him ... he is always near you all.
Mrs. T. And Isaac, we want to send our love to thee and Charlie.
Theodora is here and Agnes is downstairs.
Theodora dear are you better. (Theodora had just come into
the room.)
I say you. R. Because I understand it better. Rector. He
says Thee, but I say you. I understand it better.
Mrs. T. We understand.
(Then after long medical advice from "Doctor " to Theodora
Agnes comes in and says)
N
194 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
A. Here is Agnes. Is my father there ?
Well dear I have been waiting to speak with you.
A. What is that?
I have been waiting to speak with you.
A. Can you call me by the name you used to call me ?
Yes . . . Yiyi [But this name had been given away by her
in a previous sitting. 0. J. L.]
A. Yes, that is what I wanted.
Do you remember how I used to explain about your work ?
Tell me dear you are happier now ?
A. Yes, I am.
Do you understand when I come to you when seem bothered 1
A. Yes, I do. What is the little light I often see ?
(Hand excited.) Agnes dear do you understand that light?
I, it is I who bring that light to you.
A. When there is another light beside the big one what does that
mean 1
It is your brother here [meaning a deceased infant brother].
Never feel that I forget you for a minute. I never do.
There is a young girl here who sends love to Helen.
A. Is it Nita?
Yes (emphatically) yes she says.
A. Has she any message for Helen ?
Yes, she says tell her not to think I am far away. I am
trying to help and cheer her, but she seems not to know
me and goes on weeping. I do not wish her to do so
more. Ask her to get my little brown purse and
keep it.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 195
A. Have you any message about little Donald?
Yes I wish so much to make her understand how I am trying
to reach them all.
Yi Yi are you there dear?
Listen. A young girl is trying to send her love to her
Mother.
A. Her Mother?
Mother and Donald and all . . . too.
Will you tell her ?
A. Yes, I will tell her. Has my father any message for me or
my husband ?
Ask her if she remembers a very pretty handkerchief he gave
me one Christmas.
A. Yes, Helen has it now.
Helen, oh I want her to have it.
Give my dearest love . . . Yes indeed all.
Tell them I am better off, and very happy, if they will only
be so too.
A. Who does Nita want to look after Donald ?
Bertram—very very much and Mother also. Good-bye.
I could say much more to you, but I can't now Dear.
Yes dearest, you feel troubled don't you ? Well I do not
wish you to.
Mrs. T. I can't help it Isaac.
But don't, if you only won't I know dear Sue everything is
all right.
(E. T. indicates that time is up.)
Yes but let me say one word more ;
may I not ?
E. T. Yes, but we have only one more minute.
Sue dear, feel that all is going to be right, and it will be,
and we shall meet again.
196 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Mrs. T. Yes, that is what I am looking forward to.
(
I too, when it is right. I shall be so glad. That is what
light is for. Good-bye.
Ted my boy I am not overlooking you at all, my love and
all my help for you ; father.
+ we cease now, and may the blessings of God rest on you.
+ Farewell (E).
That is the last of the Isaac Thompson series of messages. They
are reported because of their simple domestic character and the
appropriate knowledge and anxiety they show ;
though few of them
can be regarded as technically evidential.
Remarks on Belies.
In this last sitting the unexpected, though rather hoped for,
appearance of the uncle (brother of Mrs. Isaac Thompson) recently
deceased, is rather striking ; and his messages are all quite appro-
priate. (Of course Mrs. Piper had heard of the death, since she was
in friendly relation with the Thompson family.) It need not be
supposed that he was actually in control : presumably it was
Rector who was reporting in the first person all the time.
It will by some people—who might otherwise be in favour of some
form of spiritistic hypothesis—be thought absurd that reference
should be made under such circumstances to trifles like ordered but
undelivered pictures, and to trivialities like the possession of a hand-
kerchief or other relic. The usual excuse is that these things are
mentioned for purposes of identification ; but though there may be
some truth in that view, there is, in my judgment, more reason than
that for such incidents, and they are not contradictory of the notion
of survival. The fate of objects once regarded with affection,
or even interest, and possessing any kind of personal association,
does not seem to have suddenly become a matter of indifference.
Scattered through all the sittings are innumerable instances of this
sort of curious memory of and interest in trifles ; so that it would
be merely tedious to refer to pages where they occur. Every experi-
enced sitter knows that such references are the commonest of all.
What is the explanation 1 I am not prepared with a full explana-
tion ;
but, granted the most completely spiritistic hypothesis, it
would appear that the state after death is not a sudden plunge
into a stately, dignified, and specially religious atmosphere. The
environment, like the character, appears to be much more like what
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter III. 197
it is here than some folk imagine. This may be due to the effort
and process incidental to the condition of semi-return, under which
alone communication is possible : it appears to involve something less
than full consciousness. But it goes rather further than this, since
a few of the controls, when recently deceased (a pious old lady in
particular is in my mind), have said that the surroundings were more
"secular" than they expected; they have indeed expressed themselves
as if a little disappointed, though they nearly always say that the
surroundings are better than they are here. Anyhow, there appears
to be no violent or sudden change of nature ; and so any one who
has cared for trinkets may perhaps after a fashion care for them
still.
But there must be more than that even. Objects appear to serve
as attractive influences, or nuclei, from which information may be
clairvoyantly gained. It appears as if we left traces of ourselves, not
only on our bodies, but on many other things with which we have
been subordinately associated, and that these traces can thereafter
be detected by a sufficiently sensitive person. This opens a large
subject which I have touched upon once or twice already in other
papers—never with any feeling of certainty or security —and which
requires careful handling lest its misunderstanding pave the way for
mere superstition.
But to return to common sense, and without assuming anything
of this kind, even hypothetically, how do we know that we are right
in speaking of some things as trifles and other things as important 1
What is our scale or standard of value 1
No one expects people to be wholly indifferent as to the posthumous
disposal of their property, provided it amounts to several thousand
pounds. They make careful wills, and would, if they knew, be
perhaps displeased if the provisions were not adhered to, or if
their final will was lost.
Very well, on what scale shall we estimate property, and how
shall we measure its value ?
It is conceivable that, seen from another side, little personal
relics may awaken memories more poignant than those associated with
barely recollected stocks and shares.
That at any rate is the kind of idea which naturally suggests itself
in connexion with the subject. Our terrestrial estimate of the
comparative importance of things is not likely to be cosmically
sufficient or perennially true.
However that may be, it is clear that the various Piper controls
198 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
do not estimate the importance of property by any standard dependent
on pounds sterling. As a variant on old lockets, old letters, and
other rubbish, in which Phinuit seemed to take some interest, I once
gave him a five-pound note. It was amusing to see how at first he
tried to read it—in his usual way by applying it to the top of the
medium's head ;
—and then on realising the sort of thing it was, how
he crumpled it up and flung it into a corner with a grunt, holding
out his hand for something of interest. Needless to say, I did not
share in this estimate of value, and, after the sitting, was careful to
rescue the despised piece of paper from its perilous position.
End of comment upon the Isaac Thompson Series.
CHAPTER IV.
MESSAGES RECEIVED THROUGH MRS. THOMPSON.
The 'Myers' Controls.
Now let us enter upon the episodes where F. W. H. Myers was
supposed to be controlling, or at least communicating, while I was
present. I shall begin, however, with communications received not
through Mrs. Piper, but through other mediums. Most of the Piper-
Myers messages were obtained, and must be dealt with, by Mr.
Piddington ; because they often involve cross-correspondences, which
belong to his department of the work. Moreover, in the recent series
of sittings I had but few conversations with the Myers control as
modified or represented by Mrs. Piper—what we call the " Piper-
Myers " or Myersp. I fear I did not give him many chances, and one
day was rather rebuked by Rector for not affording the MyersP control
more opportunity for utterance. This was because I usually had some-
thing else ready that I wanted to try. So neither from MyersP nor
from HodgsonP did I get very much in these recent sittings.
And of course in the old days, 1889-90, both had been in full
vigour of life.
But it so happens that long before Mrs. Piper arrived, and very
soon after Mr. Myers's death, I had had a couple of unexpected
and exceptional sittings with the well-known Mrs. Thompson, at
that time still living at Hampstead. She had suspended sitting
altogether; but she kindly allowed myself and my wife to sit twice
with her, —she said she felt impelled to do so, —on two occasions
when she happened to be visiting friends in or near Birmingham.
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter IV. 199
Accordingly the first, and certainly the most striking, of the com-
munications that I have to report are not from the Piper-Myers, but
from the Thompson-Myers or Myersx.
There was a certain amount that was dramatic in these sittings
and a little substantial information concerning unknown facts which
I subsequently verified, together with a few which are not yet
verified and therefore perhaps erroneous.
Sittings with Mrs. Thompson.
Sittings with Mrs. Thompson are first reported on by several
members of the Society in Vol. 17; where there is first an
introduction by myself, with a posthumously published paper by
Myers (giving a history of this case on p. 69) ; then papers by Dr.
van Eeden, Mr. Piddington, Dr. Hodgson, Miss Johnson, and a long
.and important discussion with details by Mrs. Verrall.
A fairly full account of Mrs. Thompson's sittings and controls is
given by Mr. Piddington in Vol. 18, Proc. S.P.R. His remarks on
the trance are on pp. 106-7; also on pages 147 and 157. Those
who have read his report will know that her chief control repre-
sents itself as her deceased daughter Nelly, and that it talks in
semi-baby language, and with the kind of intelligence appropriate
to a clever child. Instances of '
Nelly's ' occasional modes of speech
are quoted on page 158, and again on p. 162, with further instructive
details on and about p. 209 and p. 221, Vol. 18.
Other controls are described on pp. 126-135. Some inter-relation
between '
Nelly ' and Miss Eawson are referred to about p. 207, and
a Gurney control on p. 301.
Mrs. Thompson was so well acquainted with Mr. Myers and his
family that no evidential importance can be attached to remarks and
messages concerning that family, obtained through her mediumship,
however natural they may be. These are therefore all omitted.
Reference to trivial facts and domestic affairs are good as evidence
only in the case of unknown strangers : in other cases they are
only of use as contributing to the dramatic character and personal
expression of the whole. From this point of view I regret some
omissions, which nevertheless have been considered necessary.
A further statement can be made. It may be recollected that
Dr. Hodgson experienced only poor sittings during his few oppor-
tunities of meeting Mrs. Thompson, that he accordingly formed an
unfavourable estimate of her powers, and published his views in
200 Sir Oliver Lodge, [part
Proc. S.P.R., Vol. 17, p. 138. But, speaking for myself, I form
my own opinions on the subject, and do not agree with his
criticisms ;
though doubtless the reader may be influenced thereby.
I now return to the description.
Mrs. Thompson's trance is an easy trance, not so complete or
striking as Mrs. Piper's, but it is a state of suspension, or partial
suspension, of ordinary consciousness, and is accompanied by a change
of voice and manner.
In the sitting which follows, '
Myers ' was represented as controlling
and speaking for part of the time, but the sittings began with the
" Nelly " control, and when the Myers control is not manifestly
intended to be speaking, the words may be taken as emanating
either from Nelly or from one or other of Mrs. Thompson's ordinary
controls—it does not matter which, since I am not studying Mrs.
Thompson's phenomena, but am giving what appear to be messages
from or about Myers, who died on 17 January, 1901.
The first sitting was on Thursday, 19 Feb. 1901, that is to say
just about a month after his decease. Present, only myself and wife
with Mrs. Thompson. At 6 o'clock the control Nelly began talking
about Myers, about whose death she had been for some time
incredulous. Indeed she had declared that she could not find him
anywhere and did not believe that he had come over. See J. G. P.'s
paper, Vol. 18, p. 240, also 238. But now she was just beginning
to admit the fact.
Tuesday, 19 February, 1901. Sitting with Mrs. Thompson at
225 Hagley Road, Birmingham. Notes by 0. J. L. and M. L..
6.0 p.m. I was allowed to go on his birthday to see him. They
will have plenty of work to do, for he has promised
to send messages to 74 people.
All the people said he was dead, but I did not believe
it ; and though I saw him, I thought he only came
over for his birthday like in a vision. But I see him
now. It is the truth, it is the truth (excitedly). Let
us see if he can talk sense. He was talking on the
platform with you. It was at a station by a race-course.
[I had met him at Liverpool ; seen him off from the
landing stage to America. But this is unimportant.]
He will come when he is more wakened up—before
9 o'clock. You be ready at 25 minutes to 9. He will
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter IV. 201
be awake by then. He would rather think and realise
for a little space by himself.
He is sensible, for a spirit.
Before you came, mother was praying. She said "Come
and tell the truth for truth's sake."
(At 6.30 Mrs. Thompson came to.)
Then we had dinner, and at 8.30 the Control Nelly appeared
again, saying
What is the matter with the little girl's throat 1 her ear
seems to have made her throat ache. One of yours—
twinkle one.
[This is of course a mere friendly interlude. One of my
twin daughters was often troubled with ear-ache about
this time.]
(Here there was an incipient attempt at a Myers control,
and an incident at a Club was referred to. Then
another control said)
Do you know he feels like the note-taker, not like the spirit
that has to speak. I think he will speak presently.
(A short interval of apparent discomfort, and then '
Myers
'
purported to communicate)
Lodge, it is not as easy as I thought in my impatience.
Gurney says I am getting on first rate. But I am
short of breath.
Oh, Lodge, it is like looking at a misty picture. I can
distinctly feel I ought to be taking a note of it. I do
not feel as if I were speaking, but it is best to record
it all.
Tell them I am more stupid than some of those I had to
deal with. Oh, Lodge, what is it when I see you ?
Was it the Albemarle Club we went to when I talked
about oh, it leaves off.
Sidgwick knows I am with him. He said that he saw me
in the morning of Oh, dear, it always leaves off
in the interesting places.
I can hear myself using Rosa Thompson's voice.
202 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
I want to convince Sidgwick. He says " Myers, now we
are together, you convince me that I am sending my
messages, and that she is not getting them from us some
way." He still wants me to show him. He says he saw
me in the morning of the day he went to Trevelyan.
He met Trevelyan, and he saw me first. I am trying
to show him the way. It is funny to feel myself talking
when it is not myself talking. It is no*- my whole self
talking. When I am awake I know where I am. Do
you remember the day I was with you here % When
I went home that day I was ill. I had such a bad
night. It is in my diary. It was in May, I think. I
Avas very ill. [This about Trevelyan seems to refer to
an incident dealt with by Mr. Piddington. See Proc.
Vol. 18, pp. 239, 241.]
[The description of the feeling of the control while engaged
in communication agrees closely with that of Dr.
Hodgson based upon his experience of Mrs. Piper.
See for instance Vol. 13, pages 366, 380, 404, 405.
And the forgetfultiess immediately following may be
compared with Rector's statement, p. 148 above.]
0. J. L. Do you want to say anything about the Society 1
What Society?
O. J. L. You remember the S.P.R.
Do not think that I have forgotten. But I have. I have
forgotten just now. Let me think. You know, Lodge,
when you have wanted a thing thirty or forty years,
and at last got it, you do not think of much else beside.
Let me think, and bit by bit give it you. I used to get
better evidence when I let them say what they wanted
to say.
They tell me it was my best love that Society. They will
help me.
What did Battersea say about itl
O. J. L. I do not know.
I am going to talk to you clearly and very distinctly in
April. I do not know my Mother's name now
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter IV. 203
What James gave me to make me sleep did not do me any
good.
There is plenty of good matter in those papers that I left,
.... if it is gone through. You remember the dis-
cussion there was over Hyslop's paper and its length ?
If it is put in too much detail, there is too much of
it; and yet if you put it fully it is there for those
who want it full ; and you can pick out the points
too
I was confused when I came here. I groped my way as if
through passages, before I knew I was dead. I thought
I had lost my way in a strange town, and I groped
my way along the passage. And even when I saw
people that I knew were dead, I thought they were
only visions.
I have not seen Tennyson yet by the way.
I am going to be bold and prophesy already. I am going
to see you in April. I am going to know who I am
by then.
0. J. L. And will you then read what you wrote in the envelope 1
What envelope 1 —I shall be told.
Ernest does not mind now. What do they mix me up with
him for? (Jocularly.) Do they think I want to shine
in his glory ?
[This was evidently a reference to the " Times " obituary
notice, which I had written, but to which some one in
the " Times " office appended a supplementary state-
ment that F. W. H. M. had been a joint translator of
Homer together with Walter Leaf and Andrew Lang
whereas it is public and general knowledge that this
was only true of his brother Ernest.]
I wanted you to do for me what I did for Sidgwick. [i.e.
write a notice in the Society's Proceedings.]
0. J. L. I am going to ; and so are Eichet and James.
Ah, Richet : Yes, Eichet knows me ; and James will do it
well.
204 Sir Oliver Lodge. [PART?
I never finished those letters I was writing—letters to be
published.
[Probably meaning the book " Human Personality."]
[Then the control seemed to change, and it went on] :
He says he must stay and try and help. He says, Bless him
when he has so much to do. He says " Brothers I have
none excepting Lodge." He wants Lodge to be President
if he dare spare the work ; but he says " Do not rope
yourself, but keep the group, keep the group together.
It will soon take care of itself."
0. J. L. We are trying to get Rayleigh.
That will be splendid, but that is too good to hope for. I
think it will be you. Thank you for being helpful to
him. You have helped him. Man's sympathy is more
helpful than anything else, and with sympathy every-
thing slips into place. Among the things which are not
evidential you get things which are. They must take
it all. Those that seek only the evidential things will
not get them.
There are so many he would like to help. He promised, and
he will have to.
When he comes in April he will remember a great deal more.
He will remember what he wrote for you in the envelope.
(Trance ends about 10.30 p.m.)
The impersonation at this sitting was really a remarkably vivid
and lifelike one. It occurred only a month after the death of
F. W. H. Myers, and the state of confusion in which the Myers
control found itself seemed very natural. Indeed, it would be
difficult for me to invent an experience or a communication more
reasonable and natural under the supposed circumstances than what
we actually got. The necessity for still "convincing Sidgvvick
struck us as amusingly characteristic ; so did several other little
traits, such as that Myers " felt as if he ought to be taking notes "
a point on which F. W. H. M. was always specially insistent. And
as to his temporary forgetfulness of the existence of the S.P.R.,.
though it will probably be pounced upon as an absurdity by scoffers,,
and though it was of course quite unexpected, yet even that struck.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter IV.
us at the time as humanly natural and interesting. And indeed so
it does now. (Compare Rector's statement on p. 148.) With the
portions omitted and everything taken into account, this sitting seems
to me about the best of the Myers sittings in which I have been
immediately concerned. "Without being strictly evidential, it was in
fact as convincing as anything that could be imagined of that kind.
This was in February, 1901. A further communication was pro-
mised for April, but no opportunity for another sitting came until
May 8th, and then it came quite unexpectedly and without being
arranged for. In fact at that time it was unlikely that any sitting
would occur, since we had all been definitely told that they were
suspended, or rather that they were intended henceforth to cease.
Second Thompson Sitting at Edgbaston.
On May 8th, 1901, Mrs. Thompson happened to come to Birmingham
again to see her connexions there ; and she incidentally visited us
at our temporary house in the Hagley Road.
I made the following contemporary notes, and it seems to me
worth while to reproduce them as a representation of the circum-
stances of the case at this time.
From 0. J. L's Note-booh, 9 May, 1901.
After dinner Mrs. Thompson spontaneously asked Mrs. Lodge to
take her up into my study, saying as she went upstairs that she
felt only half conscious, and as if she were going off.
Upstairs we three alone sat and talked for some time.
At last " Nelly " appeared and notes began : Mrs. Lodge taking
them as well as myself. Mrs. Lodge spoke no word during the
trance from first to last.
The sitting was dim and unsatisfactory and in most respects
apparently at the time a failure. It lasted about an hour and a
half, one continuous trance, and at the end Mrs. Thompson was
much agitated j not exhausted, but weepy ;
saying how much she
disliked the idea of coming back to consciousness and leaving the
conditions in which she had just been. She said she had no re-
collection of what had been said ; and this appeared to be the case.
She also told me, before the sitting began, that of late she had
been quite unconscious of any communications, that is to say, she
could not remember their contents, but that she was under the
206 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
impression that during the last month or so she had had three or
four trances when no one was there, at different times, and that
once she found herself waking on the floor with a feeling of great
satisfaction and contentment.
She further said that the sudden cutting off of all attempts at
communication had been a great blow to her and seemed to upset
her physically to some extent. Also that she had been promised
something for her birthday, April 22nd,—evidently connecting it
with me. 'Nelly' had indeed promised me a sitting in April,
[as recorded in last sitting] though not for any particular date.
But it seems she had expected it on the 22nd. However I had
no sitting in April—nothing till this May 8th.
The difficulties of clear utterance at times rendered it necessary
for me to help the ideas out, or anticipate them as far as I could.
My notes aim at recording the sense of what was intended, and can
only be of interest to those who understand.
Additional Note written on 11 May, 1901.
The above was dictated before copying the notes, and gives my
contemporary impression of the sitting ; but on reading over the
notes I find them better than I expected ; and now think that
though at the time it seemed a bad sitting to everybody concerned,
it is not really bad ;
though the utterances were so feeble and
confused that to a novice it would have been nearly all gibberish.
A little gibberish remains undeciphered in places ; but is recorded
in case any meaning can be attached to it. I do not think it is
gibberish really, —only as heard and taken down. It probably had
sense if it could have been heard and understood, though most
likely not at all important sense.
Second Sitting with Mrs. Thompson at 225 Hagley Road,
Birmingham, 8 May, 1901, from 9.0 till 10.30 p.m.
Present—O. J. L. and M. L., both taking notes.
(Nelly speaking.)
Professor Lodge, what is that umbrella they have put up
and made it all dark ? I wish they would take it away.
(Further indications followed that she had tried to com-
municate but found it dark.)
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter IV. 207
[This evidently refers to the suspension of sittings ; Mrs.
Thompson, for some private reason, having declined to
sit for the last few months, and only doing it now
as a special favour, and because she felt internally urged
to do so.]
I have not seen Mr. Myers, not once ; I have not seen him
since they put that umbrella up.
Nelly then appealed to me to try and believe her and receive
her statements sympathetically and not with an undercurrent of
suspicion, explaining that such undercurrent befogged her, and that
she could give me better things if I was sympathetic. I asked her
not to regard me as in any way hostile, and she said "No, I do
not feel like that to any of the Marshall family." This remark was
not amplified, nor did it seem understood by Nelly herself.
It is perhaps worth noting incidentally that my grandmother and
my wife's father were both Marshalls, though no relation whatever
to each other, nor to Frederic Myers's relations of that name.
Nelly then sent a few messages to Mr. Piddington, and incidentally
remarked that she felt as if in a pound in the middle of a field,
and as if she could not see clearly the people on the other side of
the enclosure, and that communication was very difficult and not
clear to-day.
Then followed some convulsive movements and a sort of internal
colloquy of which only fragments were audible. They appeared
however to indicate a confused conversation between Nelly and Mr.
Myers, Nelly asking him to come in, and Mr. Myers saying that
he had been told not, —that he had understood the communications
were suspended for a time.
But this was only an impression gathered from the confused
mutterings. A further impression was that Mr. Myers mistrusted
the presence of a third person and was being reassured by Nelly
that it was only Mrs. Lodge.
It's only Mrs. Lodge whom you love.
No I don't love her.
It's only Lodge's wife, who will help.
More than I anticipated much more.
With other barely intelligible fragments of internal colloquy.
208 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Ultimately the conversation with me began again but in a very-
halting and indistinct fashion, no marked personality at all, some-
what as if Nelly were half giving messages and half personating
Mr. Myers, and doing both badly and with difficulty.
The following however are my notes of what was said :—
Mr. Myers is worrying about something connected with Mr.
Sidgwick, something that was not understood or that
was not put down. He [H. S.] had some Jews in College
and he could not do it on a Saturday.
Tell Feilding that he is doing something that is waste of
time. The Times said something about it and said it
was valuable.
[But I understood the communicator to mean that it was
not. I do not know what Avork is being referred
to.]
The first shock to my dearest hopes.
So stupid not to tell them what I wished.
The time was gradually passing.
You know Sidgwick and I had many disappointments like
this [when communications would not come clear?]
I thought I should do better, but I cannot, [cf. p. 227.]
We had many, a year, a hundred, at Newcastle. Bitter
disappointments.
But when I can give pound [muddle]
Given a grain and found as much as would have been, for
Sidgwick, in that hundred.
Mrs. Sidgwick was cold on a brick floor.
A hundred results nil.
It is true Lodge it is true.
I tried on the Sunday with.
I saw the receptacle, but not this one. It was Hodgson and
Smith and I. We were all in my room together, and I
told him.
I told him I would find no difficulty, if he were in difficulty, in
putting things straight
But it is.
[Meaning that it was much harder than he thought.]
I thought I knew better than be such a miserable failure.
I thought I would come and read it.
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter IV. 209
[Apparently or possibly meaning the sealed letter.]
I had gone away. I thought I was not to communicate now.
It is not the time now.
I wished you would all write to me. I was so far away. I
pined to hear from you all.
My philosophy did not help me much.
I feel just as lonely. Lodge, it is just as they say, you
grope in fog and darkness.
I do not know, when I come to talk to you, about the other
side.
But I must do as I promised.
I feel I am selfish still.
I wanted it for my own satisfaction.
Further indications that the conditions under which he was were
not altogether to his liking, not at least when trying to communicate
and also further statements that he could not very clearly realise the
conditions on that side when he was trying to communicate, and
that now he was wishful to pass on and up and not stay to redeem
his promises.
Is the typhoid better 1
What are you doing in this place 1
[Apparently meaning strange and unfamiliar surroundings,
the temporary house in Birmingham which I had taken,
and which he had never seen.]
I had plenty of this kind of unsatisfactory experience [meaning
bad sittings.]
James went with me.
I seemed to be taken from all my pain and suffering into
light.
I hardly like to tell you what I wanted to do, it seems so
selfish now, but I wanted to go and talk to Tennyson,
whom I idolised. But I was told that I must suffer for
my promises, and then I could have what I wanted.
I wish I had not been taken so far : it makes it difficult
to communicate.
Then—referring, as I thought at the time, to Mrs. Thompson's
tranee which she had told me of, when she woke up and found
0
210 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
herself on the floor, but perhaps more probably referring to one of
the incidents mentioned by Mr. Piddington in Proc, Vol. 18,
pp. 147, 148—the Medium went on,
I did not throw her on the floor.
It was Talbot—Talbot Forbes.
It was not I. I wanted her to know I was there, but Talbot
only wanted her to tell his Mother.
Why does she [meaning apparently the Medium] pray to me
and beg me to come, when she knows I want to be
cleansed from earth first 1 I do not want her to fetch
me back at all times.
They keep on calling me. I am wanted everywhere. I
hear them calling, and I cannot tell who it is at first.
They tell me I am wanted. But I want to concentrate
in a few places, or in one place, and not to be split up.
Do appeal to them not to break me up so, and leave me
not clear in one spot.
1 am only one now, and the noise of you all calling makes
me feel I cannot. Someone is calling me now.
What did Miss Edmunds want with me ? On Friday she
called.
[A letter from America referring to this, May 3rd, arrived
later.]
Tell Kichet I shall meet him in Rome. I shall speak to
him in Rome on the third day of the Congress.
I heard them describing how I died, and I could not stop
them.
[Referring apparently to some unpublished Piper sittings
in America.]
I could not say it, but they were translating like a schoolboy
does his first lines of Virgil—so terribly confused and
inaccurate. But somehow I could not help it. It was
not me communicating, yet I saw it going on. They
had something from me on the 15th.
I tried to communicate on a 15th.
[These things are referred to in Mrs. Verrall's report. Proc,
Vol. 20, pp. 207-9. See also Notes below.]
lviii.J On Trance Communications, Chapter IV. 211
I tried by writing.
Moses—Stainton Moses.
They mixed the deaths up—his death and my death. It
applies to him and not to me.
[Apparently referring to some unpublished and to me
unknown account of the death-bed.]
How easy to promise and how difficult to fulfil.
Make one appeal to them to let me be at rest for two
or three weeks after they get the note. After Hodgson
hears that I have tried, however badly, ask him not
to call me, and tell him that if he does, they will not
let me hear him. I have gone back from where I was
that night. I could hear what she (the Medium) was
saying, and keep a check on it, but now I cannot hear
what is being said : I can only think the things, and
false things may creep in without my knowing it.
Have you ten days work in a week? I cannot protect
you from the calls upon you as they may protect me.
Do you not think, Mrs. Lodge, he has ten days work
a week 1
(Then the Nelly Control reappears.)
Professor Lodge, do you know I have seen such a funny
thing. I have seen Mr. Myers talking as if to a stick
right through Mother's body ; and while he was talk-
ing to it some one came up and touched it, and it all
got confused, and he could not think why it went
funny.
He seems to have to talk through this stick, and yet it
keeps on being interfered with by other people.
I wish Mother was not so wicked ; because when Mr. Myers
wants to go to sleep and be quiet, Mother will not
let him. She will call him. You must tell her not
to. Tell her it is wicked to call him. When he wants
to go to sleep and be quiet she keeps him back. She
must not do it.
[I promised to give her the message ; which I did after
the trance, and she then admitted that she thought of
him frequently and urgently, but that she would try to
refrain.]
212 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
(Nelly went on,)
Do you know last Monday when I went to Dr. Van Eeden's
house ; he called for me and we went. Mr. Myers came
and told me he was calling. We both went, yes, on
Monday. He has got an impression that Mr. Myers
helped him to call me. Mr. Myers said "Let us go
and see '
old Whiskers ' in his little bed and laugh at
him." He is much more lively when he is talking to
me, and much more wakened up than when he is talk-
ing down that stick. [Cf. Proc. S.P.E. Vol. 18, p. 201.]
But he does seem worried, he gets no rest. Some one has
called him in a glass bottle—yes, a crystal.
Oh yes, and he said it was not he that wrote when Miss
Kawson wrote and said he told her. But it was not
he that was writing. You know when ; Miss Rawson
wrote two very full sheets in the middle of a Gurney
letter. [Perhaps referring to the incident recorded on
p. 224.] He said it was not he, but neither was it fraud.
He does not want you to stop the phenomenon. He
wants to study it. You are not to say that it was
wrong and get it stopped. He likes to watch the
somnambulistic thing at work. It is not he that is
doing it, and yet he is looking on.
He does not see how it is worked, but he finds this more
interesting than the genuine communications.
He did not rattle the curtains either. Eva—now do not
think I am talking about Mrs. Myers, but Mrs. Eva
they had a shaking of the curtain, and thought it was
he. It was not he, but it was not cheating, and he
does not want you to make them think that they are
cheats He does not know how it is worked, but he
is studying, and he thinks it will help a great deal
if he can understand how the cheating things that are
not cheats are done. It is not cheating, and yet it is
not him doine; it. . . . There was no stick that went
through any one's body there.
He says that others tell him it was just the same with
them. Sometimes when he thought they were com-
municating they were not, and yet they knew about it.
" He says he is finding out how honest non-phenomena are
to be accounted for.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter IV. 213
Apparently dishonest phenomena are phenomena of extreme
[interest ?] apart from the spirit which purports to be
communicating."
[This last part was slowly recited by Nellie, like a lesson
not understood by her.]
I can't help what he says.
I must go now.
(End of sitting 10.30 p.m.)
Notes on this Sitting.
Some of the remarks reported above seem to indicate a connexion
with statements made in Mrs. Verrall's automatic writing of the same
period, about which Mrs. Thompson knew nothing. Thus there
appears a certain similarity between the remark " Mr. Myers is
worrying about something connected with Mrs. S." and the attempts
misunderstood at the time—in Mrs. Verrall's script between April 19
and May 8, as related in Proceedings Vol. 20, pp. 195-198, to
describe where Mrs. Sidgwick was to look for something of the
nature of a book. Again " I tried on the Sunday with—I saw
the receptacle but not this one " may perhaps be connected with
the sudden impulse on Sunday, March 17th {Proceedings, Vol. 20,
p. 221), which induced Mrs. Verrall to write automatically and
which produced the first reference to Mrs. Forbes in what eventually
became a long series of cross-correspondences between those two
automatists.
Finally, there seems a close correspondence between the above
remarks as to difficulties produced by simultaneous efforts at com-
munication and similar observations in Mrs. Verrall's script of the
same day and approximately the same hour (Proceedings, Vol. 20,
pp. 207-209). Thus in Mrs. Thompson's sitting the Myers control
speaks of " the noise of you all calling makes me feel I cannot.
Someone is calling me now"; he also says "false things may creep
in"; and the Nelly control describes how, just before, "someone came
up and touched" the stick through which communication was being
made, "and it all got confused." While Mrs. Verrall's automatic
script of Monday, May 8th, 10-10.30 p.m., concludes as from the
Myers control with the words: "falsehood is never far away, What
do you want with me. I cannot No power, doing
something else to-night. Note hour." The initial '
H ' with which
the message is there signed was a substitution for the real initial,
214 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
because that purported to represent F.W.H.M.; and in those early-
days of Mrs. Verrall's writing it was thought safer to treat this as
mere impersonation.
The correspondence can be shown by a statement in parallel
columns, as follows :
May 8, 1901.
Mrs. Thompson Mrs. Verrall
Birmingham Cambridge
9-10.30 p.m. 10-10.30 p.m.
1. "I cannot." 1. " Non possum (I cannot)."
"No power."
2. " Some one is calling me now." 2. " Doing something else to-night."
3. "Let me be at rest." 3. "Desine (leave off)."
4. "False things may creep in." 4. "Falsehood is never far away."
The utterances of Mrs. Thompson were not known to Mrs. Verrall
when she wrote the script reported in her paper, Proc, Vol. 20 ; but
the correspondence is mentioned there on pages 207 et seq.
Further Notes on the Thompson Myers Sittings.
The rather strikingly worded complaints and requests recorded
above (p. 210), as received through Mrs. Thompson,
" They keep on calling me. I am wanted everywhere ....
Do appeal to them not to break me up so ... .
How easy to promise and how difficult to fulfil. Make one
appeal to them to let me be at rest for two or three
weeks."
also correspond with something to the same effect independently
received through Miss Rawson three months earlier ; and constitute
what may be fairly considered another cross-correspondence. This
message, received on Feb. 7th, 1901, purported to come from
Edmund Gurney, who was represented as speaking through Miss
Rawson as follows, (see for fuller report below, pp. 223-5).
" I have come to warn you for my friend to implore you
not to let them call him. He gets no rest day or night.
At every sitting '
Call Myers ! Bring Myers '
; there's
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter IV. 215
not a place in England where they don't ask for him
it disturbs him, it takes away his rest. For God's sake
don't call him. It is all right for him to come of his
own accord. . . . What Ave want for him now is to
rise, and to forget the earthly things.
He can't help any more. His life was given to it, and that
must be the help. He was allowed just to say that he
continued. That was his great desire, but it will help
nobody that he should be called back, and made to hover
near the earth. In fact it will only make him earth-
bound.
I am tempted to quote here, from page 213 of Proc, Vol. 21, a
different though not altogether dissimilar extract from the script
of Mrs. Holland in India which was written on January 5th and
•6th, 1904, by the MyersH control:
" Oh if I could only get to them—could only leave you the
proof positive that I remember—recall —know—continue
I have thought of a simile which may help you
to realise the '
bound to earth condition ' which persists
with me. It is a matter very largely of voluntary choice
—I am, as it were, actuated by the missionary spirit
and the great longing to speak to the souls in prison
still in the prison of the flesh—leads me to '
absent me
from felicity awhile.'
"
This clearly expresses the idea of service to which I refer later,
-and it is a reverberation and later expansion of the thought expressed
in the extracts already quoted, which had not been published and
were not known to Mrs. Holland. But the long post-dating of this
last communication destroys any claim to consideration as a cross-
correspondence. Besides it was only an explanation of why the
messages still willingly continued ; whereas the other two—so soon
after the death—are full of earnestness and anxiety.
General Remarks, addressed to religious objectors.
Good and earnest though moderately intelligent religious people
sometimes seek to pour scorn upon the reality of any of these
apparent communications—not for any scientific reason, but for
reasons born of prejudice. They think that it is not a worthy
occupation for "just men made perfect" "who have entered into
felicity " to be remembering trivial and minute details, under
216 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
circumstances of exceptional difficulty, for the purpose of proving
to those left behind the fact of survival and the continuance of
personal identity. It is taken for granted that saints ought to be
otherwise occupied in their new and lofty and favoured conditions.
What may or may not be possible to saints, it is hardly for me
or other gropers among mere terrestrial facts to surmise: nor am I
anxious to imagine that all our communicators belong to the cate-
gory of '
perfected and glorified saints,'—it seems to me, I confess,
singularly unlikely ; nor is it necessary to suppose that such exercises
as we report—even if they are fully and entirely what they pretend
to be—constitute any large proportion of the activity of the people
who are professedly concerned in their production—people who are
confessedly far from perfection and who have still much to learn.
And as regard dignity and appropriateness, does it not sometimes
happen that an Archbishop or a Savant is found willing to play a
frivolous childish game, and otherwise to disport himself, in spite
of his being on the brink of eternity in a world of sorrow and
sin 1
But seriously, is it not legitimate to ask these good people
whether, if an opportunity of service to brethren arises, an effort
to seize it may not be made even by a saint ? Whether this notion
of perennial service is not in accordance with their own doctrines
and beliefs 1 and whether they are not impressed by that clause
in the creed of most Christians which roundly asserts that their
Master descended into Hades 1 for purposes which in another
place are suggested. Whereby they may learn that, even after
such a Life and Death as that, Felicity was not entered into
save after an era of further personal service of an efficient kind.
Those who interpret the parables in such a way as to imagine
that dignified idleness is the occupation of eternity —that there
will be nothing to do hereafter but idly to enjoy the beatific con-
templation and other rewards appropriate to a well-spent life or to
well-held creeds, —free from remorse of every kind, and without any
call for future work and self-sacrifice, —such people will probably
some day find themselves mistaken, and will realise that as yet
they have formed a very inadequate conception of what is meant
by that pregnant phrase " the Joy of the Lord."
Remarks concerning the nature of the record.
For the purpose of making the record, which was written out
very soon after the sitting, notes were taken continuously both by
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter IV. 217
my wife and by myself. The record is built out of both these,
eked out by memory, and is substantially true, though I \>y no
means guarantee verbal accuracy everywhere.
When anything depends on verbal accuracy, as it does in some
cases of cross-correspondence, the writing sittings are far better
than oral ones, and the original script must always be referred to
for doubtful or specially interesting points.
My record aims at giving a true representation, and at conveying
to the reader, as far as possible, an impression of the circumstances,
the substance, and the manner of the communications,—an impression
which shall be fairly correct even though not lifelike and vivid.
I have not the slightest interest in attempting to coerce belief
of any kind. The facts will make different kinds of appeal to
different people, and to some they will not appeal at all. These
will regard the whole business with contempt and pity. They are
within their rights in doing so if they have conscientiously read
this and the other records. As a rule however that is where they
are apt to fail ; and when a person's knowledge of a subject is
minute, we may be pardoned for holding his opinion concerning it
in light esteem.
Those who think that there is anything sensational or specially
emotional in this sort of conversation are mistaken. The conversa-
tion is conducted on the same lines as a telephonic conver-
sation : it is liable to the same sort of annoying interruptions, and
likewise to the same occasional surprising gleams of vividness,
a happy turn of phrase, for instance, a tone of the voice, and other
unmistakable and unexpected revelation of identity—forged or real
such as may be conveyed by an appropriate nickname or by some
trivial reminiscence. When this happens, and when relatives are
present, their emotions are certainly perturbed.
These remarks are general, and are applicable to this whole group
reported on by me : they are not limited in their application to
any one particular series.
Specific Comments by 0. J. L.
To me the most interesting of the whole are the concluding
observations, part of which were carefully and laboriously reported
by the "Nelly" control, —the words sounding odd in a childish
voice.
Whatever their origin, they do, in my judgment, represent the truth
about a good many of these phenomena—that is to say, that they
218 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
are not precisely what their surface-aspect implies, yet neither are
they fraud. They are attempts at doing something rather beyond
the power of the operators, —who arrive approximately at their
aim without achieving what they want exactly. They are trying to
get something definite through, let us say, and something like it comes.
Occasionally they hardly know how it comes, it is a puzzle to them
as to us, and often they don't know what it is that we have got ; but
sometimes they too seem to be spectators, aware of the result, and
to be worried by the misconception and misunderstanding which they
see will arise, but which they are powerless to prevent, —except, as
here, by trying to instruct us and awaken our intelligences into a
condition in which we too can understand and grapple with the
unavoidable difficulties of the situation.
"I can only think the things": seems to me likely to be an
accurate description of the method. It is a telepathic method, and
the reproduction by voice or pen is a supplementary and only
barely controllable process. And, as reported above, the process of
communication is instructively described as from that side thus : —
" I could not say it, but they were translating like a school-
boy does his first lines of Virgil—so terribly confused
and inaccurate. But somehow I could not help it. It
was not me communicating, yet I saw it going on. . . .
I can only think the things, and false things may creep
in without my knowing it."
" He said it was not he, but neither was it fraud. He does not
want you to stop the phenomenon, he wants to study it.
You are not to say it was wrong and get it stopped. He
likes to watch the somnambulistic thing at work. It is not
he that is doing it, and yet he is looking on. He does
not see how it is worked, but he finds this more interesting
than the genuine communications. He did not rattle the
curtains either . . . but it was not cheating, and he does
not want you to make them think that they are cheats.
He does not know how it is worked, but he is studying
and he thinks it will help a great deal if he can understand
how the cheating things that are not cheats are done.
[And then came the laborious sentences]
He says he is finding out how honest non-phenomena are to
be accounted for. Apparently dishonest phenomena are
lviit.] On Trance Communications, Chapter IV. 219
phenomena of extreme [interest] apart from the spirit
which purports to be communicating.
It was characteristic also of Myers to feel as if he were the note-
taker, not the communicator, and that he ought to be putting it all
down (p. 201). Another amusing episode was the persistence of
Prof. Sidgwick's incredulity (p. 202), so that he was represented
as asking to be convinced that he was himself communicating, and
that the medium was not " getting it out of him somehow."
The coincidence in time between the termination of this sitting
at Birmingham and some writing obtained by Mrs. Verrall at
Cambridge, as exhibited in the analytical statement above, on
page 214, is very remarkable and worth careful notice—especially
when the unexpected character of the Thompson sitting is taken
into account. It really makes an effective cross-correspondence.
These observations terminate this account of communications
received through the mediumship of Mrs. Thompson.
An immense mass has been obtained through her in the past
(see Reports in Vols. 17 and 18), but so far as I know these are
the last two sittings or among the last sittings which she has given.
We owe her thanks for the time and opportunity which she has freely
accorded to members of the Society for scientific purposes.
I now pass to messages received through a lady known to leading
members of the Society, but who desires to remain anonymous.
CHAPTER V.
Messages Obtained Through Miss Rawson.
It is perhaps doubtful whether the following series of messages,
with the reception of which I was in no way concerned, ought to
be included in this paper or reported at all. Doubtless a great
number of communications ostensibly purporting to come from Mr.
Myers have been received through many mediums, and some of
them I have seen. For the most part I regard these as valueless,
—as not even plausibly lifelike representations of the person sup-
posed to be communicating. But on the spiritistic hypothesis it
must be admitted as likely that Miss Rawson—a lady well known
to Mr. Myers, whose hand sometimes writes while she remains
conscious—would be one of the channels of communication employed
by a posthumous Myers-like activity ; and accordingly when com-
220 Sir Oliver Lodge, [part
munications coming through this channel are specially sent to me,
I do not feel at liberty to suppress them. They do not in fact
fall into the category of things which we may safely ignore : they
must be regarded as part of the psychological evidence ; and in so
far as they differ in tone with what is received through the two
entranced mediums with whom I have been myself chiefly concerned,
we can, as before, discriminate and attribute them to what we may
call a MyersR.
Until there is evidence to the contrary we are bound to assume
that writings done by people who are not in any kind of trance
can hardly fail to be greatly influenced by their own normal con-
sciousness, as well as largely controlled by their normal sub-conscious-
ness. It may be instructive therefore to interpose among the trance
communications a specimen of this other kind of perfectly honest
and sincere record.
The following is an extract which I have been kindly allowed to
make from one of the note-book records kept of Miss Rawson's trance
speech and script. I received and had it copied out of the book
in March, 1901.
For a brief account of the lady called Miss Rawson, see Mr.
Piddington's paper in Vol. 18, p. 294.
Extracts from Note-book of Miss Rawson's trance utterances, as
recorded by the Experimenter in charge (who is anonymous but
known to me).
The extracts which follow are entirely of the unevidential order
but since the book is an honest record of what purported to be a
series of communications, I think it wise to publish some, since it
forms part of my scheme to illustrate the general character of the
communications, in so far as it can be done in moderate compass.
The hypothesis that all this matter is a product of the subliminal
activity of the medium is a feasible one ; no one hypothesis fits all the
facts. But, of course, if Miss Rawson had never given evidential
matter on other occasions, and in respect of other persons and events,
her script and utterances would be totally disregarded.
Dec. 22, 1900. Message from H. S., with F. W. H. M. himself
present, (unimportant).
Jan. 11, 1901. Message from H. S. Tell Myers to tell my
wife not to put in the whole of the last chapters of the
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter V. 221
book she is finishing. She will know the passages she
feels doubtful about. Tell him it is really I who am here.
This was spoken with hesitation and stuttering just as in life j
'
last ' was a difficult word and repeated twice. The last sentence
was very difficult, as the power seemed to be going. [Myers was
alive then ; he died on Jan. 17.]
Jan. 23, 1901. H. S. I have not seen my dear friend Myers
yet, but I am more thankful that I can say that he has
come here. The circle above has been waiting for him,
and will with great joy welcome him.
[17 January, 1901, was the date of his death.]
(What is the work of the circle above 1)
It is to attest his work, to make a school above to corre-
spond with the school on earth. His wonderful power
of organisation will not be lost here.
The world is not so ready as he thought.
We shall work together again.
Jan. 26, 1901. F. Myers, (very faint voice.) I am at rest;
my body is laid where I wished, and my soul is free.
I told you if possible I should return. Little did we
think when, not a month ago, I stood beside you, telling
you that all my happiness was on the other side, that
I should again stand beside you, having obtained that
happiness. I thank you a thousand times for making
[this] meeting . . . possible, for it confirmed what I had
been told, which I was never quite certain of, how far
my desire controlled the spirit speaking. But when I
was assured . . . then calm and content came to me,
never to leave me again.
And through the last great struggle those blessed words
.... were ever present with me, and made my physical
suffering a thing to be borne to obtain the greatest
desire of my heart.
Thank God, it was and is true.
Later I can do more. I am supremely happy.
Jan. 30, 1901. F. TV. H. Myers. I have come back as I
told you I should on that last day at the Grand Hotel.
222 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
I shall return through Mrs. Thompson. My great wish
was to come back and tell you that I am still living,
and things are to a great extent as I had pictured them.
I know now that it will be impossible for me to inhabit
[this medium] to give many messages but it will be my
privilege to come now and then to your circle to give
you the higher evidence that it will be impossible always
to secure through the other mediums that I work with.
I prepared my place and I must go to it. I prepared Mrs.
Thompson, and she will carry on the work, but it will
not be for long that I shall come back.
I understand now the full meaning of what I had only half
realised in the subliminal consciousness. I can separate
the two now, and know how far conscious thought and
unconscious thought are dependent one on the other,
and I can fully apprehend their indivisibility. That's
where I made my mistake. I believed them to be separate,
but now find they are merely two sides of the same thing
—the unconscious self is the sleeping conscious self, and
the conscious self is the reflection of the spiritual man,
and that light, reason, and discernment come from one
and the same source.
I want to thank you for what you did for me.
I was unable to, then, but my wife will give you my messages,
they were left with her. I shall return again.
Feb 3, 1901. (5 p.m.) F. IF. II. M. letter.
As soon as Miss Tiawson was entranced she got up from the sofa,
crossed the room to the writing table, hunted for a sheet of writing
paper and pen and ink, and then wrote a letter ;
put it in an
envelope and addressed it.
The room was not quite dark and I stood by her and watched
her throughout. When she sat down again, I took the letter and
found to my surprise it was addressed to me at [a certain address].
The letter runs as follows :
"My dear ... I spoke to you at our last meeting of my
intense wish to [be] on the other side
My wish is accomplished. I am now at peace.
I am sending you a message later through Mrs. Thompson
and you will then understand all I said to you.
F. W. H. Myers."
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter V. 223
The control said later that F. M. could not speak because he was
not inside the medium ; he pushed her along.
Feb. 7. 1901.
While waiting for a friend to come in to begin the sitting, Miss
Kawson suggested that we should sit in the dark and she would
perhaps see something. The lamp was turned down and she at
once saw a bright mist in corner of room, out of which gradually
emerged the face of a tall man with moustache, blue tie, black coat
he advanced towards her waving his hand and evidently most anxious
to communicate. She repeated the alphabet and he waved his hand
at the right letter. She spelt out Edmund Gurney.
The friend then came in and the sitting began.
E. G. at once controlled the medium.
" I have come to warn you for my friend to implore you
not to let them call him. He gets no rest day or night.
At every sitting 'Call Myers! Bring Myers,' there's not
a place in England where they don't ask for him ; it disturbs
him, it takes away his rest. For God's sake don't call
him. It is all right for him to come of his own accord.
You might send a letter to Light to say that when a great
person passes you mustn't call for him.
Don't mention Myers' name, our people wouldn't like it. . . .
His heart is tender and when he hears them call, he tries
to come. If they leave him to rest, in time he'll come
back again more strong, but if they call and call it will take
away the power and help and everything else. . . .
Feb. 9. 1901.
F. W. H. M. "Really, really this is delightful.
. . . , I never thought to meet you here. It was all true
we had not deceived ourselves. Thank you for giving me
the power to come. We wrote and sat so often together
in the old days ; sometimes the results were good, sometimes
not at all. You are strong, very strong. Thank you so
much. I could not thank you at the same time.
has iny message for you. I believe in the touch now.
Your testimony, . . . , was most valuable—you've done a
great deal for the cause —I gave my life for it. It must be
carried on. I talked about it the last two days. I
do hope my wishes will be carried out, though it's not
easy. . . .
224 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
They don't know how one consciousness can merge into
another . . . our lives are only given us to learn how to
help humanity, but it will take us thousands of years to
learn it . . . we must ignore the conscious self sometimes, and
let the unconscious self have a chance . . I implore you
not to lose the least scrap of evidence. It is only by
putting down all the scraps you make a mosaic.
Feb. 10. 1901.
F. W. H. M. (by raps)
'Your friend is here.' Then the medium saw F. M. in Mr.
[White's] body. She went into a trance and spoke.
He's there. He's in Mr. [White.] He is lying on a brown
bed, and he has got violets, and his eyes are shut, and
beside him is standing another Mr. Myers, and the other
one has picked up some of the violets,
—That's the curious experience—He is tied
to it yet, and has to hold the cord of light in his hand
he can't leave go. He is in you Mr. [White] still, but
he is in bed, and standing beside the bed. He dictated
three letters the day before he died—important letters,
and left a paper for Richet. ( . . ) You'll hear through
another source in 10 days' time a curious circumstance
of his illness and death. You'll hear it at a place you'll
go to after a little from here. [The gentleman here called
Mr. White is generally recognised as possessor of some
occult powers.]
Feb. 16. 1901.
During the sitting Miss Eawson suddenly got up and went across
the room to the writing table, and wrote a note in pencil pur-
porting to come from F. M. We could not read it.
Mar. 17. 1901. London.
Edmund Gurney.
It will be no advantage to my friend to be kept down for
communication with the groups he prepared.
What we want for him now is to rise, and to forget the
earthly things. He can't help any more. His life was
given to it, and that must be the help. He was allowed
just to say that he continued. That was his great desire,
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter V. 225
but it will help nobody that he should be called back,
and made to hover near the earth. In fact it will only
make him earthbound. So tell all those who tried to
persuade him to come, ... to receive the messages that
will be sent now and again, but never permanently.
Another control.
The mistake Myers made was, he thought the finite could
control the infinite ; so he gathered groups and did his
best to train them into working order, to carry out his
design. This was not a good thing to do —mapping out
work to do under different conditions which he did
not understand. He made promises, but did not know
if he could fulfil them or not ; and now he knows
these different groups will have to go on as they
began, not with communications direct from the other
side, but communications attracted to a centre and
given out in a revised form.
If you pass over with a fixed idea of which you have sown
the seed, and which you have nourished up until it is a
tree, you must wait till the tree withers and dies, you
can't sweep away the idea in a second.
I have seen Myers, he is perfectly happy ; he finds many of
his theories difficult to work.
I believe Mrs. T. to be quite honest and straightforward.
March 19.
" Myers is here, but will not be able to speak himself.
I shall speak for him. He is not so near, and not so real
as he was. This means that he is soon leaving the earth
plane and going to rise higher.
He is being personated right and left.
He is being used as a peg to hang innumerable hats and
coats on. He came to thank you and to say that as
you prayed for others at a sitting when he was present,
so he hopes you will pray for him now.
"
In concluding this chapter I must once more call attention to the
caution and explanation with which it opened. These scripts repre-
sent a genuine phenomenon, and are therefore of interest to students
of psychical matters, although it is quite possible that a hostile critic
P
226 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
may here find part of the pabulum necessary for making every effort
of the kind appear ridiculous. Whether this portion, or the subsequent
commonplace dialogue carried on through Mrs. Piper, or such of the
unverifiable communications as were reported, in Chap. II., will appear
the more humorous when regarded from the scoffer's point of view,
I am unable to judge. Nor need the question deeply concern us.
CHAPTER VI.
Messages of the Myers and Hodgson controls received
by 0. J. L. through Mrs. Piper.
Autumn Series.
Coming now to communications obtained through Mrs. Piper, the
" Myers " messages were, as I said before, not specially useful or
impressive : partly perhaps because I did not give this control much
chance. They were far less interesting than those reported in
Chap. IV.
The dramatic aspect of the " Myers " communications, being not
specially striking, I shall no longer trouble to quote what imme-
diately preceded or followed them, but shall give as a rule only
the substance of the message ;
together with such facts of date
and circumstance as shall enable easy reference to the original MS.
whenever necessary.
I had at first thought of collecting the MyersP and the HodgsonP
scripts separately, but inasmuch as they deal with a similar class
of subject, as a rule, there seems no particular gain in separating
them ; and perhaps there may be some convenience in retaining
them in the actual order in which they occurred —omitting only the
irrelevant parts and such as were concerned altogether with other
controls. If a Gurney or Sidgwick control had appeared in this
set, it would likewise be included.
To save the reader trouble —that is to say what seems to me
unnecessary trouble—I introduce punctuation and other trivial clari-
fication into the script. It must be understood that it is not by
any means always easy to read. Occasionally it is necessary to
illustrate the superposition of words and other accidental defects,
but this is not so necessary in my report as it was in Mr.
Piddington's.
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter VI. 227
Proceeding now to the record, we may as well quote the initial
particulars of the first sitting of the Edgbaston series, which followed
the few Liverpool sittings, reported on pp. 175-189; but all that can
be published is confessedly very poor, and is preliminary only.
FOURTH ENGLISH SITTING WITH MRS. PIPER.
(First at Edgbaston.)
Held at Mariemont, Edgbaston, on 15 Nov., 1906, 11.0 a.m.,
ending 1 p.m.
Present—0. J. L. and M. L.
(Hand raised. Cross in air.)
+ Hail.
0. -T. L. Hail, Imperator and Rector.
We are glad to return once more to earth this day. -f- 11.
We desire that you should understand and know the truth.
0. J. L. All right. (Then began a "Myers" message.)
Well well Lodge. I am Myers.
O. J. L. Hail Myers, glad to see you.
I have not forgotten you in the least.
0. J. L. Nor I you. (Some private matters were here referred to.)
Do you remember a talk I had with you in which I
promised to do better than others 1 [Cf. a similar remark
made through Mrs. Thompson on page 208.]
0. J. L. Yes, you always thought you would do better.
In case I came first.
O. J. L. Yes.
I wish you to remind me of something.
0. J. L. What we are anxious to get is correspondence messages
between this medium and others.
Good. I U.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Well, will you now give one to some one 1
Very well ;
give me a message.
Suppose you say 'Julius Caesar.' Can you send that?
Yes, I believe I can, but let me repeat the message that I
may be quite certain of it.
Good.
Spell it. (O. J. L. spells it.)
Julius C e s e a r
O. J. L. Yes, very near, not quite right.
Spell it. (0. J. L. spelt Csesar again.)
Coesar.
0. J. L. Yes, it is really JE diphthong, not OE.
I said 0, it is intended for 0.
O. J. L. Very well then, I quite understand.
I will give it her within five minutes,
0. J. L. That would be excellent.
He has gone.
I need not point out how absurd all this need for spelling, and
other signs of apparently rudimentary ignorance, would seem, if we
were to assume that we were in effective touch with the intelligence
of F. W. H. Myers; even though intercourse be, as it is repre-
sented as being, conducted through the intermediate agency of an
amanuensis,—namely the control calling itself Eector, who purports
to be ignorant of everything but simple English. Our business is
to record the facts, and to make deductions from them afterwards.
These trivial signs may be an indication of something which will
help towards a theory of the phenomenon some day. Meanwhile it
must be regarded as curious on any hypothesis that there should
have been hesitation at taking a couple of words so simple as these,
since it cannot be urged in this case that such words are foreign to
the brain of the medium. All that we can say, I think, is that
they are treated as a '
code '
message, which must be received and
conveyed with scrupulous precision, in order to be efficient. As to
228
0. J. L.
0. J. L.
Lviir.] On Trance Commtmications, Char
pter VI. 229
the ce instead of the a?, it would have been characteristic and satis-
factory if the misspelling had reappeared in Mrs. Verrall's script.
For if it had so appeared it would have been a good case of
the simplest kind of cross-correspondence. But as a matter of fact
this particular message did not succeed in getting through at all.
Returning to the record, I omit a long interlude and talk between
some other controls and M. L. on various subjects, chiefly medical,
and take it up again at a later stage of the sitting.
Myers.
0. J. L. Yes, well J
Here I am I have given j'our message to Mrs. Verrall and
she will record it in black and white within a few hours.
[It is noticeable here that the controls discriminate between
the delivery of a message and the actual record of it.
The interval mentioned here is " a few hours." In
our actual experience there is sometimes an interval
of a few days or even weeks between the claim and
the performance.]
0. J. L. I hope she will not forget it.
No, I will see to that. Good-bye.
0. J. L. Good-bye for the present.
(Another short interlude. Then scrawls of a curiously
energetic nature, ending)
I am Hodgson.
0. J. L. Glad to see you at last.
Hello Lodge. I am not dead, as some might suppose : I
am very much alive.
0. J. L. Good, I expect so.
I wish to correct a statement I made some time ago to
Piddington.
0. J. L. Whatever you say I will send to him.
I did not send you a posthumous letter, but I gave one to
William James, which I will re-read to you before we
get through.
230 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
[Hodgsorip had told J. G. P., at a sitting held at Boston,
U.S.A., in the spring of 1906, that he had deposited
a 'posthumous letter' with 0. J. L. None of these
asserted posthumous letters seem to have been found.]
0. J. L. That is right; that will be first rate.
Speak to me.
0. J. L. Are you interested in the cross-correspondence 1 Could you
send something to other communicators?
I am, very, and think it the very best thing.
0. J. L. Could you send one now to one of the mediums 1
I will go to Mrs. Holland.
0. J. L. What will you send 1
St. Paul.
0. J. L, That is a good idea.
St. Paul. I will give it to her at once.
0. J. L. Right, [J. G. P. has referred to this in Vol. 22, p. 31.]
Stick to the truth, and it will stick to you.
Is this your wife 1
0. J. L. Yes, it is.
Glad to see you.
M. L. But I never saw you in the flesh.
[They were not acquainted.]
I wish of all things to do the very best thing to prove my
identity.
[A few private matters are here omitted.]
Oh yes, well get Mrs. S. to verify it.
O. J. L. You mean Mrs. Sidgwick?
Yes, and it will be good. Better use judgement.
Give my love to Piddington and tell him I shall try cross
messages.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VI. 231
0. J. L. And also we shall introduce some of your friends to you,
and see if you recognise them.
Good. I wish Feilding to meet me.
0. J. L. Yes, but he is not in England just now.
Yes, I will see him later on.
0. J. L. They wish your medium to sit in the rooms of the
Society.
Why?
0. J. L. Well, because of the difficulty of lodgings, and because the
sittings will be more under control.
All right; it may be good. If not, I will tell them.
You understand me wonderfully well.
0. J. L. Well I have been practising reading this writing, in readiness.
Capital.
0. J. L. I have to arrange the days to suit us both. I am very
busy. To-morrow and Sabbath [see page 175] will suit
me best. Can we have '
voice '
to-morrow ?
Voice, yes certainly. Good ; all right.
I hope Piddington will get into the spiritual truth of this
thing. If he does, all will be very good. It is very
important not to crowd in too many.
O. J, L. He will introduce people only after the trance has begun.
Very good, I U.D. ; there can be no objection to that.
0. J. L. And only one at a time.
Yes, better probably for most who meet me.
0. J. L. We want you to recognise your friends, and to take cross
messages.
Yes, very good ; we are willing to do anything we can.
0. J. L. Do you remember what you were going to say to Mrs.
Holland ?
St. Paul.
232 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
0. J. L. Yes, quite right.
I will go at once.
I am Rector. Hodgson has gone away.
Do you U.D. ?
0. J. L. Yes, he has gone to take a message.
Mrs. Verrall has got one name already.
0. J. L. Yes, that was from Myers. Hodgson has gone to another.
[But the intention, perhaps, was that she had got either
'
Julius ' or '
Caesar.']
Yes. Mrs. Thompson is a nonentity with Hodgson.
(Then came a change of control and some talk with M. L.,
her father being represented as communicating much
as he did eighteen years ago (Vol. 6) ; and finally,
suddenly interjected, after a scrawl,)
St. Paul. Got it. (Then Rector goes on.)
Will leave now, and may the blessing of God rest on you.
+ Farewell R.
0. J. L. Voice sitting next time.
We U.D.
(Cross in air.)
Waking Stage.
Good-bye. I wonder where they have gone.
(Looking at M. L.) In the body. Oh Lady Lodge. I was
up in another place.
I saw a nice looking gentleman. He had a book in his
hand. Talking with me. I did not want to come here
to see you.
I did not know you at all. I forgot where we were.
The house looks so strange. When I woke up this morning
I did not know where I was.
They take care of me on the other side. It is so nice to
waken up and see you and know you.
(End of trance.)
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VI. 233
The next was a voice sitting—that is a talking, not a writing,
sitting—as promised. It is the only one of the kind we had during
the whole of this English series : and it was less unlike those of
the old Phinuit days than I had expected. In fact there was
distinct recurrence of what in the old days used to be called " fishing,"
when Phinuit was groping in tentative fashion for a name and hoping
for help from the sitter. More fishing is reported on pp. 266-7.
But in truth I have long wanted to exonerate Phinuit from most
of the blame in this matter. The 1
fishing ' procedure had to be
admitted, and indeed emphasised, like all other weak spots ; and
Phinuit had not been trained to eschew normal help and to take
precautions against it, as Mrs. Thompson's '
Nelly ' control had been
trained ; but I always felt that his haziness and tentative approach
to things probably represented a genuine difficulty, and was part of
the phenomenon which needed study ; so I am interested in reading
in Dr. Hodgson's Report, page 382, Vol. 13, the following judicial
pronouncement
" It was out of the automatic dreameries of persons in some
such conditions as those which I have illustrated above, that
Phinuit in my present view so often had to fish his facts,
and I think that assent to correct statements and other clues
from the sitters, besides helping the '
communicator,' were prob-
ably of great service to Phinuit, enabling him to '
cast his line
for those mental automatisms that specially concerned the sitter.
Much light seems to me to have been thrown upon Phinuit's
mistakes and obscurities and general method of trying to get
at facts, in what were on the whole bad sittings, by comparison
of the results obtained from the various communicators writing
directly or using Gr. P. as amanuensis ; and I feel pretty sure
that much of Phinuit's '
fishing ' was due to the confusions of
the more or less comatose communicators, whose minds had let
loose, so to speak, a crowd of earthly memories."
For the voice sitting all preparatory arrangements, with the
cushions etc. (p. 131), were made as usual, and when trance super-
vened, the head sank upon them ; but instead of the right hand
slipping off and ultimately holding a pencil, both hands remained all
the time on the cushion, while the head raised itself and emitted
speech in a rather deep voice. The manner was solemn, without any
of the ejaculations and humorous slang of Phinuit; and although up
to this time I had thought that a voice sitting would be easier
234 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
and better (as it is certainly more interesting and less strain to
a sitter) I perceived that really it possessed but little advantage
over a writing sitting—now that the lively Phinuit control, who
was specially competent in this kind of manifestation, had disappeared;
while for evidential purposes, and permanent record, the writing
method is indisputably better.
As this was the only voice sitting, however, I think I had
better report sufficient to give some idea of the manner of it.
FIFTH SITTING.
(Voice.)
Held at Mariemont, Edgbaston, on 16 November, 1906,
11.0-12.0 a.m.
Present—0. J. L. and M. L., with Mrs. Grove.
I come to take up the voice as I promised thee.
I bring to thee this day a message from Imperator that
that for which thou dost ask can be granted [meaning
about London arrangement].
[It is rather curious that Rector speaking for himself should
employ the second person singular for his pronoun,
whereas when giving messages from a member of a
Quaker family he explains that he translates from
"thou" to "you" because he "understands it better.'
See p. 193.—O.J.L.]
I see all well. I shall conform to those requests if they
involve no injury to physical conditions of Medium,
without injury to the brain. We understand the con-
ditions and must be obeyed.
(Others spoke here, but I only report the short 'Myers'
portions.)
Here is Myers. I must express myself to Lodge with
deepest affection. I have not succeeded in getting it
through to Mis. Verrall, but I will persist. [This may
be regarded as a warning of the failure otherwise referred
to in Mrs. Verrall's script of same date. See J. G. P.'s
paper, Vol. 22, p. 306.]
(Messages from others here intervened.)
LVIII.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VI. 235
" St. Paul " has been given. Ask Piddington if he remembers
anything about a church at Mrs. Holland's. Ask him if
he gave a message to be recorded here about a church
if he said " church " to Mrs. Holland. [See Proc. S.P.R.,
Vol. 22, p. 46.]
(Messages from others again intervened.)
It would be wise to give Prudens a message to take to
another lady. Give it to me to give to Prudens, who
will take it to Mrs. Forbes.
O. J. L. I understand. Well, suppose you suggest " Botanic Gardens."
Botanic Gardens. Very well, Prudens will take this.
That was all that came through of that hind, on this occasion.
The ladies whose names here and elsewhere in the Proceedings are
printed as Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Forbes were really spoken of by
their right names.
It will be of interest to those familiar with the script of Stainton
Moses to see the names of his old Controls cropping up. Not
only Imperator and Rector, but 'Prudens' also, who appears to act
as an accomplished messenger. I conjecture, however, that whatever
relationship may exist between these personages and the correspond-
ing ones of Stainton Moses there is little or no identity. For
instance, a '
Doctor ' is represented as communicating or controlling,
but he appears neither to have nor to claim any connexion with
the non-medical 'Doctor' of Stainton Moses; sometimes at any rate
this Piper one is called '
Dr. Oliver,' and is probably intended to
represent a deceased medical man of Boston. It is rather a puzzle
to me why Mrs. Piper's personalities should have assumed the
same set of names. In general characters they are similar ; but I
see no very close resemblance in detail. And hitherto the Piper
'Imperator' has not given to us the same old earth-name as did
the original '
Imperator ' to Stainton Moses. So that it would
appear as if they did not very seriously pretend to be identical.
That gives a meagre idea of a voice sitting at the present day
and some of what is temporarily omitted may appear later in another
connexion. In no case was there any marked change of control,
such as occurred with Phinuit sometimes. It appeared to consist
236 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
of first-person-reporting on the part of Rector, who spoke after the
fashion of a dignified and gentle old man.
There has been no recent experience so far as I am aware of any
apparent control except Rector during a voice sitting. Whether or
not other controls speak now, they certainly appear to have done so
as late as 1906, and when they did it was evidently impressive: so
much so that, as Professor James records, a lady sitter was cpiite
overcome on one occasion by the apparent identity of the Hodgson
control with R. H. and fainted. No such excitement would be
justified by anything that has come within my experience, but even
now it seems to me that personality can loom out more obviously in
a voice sitting, and when clear can more thoroughly satisfy a sur-
viving friend who is present. The record may be less exact, but
the impression made at the time is more vivid ; at least when the
sitting is a personal one with only an intimate friend present.
It may be noted that in America with the advent of the Stainton
Moses control the atmosphere of a sitting sometimes became rather
markedly "religious." This can be illustrated by the following close
of an American voice sitting in 1906, reported to me by Mr. Dorr;
which also indicates that a change of control occurred, in spite of
the statement on page 160 :
("Hodgson" terminating his communication.)
Well, I will be off. Goodbye for the present.
(Rector resumes.) All right. That is first rate. Took him
a long time to turn round and get out. He dislikes to
go more than anybody I ever saw. The last moment
he kept talking to me and talking to me. He could not
give it up.
Prayek.
Father, in Thy kindness guide Thy children of earth, bestow
Thy blessings on them, teach them with Thy presence
and Thy power to receive suffering, pain, illness and
sorrow, teach them to know that Thy presence is always
with them. May Thy grace and everlasting love be and
abide with them now and evermore.
Farewell. We depart, friends, and may the blessings of
God be bestowed on you. Farewell.
It is only occasionally that the atmosphere of a sitting is serious
and solemn—usually it is of an even tenour, and sometimes it is
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VI. 237
hearty and jovial. The following is a characteristic "Hodgson"
greeting extracted from a sitting with Mr. Dorr and Henry James,
Jr., at Boston in 1906:
Ha! Well, I did not expect to see you so soon. Good
morning, Harry !
I am delighted to see you.
H. J. Jr. Is that you, Mr. Hodgson 1
Yes, it is a great delight to me to see your face once more.
How is everything with you, first rate ?
H. J. Jr. Very well.
(An "influence"—a glove formerly belonging to Hodgson
was now given to Mrs. P. A brief remark, of greeting
apparently, was lost by the stenographer while this was
going on.)
Why, I feel as though I was one among you. Hello, George !
G. B. D. Hello !
You people don't appreciate my spirit of fun ! But I am
Hodgson, and I shall be Hodgson to the end of all eternity,
and you cannot change me no matter what you do.
H. J. Jr. I think we appreciate it, Mr. Hodgson.
Well, I hope you do—if you don't, you have lost something,
because I am what I am, and I shall never be anything
else, and of all the joyous moments of my whole existence,
the most joyful is when I meet you all.
G. B. D. That is first rate.
This sort of thing is of course not in the least evidential, and yet
if I were asked to invent some scheme of salutation more natural and
characteristic of Hodgson's personality I should not be able to improve
upon it.
Eeturning now from this interpolation to the record of our both
less solemn and less jovial English experience, —although another
voice sitting was promised for next time, it did not turn out so,
for at the next trial nothing happened at all, and the attempt had
to be abandoned.
The record of the beginning of the next sitting shall be printed,
in order to exhibit the manner of it.
238 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
[Preliminary Note—A sitting was attempted on Sunday, Nov. 18th, at
Edgbaston, a voice-sitting being expected, but it was a failure :
the trance would not come on. Mrs. Piper thought it was
because she had taken coffee with breakfast.]
SIXTH SITTING.
Held at Mariemont, Edgbaston, on November 19th, 1906.
Present—-Mrs. Grove with Lady Lodge all the time, and 0. J. L. as
recorder part of the time.
(Hand raised. Cross in air.)
-f Hail.
0. J. L. Hail, Imperator and Rector.
No light until now friend. We could not return before.
0. J. L. No, we failed to get at you.
[Nothing of what followed belongs to this part of the report,
but to the Sandford and Marble portion, Chap. VIII.]
At the seventh sitting I introduced a stranger, J. H. M., after
the trance had come on. The Report of this will appear separately,
if at all. I only quote here the fragments of " Myers " or pseudo-
" Myers."
SEVENTH SITTING.
Held at Mariemont, Edgbaston, on 21 November, 1906,
beginning 1 1 a.m.
Present—O. J. L. at first, then J. H. M.
[After preliminaries.]
I am Myers speaking now.
0. J. L. Oh Myers, may I ask you a question 1
Certainly. I shall be glad if you will.
0. J. L. Does the word
Not too fast.
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter VI. 239
0. J. L. Does the word Mantovano convey anything to you 1
Yes, you mean a word I gave to Mrs. V.
0. J. L. Well I do not think so.
My own. Much in little. Yes I used this before in my
own writing.
[Multum in parvo was an attempted Piper-Verrall C.-C. of
date 1901 ; but it had never been published, and Mrs.
Verrall had forgotten all about it. The records have
been looked up, however, and are now printed as
Appendix 2 to this sitting. It looks as if Rector
recollected this because of what seemed like a
reminiscence in sound. 0. J. L.~\
0. J. L. Most likely.
I did.
O. J. L. Well it was used by someone whom you greatly admired.
Yes, I understand this also. also.
Let me think this out and refer to it later.
0. J. L. Right. Mantovano is the word : do you get it ?
Yes. I will certainly explain.
0. J. L. Good, you have the word clearly ?
I believe I have. Explain once more.
(O. J. L. repeats word.)
Yes I have it, R., and he will understand shortly.
0. J. L. There is a friend outside ; shall I ask him in 1
I shall be glad to see him. presently.
Do you remember a friend of mine named Browning 1
0. J. L. Yes, I do.
Will you ask him if he remembers a statement he made to
me about a dream he had concins; concerning a fall.
0. J. L. Concerning a fall
1
?
fall yes.
Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Well ?
I believe it was Browning. I thought it very good.
0. J. L. I will ask him.
[Mr. Oscar Browning's letter in reply is appended. He had
had a sitting or two with Mrs. Piper at Cambridge
during her visit there in 1889.]
Can I do anything for you 1 R.
0. J. L. When you are ready for the friend I will bring him in.
Oh yes, bring him in if you wish.
I do not wish more than one.
0. J. L. No, only one ;
may he come now 1
Yes.
(J. H. M. now comes in and sits down.)
APPENDIX 1 TO NO. 7.
Letter from Mr. Oscar Broioning with reference to
Sitting No. 7. {Sheet 125.)
King's College, Cambridge,
November 22nd, 1906.
My Dear Lodge,
I do not remember anything of the kind
being talked about between Myers and myself, although it is
possible that it may be so, as I have sometimes dreamt of falling
or even flying. About four years ago Hodgson wrote to me that
Myers had been asking after me and wanted to know what I was
doing. Hodgson said that he must mention something known to
both of us and he talked about a battle in the centre of Africa,
of which I have no recollection whatever. It is rather curious if
Myers has mentioned me because, although the connection between
him, Sidgwick, and myself was very close indeed, it is scarcely at
all known to the external world, at least I never see any allusions
to it.
240
0. J. L.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VI. 241
I am having a meeting of the Cambridge Psychical Society in
my rooms this evening, the first after six years.
Believe me,
Ever yours,
(Signed) OSCAR BROWNING.
APPENDIX 2 TO SITTING NO. 7.
MULTUM IN PARVO.
Clearly there is nothing of importance here, but the curious
reminiscence of multum in parvo aroused apparently by the word
Mantovano demands an explanation of the hitherto unpublished
cross-correspondence in which these words occurred.
On the 13th February, 1901, Mrs. Piper, at Boston, in the
presence of Dr. R. Hodgson, wrote thus (Rector communicating)
At last. At last we meet.
B. H. Articles?
(Hand assents.)
E. H. Whose]
S.
(Articles of H. S. presented.)
A wondrous change. A life ideal
I have found at last—go slow
I have found. It is worth the struggle—keep on do not
get weary—the imperfections are in the material not
here. Multum in parvo.
E, H. Multum in?
Sounds like parvo. It is not so easy to reach you as one
might think. Nora.
E. H. Yes, I understand. You mean Mrs. Sidgwick.
I do. But you shall know me as I am. It is better so.
Good morning. H. Sidgwick.
242 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
On the 22nd April, 1901, at 9.45 p.m. in Dr. Verrall's study at
Cambridge, Mrs. Verrall wrote thus :
Verax quod dixi hesterno die.
Tu autem non comprensa deformasti illud. Cur non credis 1
Omnia plana credenti.
(Here I went to the drawing-room, as A.W.V., who
was in the study, moved and disturbed me.)
multum in parvo capax omnum [sic] sermo deest anarith-
metos 4'ctti ravra. . . .
which being translated is :
What I said yesterday is true. But you, not being understood,
spoilt its shape. Why do you not believe
1
? All is plain
to the believer.
Much in little—capable of all [i.e. holding all] words fail
unnumbered. This is it. . . .
On this matter the following comments are made by Mrs. Verrall
(1.) Gomp-ensa is perhaps intended to mean "having understood,"
not "being understood." The Latin past participle passive seems
to be occasionally used in my early script after the fashion of a
Greek middle participle, i.e. with an active sense.
(2.) The script of April 22 goes on to refer to (a) the "gate of
Cancer," (b) a lost paper, (c) the importance of " superposition " as
a help to interpretation [Notes on these points will be found in
Proc. Vols. XX. pp. 39, 195-8, 289; XXI. 377 et foil], and is signed
with three forms of the Greek sigma (s).
(3.) The first automatic writing obtained by Mrs. Verrall was on
March 5, 1901 ;
previous attempts, between Jan. 23 and Feb. 13,
and again on March 3, having produced only disconnected words
and some Greek letters. Thus a clear cross-correspondence between
Mrs. Piper's trance and Mrs. Verrall's writing was obtained within
7 weeks of the inception of Mrs. Verrall's automatic script.
lviii.] On Trance Commitnications, Chapter VI. 243
EIGHTH SITTING.
At the Eighth Sitting on 23 Nov. 1906 (present : O. J. L. alone),
"Isaac Thompson" wrote a good deal, but the following came from
HodgsonP .
I am Hodgson, but I cannot take Rector's place to-day.
However I will make a poor attempt to speak through
him.
0. J. L. Very glad to see you.
Here's ditto. Do I understand that Mrs. Piper is in England 1
0. J. L. Yes, she is, and is staying in my house.
Capital. If I were in the body it would not be so.
However I am glad it is so.
0.\T. L. She is here, well and happy, with Alta and Minerva.
Good, first rate. I am glad.
Will you take a message to Billie Newbold for me, safe ?
0. J. L. Yes, I will send it through William James.
He asked me about the name of a poem ; it was in Hindustan,
and meant love.
0. J. L. Meant what 3 Is that " love 1
Correct. Do you remember a place in England where Gurney
and I went to see a medium, and a long walk we had
soon after midnight?
0. J. L. A long what ?
Walked home.
0. J. L. Oh, a long walk after midnight.
I cannot recall her name, but I told you about it.
0. J. L. Do you mean Gurney 1
Yes, I do, and I have never mentioned it to anyone except
possibly Pid.
244 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Very well. [J. G. P. does not recall this.]
Do you remember it 1
I do not.
Do you wish me to take a message for you 1
Ask slowly ; remember we cannot hear as well as you can.
I am so glad to be on this side.
0. J. L. Well, Hodgson, I do want to ask you something. You know
when I am talking to you I am talking to the hand ; but
I want to know whether it is through the hand you
hear. Suppose I stopped up your medium's ears with
cotton wool, would it make any difference 1 Would the
message still come ?
I think it would, try it.
0. J. L. Very well, I will another time.
First rate, I permit it ; first rate.
But after all I did not try the experiment ; for it is exceedingly
difficult to secure complete deafness by plugging the ears—even with
putty. Moreover the necessary manipulation of the medium's head
during trance seemed rather repellent. It is an experiment worth
trying, however, if we could be sure of a clear result. If I could
have been sure of a crucial test I would have had it done ; but
hyperaesthesia would have to be allowed for in the positive direc-
tion—possibly also inhibitory suggestion in the negative, —and on
the whole I felt that no definite deduction could be made, whatever
the result. Nevertheless the experiment ought to be made by some
competent person.
After this came some private matter which is omitted, and there
was more talk about London arrangements and choice of room
suitable for the sittings there ; but nothing of permanent interest.
The ninth and eleventh sittings were entirely occupied with the
second and third visits of Prof. J. H. Muirhead.
At the tenth a lady was introduced.
At the twelfth Mrs. Grove sat with Lady Lodge but without me.
Nothing from the S.P.R. group came at any of these.
0. J. L.
0. J. L.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VI. 245
THIRTEENTH SITTING.
Edgbaston, December 3, 1906, at 11.10 a.m.
Present—O. J. L. only.
(After preliminaries and a considerable amount of communication
about J. H. M.)
Any further tests that I can give 1
0. J. L. I should like to speak to either Myers or Hodgson.
Yes, all right, I will call them. +
Prudens will be here in a moment.
(Scrawl.
Hello, Hello, Lodge. How are you on that side 1
0. J. L. Hullo, Hodgson, I want to ask you something.
Fire away at me, I am in the witness box.
0. J. L. Well, you told me to give a message to " Billie Nevvbold."
Right.
0. J. L. About the title of a Hindustan poem, but you did not tell
me anything in Hindustani. That is, I expect, what he
wanted.
No, I beg your pardon ; he asked me to translate into
English the name of a poem I wrote, now in his possession.
0. J. L. And you said it meant 'love.'
Yes, I do say so, and that is correct.
0. J. L. Very well ; and is that all I am to say to him ?
Yes, about that. But you will please tell him that he is
not to feel disturbed about that Medium's message : it
is all rot. He will understand about it; i.e., his going
to the bottom with his wife ;
i.e., going to the bottom
of the sea. U.D.
246 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
0. J. L. Yes, I supposed so.
Lodge, do you remember a medium I went to see long
ago with Gurney, and we walked home late at night,
and the laugh we had about it 1 I told you about it,
and you ought to remember it.
0. J.fL. I am afraid I do not.
[This probably refers to an incident he tried to recall to
my recollection at a previous sitting. I begin to have
some recollection of walking through the semi-under-
ground passage at Berkeley Square with Gurney and
Hodgson, but whether it is a case of true or false
memory I am not sure. The medium may have been
Eglinton, to whom I went many times fruitlessly with
Gurney ; but I had not recollected any connexion of
Hodgson with that particular series of attempts. On
referring to the Journal S.P.R., Vol. 2, p. 290, where
these experiments are recorded, however, I see that it
may quite well have been possible. See also page 491
of the same volume.]
I left a posthumous letter with W. J.
In it I said ....
[This is kept back for the present, for evidential reasons.]
I will refer to it again.
0. J. L. Yes, we will not be in a hurry.
Did you ask Piddington about the church ?
He said something to me through Mrs. Holland about church.
O. J. L. Very well, that is a C.-C. message.
Yes, have you heard about the others yet
1
?
0. J. L. No, but they will all be recorded, and collated in due time.
0. J.L. Very well, it is getting time to stop now.
Myers has had very little opportunity or encouragement to
prove his identity.
LVIII.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VI. 247
O. J. L. Yes, that is fairly true so far.
And now if the opportunity can be given him, no one on
our side is more desirous of proving his identity than
Myers. U.D.
O. J. L. Yes, I quite understand.
He understands, and wishes very much to communicate with
a few of his real friends. R. It should be given him in
any case, as he is intelligent, clear, and understands the
necessity of so doing.
O. J. L. I think that this will be the last time in these surroundings
for the present.
Yes, we doubt if we can return—again here, but hope for an
opportunity somewhere while the light burns.
Now, friend, we are about to depart.
We cannot remain here ; our utterances are fragmentary but
they are earnest and sincere. This must be the case
however until the veil is lifted, with all made clear to
you. Your mind cannot help us. If you think of a thing
seriously it cannot convey anything to us. We go, and
may God be with and watch over you always.
+ Farewell E.
j[The waking stage is reported in another connexion. See p. 276.]
This was the last of that particular set of Edgbaston sittings,
and soon afterwards Mrs. Piper went to London.
After her return in May, three more sittings were held, from
the records of which I again extract the writings of the S.P.R.
group ; and since the beginning after a break is usually rather
interesting, I report the introductory portion also in this case.
248 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
CHAPTER VII.
Messages Received from the Myers and Hodgson Controls
through Mrs. Piper. Spring Series.
First Sittingr of the Second Series at Mariemont, Eclgbaston,
called No. 14,
Sunday, 19 May, 1907, beginning 10.50 a.m.
Present—O. J. L., M. L., and Mrs. Grove.
("Hand raised. Cross in air.]
+ Hail.
Once more we return to earth to greet you.
Peace and joy we bring. + R.
0. J. L. Welcome, Imperator and Rector.
[Excitement in hand.]
We are very glad to see you.
I just discovered who you were. R.
We bring some friends who are anxious
to speak with the lady. Is she present.
0. J. L. Yes, she is.
Mes. G. Yes, I am here.
Mr. Myers speaks first
My good friend I am delighted to see you
once more and assure you that I live.
Oh what joy and delight when we meet again.
I know all is well with you, therefore
I will tell you I have sent and
succeeded [?] in making Mrs. V. understand.
O. J. L. What is that word?
And — succeeded
O. J. L. Good.
Expectancy, tranquility, and cloud.
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter VII. 249
0. J. L. That word is cloud 1
Yes.
0. J. L. Lonely as a cloud.
Yes, quite.
Give her my love and tell her this
being my first opportunity to
acknowledge the fact that the word
(O. J. L. reads 'she would'.)
the word did appear.
0. J. L. Right,
I am working on Church and hope to
get it through soon
(0. J. L. read 'writing'.)
working on the word.
She gave it me to reproduce there.
Would you like to say anything now ]
If not, others would like to speak.
0. J. L. Thank you, Myers, I only want to say that I think what
you did about Browning Hope and a Star, was very fine.
I am glad to have succeeded in making
it clear to Rector, but I did have a
time of it in making him understand my meaning.
I will step aside for a few minutes
and will see you before the light goes out.
0. J. L. Thank you. Very good.
Remember life is everlasting. Myers.
[Signature not unlike his. But for the most part the style
of all this communication is more appropriate to
"Rector" than to "Myers."]
(Then much communication for Mrs. G. ; and at the end
the following from the Hodgson control :)
Hong Kong Nut will come out later.
250 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
O. J. L. What is that after Hong Kong?
Nut. Hong Kong nut will come out later through Mrs. V
and I think will be fine. Nut.
That is one of my test words.
I am glad to see you, and sorry to say goodbye.
O. J. L. Yes, it is about time to stop.
Adio. K. H.
[Writing changes, becomes more like Myers's and the style
also.]
Good-bye for the present, old fellow.
I am happier than you can ever know.
My love always.
(Then Rector concludes.)
We cease now, and may the blessings of
God rest on you both.
+ Farewell R.
[Scrawl.]
[Time— 12-50.]
On this I have only to say that Hong Kong Nut was the
subject of a C.-C. experiment, selected by HodgsonP,
which, however,
like many others, to the best of my knowledge, did not succeed.
They are possibly of the same class as those dream inspirations
which when analysed turn out to be rubbish, though they impress
the sleeper at the time with a sense of great importance.
SITTING No. 15.
At the fifteenth sitting on 27 May, 1907, the following was
received :
I have been trying to get another message through Mrs.
Verrall. Myers.
0. J. L. That will be very good.
Wait for it.
Lodge, do you realise the joy I experience meeting you
to-day 1
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VII. 251
0. J. L. Yes, Myers, I think so. Delighted to see you.
I wish you could speak to me.
Tell Piddington I understand his desires and will do all
in my power to continue to reach him.
0. J. L. Good.
I did give Dwarf. (Not read at first.) Dwarf.
O. J. L. Oh, "dwarf."
Yes, P. will understand.
O. J. L. Piddington will understand. [See Proe., Vol. 22, p. 87.]
Do you understand Plotinus ? (Not read at first.)
Do you understand Plotinus 1
O.J.L. "Plotinus'"? [Evidently I had not been told about Mrs.
Verrall's Greek message then.]
Yes.
0. J. L. I know something about Plotinus, yes.
This is my answer to the Greek message.
O.J.L. Do you wish to translate to me Piddington's Latin message?
Yes, you have long since been trying to assimilate ideas.
0. J. L. Cannot read all that.
[I thought at the time that this was a sentence addressed
to me, ; whereas I now realise that it was the begin-
ning of a translation. 0. J. Z.]
You have long since been trying to assimilate ideas, but 1
wish you to give through Mrs. Verrall a proof sucli
proof of the survival of bodily death, in such a way
as to make such a prove conclusively conclusively the
survival of Bodily death.
O. J. L. Would you tell me the Latin again ?
Yes; assimilate ideas, one with another, one with another.
But what I ask is for you to give that proof of the survival
of bodily death, and in such a way as to make it con-
clusive. He [not read] He He wished me to give a
message through Mrs. Verrall and this light concerning
the same subject.
252 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
0. J. L. Yes. I know, cross-correspondence.
Yes, and this was his message to me in Latin.
0. J. L. Very well, thank you.
You will find it is correct in the main.
He suggested Browning to me.
0. J. L. Yes.
In the passage Prefissias.
0. J. L. Perficias 1
Yes. Yes. Appreciate (so read.)
Apparirat Appariat.
0. J. L. Oh, I see, Appariat ;
very well.
illud etc. (0. J. L. reads.)
Yes ; from the last sentence I got instead of a fourth sound
came a star. Sound.
0. J. L. Yes, I know.
[The date on which I read the poem "AbtVogler" to the
Piper family, as reported in Vol, 22, p. 416, was
May 29, i.e. two days after this.]
It was the last sentence in Latin which suggested it to my
mind.
Jam dudam commitis. ('Jam 'was read at first 'I am.')
Jam didam commitis (so read).
0. J. L. Is it not dedam 1
Dudam. Jam dudam. (Plainly written. 0. J. L. reads
dudam.) Yes. This is only a few of the words to
his message (corrected) of his message. I have it now
completed. Anything more 1
0. J. L. Is Myers still there 1
I am answering your question friend.
O. J. L. I was not sure it was you ; I thought it was Eector.
The evidential part of this sitting is the reference to some of the
cross-correspondences, which, although largely a repetition of what
had been said in London, were now expressed perhaps, in places,
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VII. 253
more clearly and distinctly than at first. At any rate they are reported
for whatever they turn out to be worth. I had no previous know-
ledge of any of the words of the Latin message (see Vol. 22,
page 313).
SITTING No. 16.
Now I come to the last sitting of the series, No. 16, on 2 June,
1 907, from which I will quote the appropriate portion.
Myers will open first this day.
He says when messages come from him he understands that
the language is not always as he would speak it, but it
gathers so much on the way when it is being transmitted
it sometimes loses its natural tone. Understand ?
0. J. L. Yes, I gathered that.
However if he can succeed at all in making his thought
appear clear he will be extremely [?] grateful and pleased.
I speak these words for him as he helped me to do so. R.
(Writing gets smaller.)
Good morning, my friend, I am delighted to see you again.
You must not be disappointed if I do not succeed in
replying to [a sentence I had given him] at once, but I am
working over it, as I understand it and will answer as
soon as I can get it clearly.
0. J. L. Yes, very well.
I have succeeded in getting another word through Mrs. V.
It is Montin. [Doubtless meant for mountain.]
O. J. L. Montin ?
Yes ; one of my test words. I also note Lake Lake.
O.J.L. Lake?
Yes. Laburnum and Rose leaf.
All this has much meaning, as you will understand later.
0. J. L. Very well, I shall keep a careful record of all this.
I travelled, not footsore or heavy laden.
(0. J. L. reads it.)
254 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Yes, look for this also,
to find light. (Read by O. J. L.)
Yes ; these I propose to work on until they appear through
Mrs. V.
0. J. L. Yes, you will send them through Mrs. Verrall.
Yes. Have you understood her recent notes 1
0. J. L. Those I have heard of seem very good.
I wish you would follow me now for a moment.
0. J. L. Quite right.
Remember when Piddington gave me his message, the special
point in it was for me to give definite proof through
both lights. [At first read '
other ' instead of '
both '.]
The first thought I had was to repeat a few words or lines
of Browning's poem, but in order to make it still more
de finite
(Written as two words, and then some talk between the
controls : appearing thus :)
All right, I will. I am sorry. Rector.
Yes definite I registered a star and the lines which I quoted
to you before.
0. J. L. Is that word ' before '
?
He says I speak too fast for him. R. I will wait.
which I quoted to you before
were the most appropriate I could find.
I believe you will understand this to be conclusive, that I
fully understand and have fairly well translated his
message.
Any inquiry 1
0. J. L. No, I do not think of anything now.
I am working over several other things.
Have you understood about wandering, etc.
(0. J. L. thought of 'wandering lonely' as a cloud, but
thought it safer to say "no," which he did.)
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VII. 255
Lonely etc.
I think part of it has appeared. Will you reply
1
?
0. J. L. I understand about autos ouranos etc. It is considered about
the best thing you have done.
Really ? I thought of Tennyson directly she gave me her
words.
Socratese [sic] and the original aspect.
Do you realise how difficult it is to receive your words and
translate them clearly to Rector, who understands nothing
of what I am trying to tell him ?
Wait, friend, and do not lose your patience.
(Then messages came from other controls, and soon after-
wards the series terminated.)
[For the meaning of all this, reference must be made to Mr.
Piddington's analysis near the end of Proc, Vol. 22].
End of present report on the Myers and other S.P.R. controls.
CHAPTER VIII.
OTHER MESSAGES RECEIVED THROUGH MRS. PIPER.
The Joseph Marble Series.
A CURIOUS, and withal distinctly evidential, series of communications
was obtained, partly in my presence and partly without me, by a lady
known to me and to a few other members of the S.P.R., whom
I will call Mrs. Rupert Grove. There are several reasons for con-
cealing identity : one is that people still alive would resent publication,
and another is that it would tend to spoil some possible future
evidence which at present remains in the form of prediction as yet
unfulfilled.
Mrs. Grove herself is an intelligent lady of middle age, open minded
as to the genuineness of psychical phenomena of all kinds, but in her
own judgment tending towards scepticism, which it requires frequently
renewed experience to counteract. Such renewal of experience, from
256 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
time to time, she has had through her husband, who has been more or
less familiar with such things for years. But his attitude to them is
unimportant, since he does not enter into this series except by incidental
mention. He knew Mr. Marble slightly, since he also had lived for
some years in the same neighbourhood ; but he had at that time no
knowledge of the great and affectionate intimacy between Mr. Marble
and his future wife. He is still living, and I think I am right in
assuming that he knows about it now and has learnt not to resent
it. Nevertheless the possibility that he might dislike it is another
reason for anonymity. And, after all, names in this case are of no
importance, since none of the people primarily concerned is of any
public notoriety or importance.
I shall begin with a statement written down by Mrs. Grove on the
14th June, 1907, and kept by me till the present time.
Statement by Mrs. Grove, made 14th June, 1907,
with reference to earlier incidents.
Mr. Joseph Marble and his sister, Mrs. Kate Sandford, were neigh-
bours of each other and also neighbours and old friends of my mother,
near Ashton ; and he had a small '
works ' not far from Stalybridge.
Both were well-read, clear-headed, somewhat sceptical people. They
knew me better than any one else, and were interested in everything
that concerned me. In fact there was a strong and very deep affection
between us, unknown to any one else. Some years after my marriage,
when I had gained a little experience of psychical matters through
a few visits to a medium in 1896, I often spoke to them separately,
but especially to him, on the subject, trying to make him realize
and see things as I was beginning with a good deal of hesitation
to see them ; but without success. He listened as he would have
listened to anything I told him, but more with amusement than
acceptance.
Mrs. Sandford was equally incredulous, and said, rather distinctly,
that she did not like such things. So I never really expected to get
communications purporting to come from them.
Nevertheless, in two sittings with Mrs. Thompson, during the
Spring of 1900, about three years after Mr. Marble's death, I did
try for something of the kind, by taking with me an object that had
belonged to him. And communications seemed to come from Mr.
Marble almost the whole time : giving many facts that could not
be known by anyone else. His sister (a widow) was then alive.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 257
The communications included a short piece of writing, in which
among other things he wrote—very naturally—"I never thought I
should attempt in so rubbishy a manner to demonstrate the truth of
your own strange belief, but I live, I live, etc." (See p. 263.)
The communications just received through Mrs. Piper from him and
his sister are in many ways quite appropriate to their individuality.
Mrs. Sandford went by the name of Aunt Kitty among her nieces
(his daughters, —the ablest of whom is named Peggy), with whom I
was on affectionate terms.
The family still retains the old incredulity and strong repugnance to
anything spiritistic, but the two deceased members of it seem most
anxious to make up for their scepticism by giving a carefully considered
kind of proof, which if it comes off (but this seems at present past
belief) will be to me most wonderful and satisfying.
Alick F. Grove.
Here follow the original notes of two voice-sittings with Mrs.
Thompson at Hampstead ;
together with a contemporary letter from
Mr. Myers, to whom they were sent to see if he wanted to include
them with his own extensive series.
The only part kept back is a portion of the writing done by
the entranced Mrs. Thompson during one of the sittings.
Mrs. Grove's first Sitting with Mrs. Thompson, in 1900.
(Notes by the sitter are in square brackets.)
(Control "Nelly" speaking.) There's Mr. Myers. Yes I'm
very happy to get things for other people.
(I gave the medium a Scotch plaid tie to hold which had
belonged to my deceased friend Mr. Marble.)
What makes me say Stalybridge 1
Mrs. G. Good.
I dont know where it is, a horribly smoky place, as bad as
Dudley Port. A stout good tempered influence with this,
easy comfortable jolly. A sort of Scotch name associated
with it. I dont mean because of the pattern.
(Touching locket I was wearing that my father gave my
mother.)
R
258 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
You know the old gentleman belonging to that locket.
He knows all about the Baltic Sea. [He was a sailor.]
(I gave a letter written by the same deceased friend.)
It is written by the man that wore the tie. [True.]
seems a separation between tie and letter
not the same influence. [1]
This gentleman has whiskers at the side, no beard. [True.]
Have you really got 2 or 3 fathers 1
because it seems as if you had, besides Mr. Grove.
He keeps saying 15, not the one with the whiskers.
The one with the whiskers wears a felt hat—he doesnt like a
top hat—Mrs. Cartwright 1
is helping him, he cant talk very
well—she is helping to smooth it out. He was one that
didnt like other people knowing his affairs. [He was very
reserved.]
He wants you to send your love to him—to help him.
He says he hasn't been dead as long as the old Gentleman that
gave the locket. [Certainly, since this latter has been dead
many years.]
Who is the Lady crying because he is dead. Is it your sister ?
She says it is her Joe. [This is what his wife always called
him.]
There is a great mistake about this man dying, he is like in
the prime of life. [He was over 60, but a strong looking
man.]
It is not an outside death, its inside. His stomach is all
doubled up. [It was in fact appendicitis.]
He ought to have gone on breathing and breathing a lot more
and got better. [He was thought to have pneumonia,
so I presume that breathing was difficult.] Its as if
he wants to cough; cant breathe very well. —Joseph
Limestone.
[The real name is Marble : but unfortunately the letter came
partly open while in Mrs. Thompson's hands, and his
name may have been seen. Also it said in the letter that
he found it difficult to believe. She did not appear to
be reading it at all. A.F.G.]
'For "Mrs. Cartwright," see Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. 18, p. 126.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 259
You know, Alice, it seems as if he says he always doubted
about people coming to talk when they were dead, but he
knows now it is true.
He seems as though he was a mixed up sort of relation, a kind
of brother in law. [No relation.]
He says he promised he would tell you if it was true. He
wants to come because you and Eupert didn't think it
was the truth, and he wants carefully to demonstrate it
to you.
(Another short digression about my brooch.)
Mr. Limestone says the boys used to come over where he
lived, to stay. [Yes, some cousins. He did not care for
them.]
Mrs. Grove darling do you know that gentleman is getting
quite happy. He says he had Pneumonia.
[He was treated for Pneumonia, but it turned out to be
Appendicitis.]
He says your little girls used to hang on each side of him.
[This is quite possible.]
Have you got the ring he gave you 1
I can't understand the relationship, because there is such a
bond of love between you as doesn't exist between
ordinary people.
Beloved Alice, that's what he says —he wants you to comfort
someone that's left crying for him—he wants you to
tell them that it was a sort of shock—he didn't seem
to be ill long. [His illness did not last 3 days.]
In spite of all he loves he doesnt want to come back.
He's waiting for Alice.
He says there is no separation of love in Heaven.
Does he mind 1
but you did so straightforwardly tell him [i.e. Mr. Grove].
My poor little woman, how sorry I was for you
He says he told you not to wear a bonnet, he always liked
to see you in a hat. [True.]
260 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
You will let him kiss you now, you used to screw yourself
up from him. He said he ought to have been more patient.
He can see the truth of your heart now—it hurt his
feelings—He often wanted to make you presents, and
you wouldn't have them. He said sometimes you were
your own self and other times you weren't.
But he says neither of you wronged any one else.
What a masculine voice he has, a voice he would be known
by anywhere—not ordinary. [True.]
He says, when he sees you, he would rather some one else
were here and he was in some one else's place.
He says you were nicest to him in the train—it was the
only time you were yourself—He says he gave you a
lot of trouble, he caused you a lot, but it's all smooth
and straight now. He didn't know at the time.
He says what troubles him most is for your sake—you had
so much to bear—It seems selfishness that he should
have caused you so much trouble.
He seemed to be doing something he ought not.
It seems as though he doesn't like to tell me. Perhaps he
can write it. [All this is entirely intelligible and correct.
The hand of the medium now writes matter fairly appro-
priate, with his real surname, Marble, written in full and
correctly.]
Who is that with his teeth so even and square, bright and
regular, and his ear such a nice ear? [Had nice teeth,
and had a good ear lying flat to the head.]
He says you have his photograph but have put it away.
[True.]
Why did I take it so hard 1 The knowledge of all we were
to each other ought to keep me till we meet and are
united.
Mks. G. Then what about my Rupert?
Oh ! there are no jealousies and no relationships, but souls
united. He is sure Rupert won't be cross at souls united.
He seems to say " Alice love me just this once," and seems
to be trembling and trembling.
It seems to commence by your going in the train.
(Mrs. G. asks for the name of a special place.) [Not obtained.]
Lvnr.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 261
He says tell him anything but that.
Oh God—but he does not believe in God does he 1 [In
a Piper Sitting, six years later, he is represented as
saying, through Rector, "I do believe in God now."
What is that in his throat"?—-You see how large it is there,
[he had a large 'Adam's apple'] and a turn down collar.
They don't know anything of this at his house and he
doesn't want them to.
What made him die so quickly 1 looks as if something was
doubled up inside his stomach. Do you know what a
passionate love on one side and a sisterly love on the
other—that's what it is. He hasn't any patience with
Platonic affection.
Second Sitting of Mrs. Grove with Mrs. Thompson
on the following day.
[After preliminaries.]
Where is his brother 1
(Mrs. G. asks '
Nelly ' to find out if he remembers the School
of Art.)
Have you been painting a picture, Mrs. Grove 1 because he
sees you with a pinafore on painting—he used to watch
you painting.
[True, and also true that I had been recently painting
a picture.]
Mrs. G. Can you tell me what the picture was ? [Really a portrait
of him from a photograph.]
(Long silence) —You seem to be copying off another.
There are a lot of suicides connected with this gentleman.
[His brother committed suicide b}^ shooting himself, and
he knew that I knew this fact.]
Well, there is a poison that doubles up the inside, but he
is afraid of distressing you ; but it is written up.
[If this implies that Mr. Marble also committed suicide,
it is untrue.]
262 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
All the Elliotts know him. He only loved one Elliott;
[Elliott was my former name] but you mustn't be jealous
he once loved an Alice Elliott—You're not cross are
you 1 —He didn't marry her.
(In answer to questions if he remembered where he went
with her.)
He went away to some pictures by rivers with Alice Elliott.
You won't be cross will you, but you know his heart seems
to go out to her more than to anyone else. [Nelly never
seemed to know my former name, or to suspect that
this really referred to me.]
What's an Agnostic I Tell her I am an Agnostic. [True.]
He says what the devil shall I do when I can't think
He says in one more year he'll come and tell you. He
says he is not in the same house '
Nelly ' is in. When
he is there, which he hopes to be soon, he can talk to
her without getting in a muddle.
[This is probably intended to signify that he is not yet
at the same stage of progression as the reporting
control.]
(The medium now took a pencil and began to write. The
writing consisted of unintelligible questions at first.
Then)
" Why remind me of this however, I am happy and have
been for you you all and am now happy.
I cannot think you are my Alice or you would not say
you forget it, how am I to believe you are my Alice I
cannot see you any more than you can see me. There
are the sketches I gave you. They are in my house or
yours."
[I do not remember having received any sketches from
Mr. Marble.]
(Writing continued.) "My clear Alice tis not that I am
unwilling, but I am now though not then convinced that
we are both best to leave our loves. This life has
brought me the joy and happiness I so often sought but
sought in vain. I was so deuced selfish in my love
but now I see it is better left alone—and try my dear
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 263
Alice to forget me as you used to pretend so well to do.
Why did you treat me so coldly. You little thought
how grieved it made me—I have suffered for the wrong
I would have done to others but now it is best for me
not to communicate in this or any other way. I love
you still but only by giving you this proof in our case
is best left alone—for one year. Remember in one year
I will give you all the proof, nay more, but dearest
dont ask me now. I never thought I should attempt
in so rubbishy a manner to demonstrate the truth of
your own strange belief.
but I live I live, and that is sufficient for now, and more,
much more, than anything I ever thought of.
I will not try to say more, surely one year will not grieve
you to wait, etc."
[It becomes illegible and I cannot read it quite to the
end. The whole of the above is extremely appropriate.]
(Then follow several irrelevant things written, and then
'Nelly' said:)
Who is that dear old lady called Annie?—wears a Honiton
lace cap, —used to wear a little black silk apron with
lace round it. She sees you have been communicating
with some one and thinks you had better not give her
love to Rupert. She is very high, nearly as high as the
bright Lady.
[I do not know for whom this is intended—it might be a
particular Aunt, but her name was not Annie or Anne.]
She asks you not to communicate
She thinks we shall have to educate him a bit first as he is
rather anti-everything. [This phrase is distinctly charac-
teristic of Mr. Marble.]
NOTES BY 0. J. L.
All this J. M. business is extraordinarily good. It is really more
lifedike than the subsequent quieter Piper impersonation, some six
or seven years later. At that time, however, the attempt to
give evidence, here foreshadowed, is really made : and the Control
shows some knowledge of what was said here, e.g. by writing that
264 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
"lie does believe in God now." (Cf. p. 261 just above.) If it be true
that any J. M. material comes, or has come, through Mrs. Verrall,
or other strangers, it will be excellent. At present telepathy from
the sitter is the least strained hypothesis that will account for
it. No more normal explanation than that will serve.
The substitution on one occasion of '
Mr. Limestone ' for Mr.
Marble is characteristic of the '
Nelly ' control, and recalls the
substitution of 'Happyfield' for Merrifield, as reported in Vol. 17,
p. 208. These small things are of interest as tending to throw light
on the mechanism of the process ; at least in this instance. But
just as people differ in power of visualising and other methods of
reminiscence, so each case of automatism should be studied as likely
to possess individual features.
These materials were sent to Mr. Myers in the year 1900, who
replied as follows :
Cambridge,
May 30/0 [1900].
My dear Lodge,
With many thanks for enclosed, I think it need not
be typewritten in my series. A sentence from Mrs. Grove's letter
as to general impression—will suffice, and I think we will now
wait and see what the '
spirits ' suggest of themselves after a year.
Mrs. T. had another somewhat disturbing impression of this 'spirit,'
which, as she thought, roused her from the trance at my last sitting
with van Eeden.—He said something about returning in a year,
in a tone which rather roused her opposition. We had better just
wait and let matters develop themselves—no need to say anything
about the matter as yet.
F. W. H. M.
After this the same Control sent occasional messages through other
mediums, to whom Mrs. Grove occasionally went anonymously, hoping
to get some more evidence. These communications are hardly worth
reporting; but as no clue of any kind was given, they seemed beyond
chance, since they clearly had reference to the same personality
and incidents. But of course they were —like most of this series
well within the scope of telepathy. The few incidents outside the
scope of telepathy remain for the future to verify. These were
obtained through Mrs. Piper—from whose script on this subject
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 265
I now extract portions ; but for evidential reasons it is necessary to
withhold the not yet verified portions for subsequent publication.
They are all carefully kept. In the interim, between 1900 and 1906,
Mrs. Kate Sandford, sister of Mr. Joseph Marble, had died in her
own house.
The main difference between the communications received through
Mrs. Thompson, as reported above, and the communications which
follow, obtained through Mrs. Piper, lies in the fact that one was
conversational and therefore easy, whereas the other was hampered
by the difficulty of deciphering a more or less illegible script. Even
when a skilled reader is present it is not easy, but to a sitter who
is comparatively a novice at the work the difficulty is extreme.
For part of Mrs. Grove's time I was present and assisted with the
reading, but the presence of an outside person is naturally perturbing,
and hence the opportunity for referring to intimate matters was not
so complete as during the previous voice sittings with Mrs. Thompson
alone. Another difference seems to be due to the fact that at the
later date communication begins not directly with Mr. Marble
himself but with his now deceased sister ; and the presence of this
additional communicator exerted another restraining influence—not
only on the other side, so to speak, but even 1 thought on Mrs.
Grove.
Anxiety to communicate in an evidential manner if possible, and
genuine affection, were manifested now as strongly as before ; but
the tone was somewhat more sedate, and more what may be called
'religious.' Probably most of this is due to the intervention of
Rector, but it is represented as indicating some progress in the
communicator himself.
In Mis. Grove's opinion, the communicator seemed the same person
in the main, and not more different in detail than the different cir-
cumstances might reasonably be held to justify.
Let it be remembered then that the remaining communications
are obtained, not as heretofore through Mrs. Thompson by the voice,
but through Mrs. Piper by writing.
Sitting of Mrs. Grove vritli Mrs. Piper in November, 1906.
The first appearance of anything in connexion with Mr. Joseph
Marble or his sister Mrs. Kate Sandford—frequently known as Aunt
Kitty though she was no relation— occurred in the midst of other
260 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
matter, when Mrs. Grove was present and had handed in a brown
tie belonging to the late Mr. Marble, thus :
Who is Kate ? Sends her dearest love. All is well, and
hopes it is with j'ou. Wants you to remember her as
she was glad she came over.
(Feeling shawl worn by sitter.)
She made it. She gave it to you.
Mrs. G. Yes, she did. [It was the last thing that Mrs. Sandford
had made ; she had given it to Mrs. G., who happened
now accidentally to have it on.]
Wants you to keep it always.
There is the same influence about these two, (tie and
shawl) they are connected, and yet they are not. I will
get it clear. She does love you so. She thinks as much
of you as of anyone now in the body. Do you remember
her father?
Mrs. G. No.
He came a long time ago.
Lawrence, no Lorenz ;
no, I cannot get it. A lady whom
she knew who nursed her in the body. [A lady com-
panion used to live with Mrs. Sandford in her last
years ; but the name was not at all like Lawrence.]
She was with her when she passed out. This is a
companion. These two influences, ihis is the sister, and
this is the brother.
Mrs. G. Right.
She (feeling shawl) was not far from your mother's sur-
roundings.
Mrs. G. True. [They all lived near together.]
Kate's is an excellent influence. This object (brown tie) is
not quite what I like.
The influence of the body is not quite so clear. A dimmer
light.
Thy presence attracts both.
This (brown tie) influence is a little puzzling.
I think I might get this another time clearer.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 267
I will speak to him myself.
Give me these when I return.
I often get best results by speaking to someone on our
side and then speaking directly I return.
Mrs. G. All right ; Kate will help you.
The next sitting was held specially for Mrs. Grove, and the subject
was developed during most of the time. It would, however, be tedious
to quote it all, for some of the incidents mentioned could not be
recalled by the sitter, and others were given only vaguely. I take
the beginning, and then a bit out of the middle : the beginning of
Mr. Marble's appearance, as a communicator through Mrs. Piper,
being perforce included. It is very hazy and confused at first, but,
as soon as it is properly established, this impersonation will be
recognised as fairly consistent with the hitherto unpublished repre-
sentation through Mrs. Thompson recorded above, and obtained six
and a half years previously. The opening words of the following
record purport to be from Mrs. Sandford :
I am well and happy in this life, so is my brother Martin
who greets you with great love. [This name Martin
seems to be merely a muddle of Rector's.]
Kate and Martin [ 1 ] are both here to greet you. He asks
me to remind you of a ring which you had a long
time ago.
Mrs. G. I am glad to meet Kate again, but I do not know Martin.
Speak to me.
Mrs. G. I have the ring on my finger now.
I wish I could speak to you as I feel. I think of the days
that are gone and the joy I had in life.
Have you seen mother since I came over or do you under-
stand anything about her 'I Jane.
Mrs. G. No I don't understand.
She came to this life many years ago.
Mrs. G. I don't know anything about her.
All right. Speak. Don't let me get confused—that sign.
No one could recall better than myself that ring (not
read) but myself would remember that ring.
268 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Mrs. G. No. [A ring given by Mr. Marble to Mrs. G., long ago, was
on her finger, as said above.]
I am really near you now, and so glad to have found my
way here. [This purports to be Mr. Marble communi-
cating.]
Mks. G. Can you quote to me a line of Eossetti's that you said to
me—a sort of farewell poem 1
I am not sure about that, but I will try my very best to
refresh my memory with it, and repeat it if possible
here. Do you remember Halstead Hall ?
Mrs. G. No : no I do not.
Hall Hall Hall.
0. J. L. (Thinking to help matters on) Hell Hall ?
No No No friend, Halstead Hall where I used to ... .
[illegible] in part of the writing.
Did those lines go like this,
"All day for day drift far apart'"?
Mrs. G. No, those are not the lines.
Not quite right friend.
Our lives apart.
Mrs. G. No.
I do not recall the exact poem, but don't trouble about it
it will all be clear in time, and I will give it you. I
certainly will. [It was never given. Mrs. G. herself
quoted it later.] Do you remember anything about Hall ?
Mrs. G. A hall we used to pass in walking, where the Jeffersons
lived?
(Excitement in hand) Not far from that hall.
Mrs. G. Do you mean Casford Hall?
Yes I do. I told Eector again and again.
Halsford Hall. M.
There is something on his mind. E.
which he is anxious to recall with the lady present.
Dance.
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 269
Mrs. G. Yes yes.
Together at Ball, at Hall. Not so?
Mrs. G. No, not there [but if he meant another hall it would be
right].
No, but we stopped at Hall on our way and sat.
Mrs. G. I don't recollect.
Think a moment friend, he is surely right.
Think a moment.
Mrs. G. I cannot remember it.
(And so on with other ineffective reminiscences for about five
or ten minutes more, then)
Do you remember Singing 1 [or possibly a portmanteau attempt
at Sunday morning.]
Mrs. G. Singing 1 Yes, very badly.
I remember well. Sunday ming [clearly meant for either
evening or morning].
Repeat. Not singing. I was going to progress and go on in
this life. He thinks she does not hear him. R.
[Note by Mrs. G. I did not understand the writing at the
time. It says " Sunday morning," a time when we always
saw each other. It must have seemed cruel not to
understand. I thought he referred to "singing," so he
goes to that at last.]
Mrs. G. I want you to say something that I may know it is you.
Oh yes. Yes, you used to sing occasionally sing when
I came to your house. You sang evening evening the
last time I heard you.
0. J. L. (Again putting in his oar) Very likely.
Yes you did.
I think, friend, you had better leave the lady to speak.
0. J. L. Shall I go away 1
I think so, friend.
270 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
0. J. L. May I bring a friend two days hence %
You may bring him.
O. J. L. Farewell then, Rector.
God be with you.
(Mrs. G-. was now left alone with Lady Lodge, and almost
at once the conditions improved. Lady L. kept a record
of what was said, as 0. J. L. had done, and tried to
assist in reading the script.)
Yes I am Martin Wright. [This name, if correctly deciphered,
appears meaningless.]
Joe (illegible : might be Johnson).
Mrs. G. Yes, that is right [meaning that the Christian name was
given correctly].
No, I do not know.
Read me. M. Yes I am Marb
Now do you understand 1
Mrs. G. Yes, right, what next 1
le. Yes, I am he. I am Marbl I am so glad and so very
happy to see you again.
I never shall cease to love you, never, never, shall cease to
love NEVER.
I am now nearer you than ever before, and yet progressing
all the time.
Mrs. G. I must progress too.
Yes, you must ; but you are growing better every year
yes, every year.
Dear Kate, she loves you too, and she longs to help you
in that life. Ask her to do so.
Mrs. G. How shall I get her to do this ? Do you mean pray 1
Yes, and she will always hear you. So shall I.
I see and know when you think of me.
Do you remember you said you could not in that life?
You do understand now so much better.
LVlll.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 271
Mes. G. Yes, I do, but I did not understand then.
It hurt me then, but I understand it all now.
I never loved more.
I see the ring I gave you. I do so well.
I was attracted to it, and how could I help coming back
to you 1
I could not help coming.
I did not wish to help it.
I longed to return, to return. Do you understand 1
Mes. G. Yes, I do.
I tried, Alice, to love many times— a good many times,
but could not, but I could not.
[This is intelligible also, but the explanation would be long.]
At a much later sitting Mrs. Grove again sat, and again had the
shawl with her. Messages came from Kate Sandford, the sister of
Joseph Marble.
Mes. G. Is Kate here ?
Yes I am here dear. Joe feels so bad to think that he
could not understand what you said better. He says
he does understand you about the last dance at his
house, and going home with you.
I understand also all that.
I never knew when I was in the body. . . . [This is true.
She did not know of the terms of affection we were on.
Nor indeed did anyone.]
I am Kate, Joe's sister. I see my object very clearly
[namely the shawl she made] and it helps me so.
Mes. G. Can you tell me whom you have met in your world 1
[This question was intended to extract a reference to her
husband, who long pre-deceased her ;
but, instead, a
curious introduction of a deceased friend, well known
to both, occurs. 0. J. L.']
Do you remember a friend of mine named Weston 1
Mes. G. No I do not.
Do you remember Bet Best Westn, Alice ?
272 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Mrs. G. Yes quite well ; lots of them, the Wests.
Do you ? I have seen her and her father, also Best.
Mrs. G. Is it a gentleman or a lady ?
Don't you remember him ? A gentleman. He asked me
the other day if I had really spoken to you. I told him
I had tried to do so ; and he said, ask her if she re-
members me at all.
Mrs. G. Yes, well. Can he give his Christian name 1
He will. Jim.
Mrs. G. I remember you well.
Jim West. [This was exactly the name he always went by :
he died young. He was a very intimate friend.]
Mrs. G. I am glad to speak to you.
I do not forget you if you forget me.
Mrs. G. Do you remember a dance and supper, and what you
promised to give me 1
It was I who remembered you first ; do not hurry me. I
will recall anything you wish if you give me time. I
am so glad to see you, etc.
[Then came reminiscences of a fan with crests stuck on it,
and of a journey ; but nothing sufficiently clear and
precise —at least to strangers—to be worth quoting as
evidence. The unexpected but quite distinct appearance
of the personality at all was the curious thing. 0. J. L.]
Extracts from further sittings of Mrs. Grove with Mrs. Piper.
After this Mrs. Grove had a sitting without my presence, and the
following is a small part of the record. She kept a copy of all her
own remarks, and I have read it. 0. J. L.
We are surrounded by your friends.
They long to reach you friend of Earth, and unburden their
minds.
The first to greet you is Kitty, Kitty.
[This is Mrs. Kate Sandford, commonly called "Aunt Kitty,"
sister of Mr. Joseph Marble.]
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 273
Mrs. G. Ah, at last the right name. Why did you call yourself Kate
before ?
Because I did it for Rector's understanding.
I am with you dear Alice. I see and understand all your
enquiry, so does Joe. . . .
Alice he loves you dearly, etc.
(Then he was represented as saying,)
Have you any idea of my joy at meeting you 1
I feel it must mean much to me as life goes on.
With you in the body this privilege of speaking to you is
everything to me. It helps me to free my mind. And
my sister has been so patient and kind to me. She has
helped me to find you dear, as she came to this life after
I did. [Correct.]
Pray for me always, etc.
(Then some messages for identification, such as)
He used to go down to those buildings, his works, and mix
the materials [to some extent specified] for the workmen.
He supervised it himself and used to judge of their work
after they were completed. [This was all correct.]
(Then a communication about one of the late workmen, not
yet verified.) [A great number of details were given,
but there appears no means of verifying them at
present, though an attempt has been made. 0. J. X.]
Mrs. G. I am going home soon and will enquire.
Good I am glad. Bridge. Bridge.
He is spelling it out to me. Sounds like Stale Stale Bridge
Stale.
Mrs. G. Yes that's right.
Works at Bridge Staly.
Now dear I am not sure that I can give you further proofs
of identity, because I am Marble, and I am serious and
in earnest. I love you dearly. I always did, and my
life would be a barren waste, he says a barren waste,
without your prayers and love.
s
274 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Mrs. G. A barren waste ? I thought you were happy.
Oh yes, I am absolutely happy.
I understand so much better now.
Mrs. G. What should I pray for ?
For a re-union of our souls, for my peace, and for me to be
able to reach you in this meagre and simple way.
Mrs. G. Do you wish to come ?
It has helped me more than you can ever realise ; and if I
do not speak again it will not injure me, as I have
practically freed my mind, as I have practically freed my
mind. It has been such a help to me and to Kitty also.
Mrs. G. Dear 'Aunt Kitty.'
That sounds so natural to me.
I love to hear it.
Do you love me, and do you understand how blind I was ?
Forgive me.
Mrs. G. You mean your incredulity ; but you cannot make people
believe.
Yes, but I was so stupid, I would not believe dear.
Now I understand I am sorry I did not.
Mrs. G. Does it make any difference 1
Only I feel I hurt you dear.
Mrs. G. Not much.
But I did not have the opportunity, did I really dear 1
Mrs. G. No.
It is time to close now. E.
The few opportunities afforded by later sittings were utilised for
reiterated communications, intended to be evidential, regarding the
present state of an old workman whom the Marble control wanted
found and helped through the agency of his daughter Peggy, whom
he correctly named. But hitherto it has been impossible to ascertain
the facts or to get any co-operation from this source.
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 275
If verified in the future, this part may be extremely good, but at
present it would be absurd to quote it. So—though carefully re-
corded and filed—it is left unreported. The mingled restraint and
utterance of the Marble control, throughout, were exceedingly natural,
and practically overcame the incredulity of the sitter—at any rate
for the time.
Experiment on the recognition of a Photograph of one of the Controls.
The waking stages of the last sitting of the first Edgbaston series
in December, 1906, and of the first of the second series in
May, 1907, —with an interval between them of five months,
are worth recording because of an experiment I made in connexion
with the likeness of a person supposed to have been communicating
during the trance (in this case Mr. Marble) : the point being to see
whether there would be any recognition of a photograph by the
automatist before her state had become entirely normal, —that is
during the sort of period in which it is customarily possible dimly
to remember dreams. This stage is referred to by Dr. Hodgson on
page 401 of Vol. 13—where he calls it Mrs. Piper's subliminal stage,
a,nd says that it is a condition in which she frequently has visions
of the distant or departing " communicators."
On the first occasion I waited rather a long time before trying
the experiment,—something more than an hour, and the recognition
was uncertain; but faint as it was, it seemed to be a residual effect
of the trance ; since it was not permanent, and by next day had
entirely disappeared.
On the second occasion I tried directly after the waking-stage
was complete ; and then the recognition was immediate and certain.
But in a few minutes it had become vague and dim, and before
the end of the day it had again completely ceased.
The following is the complete contemporary record of Mrs. Piper's
somnambulic utterances during the first of these two waking stages.
The ejaculations happen to be foreign to the present case, since
they refer to the concerns of a stranger who had recently had a
sitting but who was now absent. Incidentally I may mention that the
description now given of this sitter's deceased mother, who had been
represented as communicating during the sitting, is correct and
evidential.
Mr. Marble had also been represented as communicating during a
portion of the same sitting, and that is why I tried the experiment
276 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
which in the sequel is described ;
though I tried it under better
conditions after the waking stage of the next ensuing sitting, as
subsequently reported.
Waking Stage of No. 13.
Myers, Myers. I made it what it is. I did it. I made it.
Light. William. Franklin. Mildred. My son.
Mr. Myers is in the light there.
A lot of people trying to get through.
He made it all it was.
(Looking at 0. J. L.) A man in the body.
A line. A line goes from me to them.
What Myers said was,—I made it what it was.
I have more for you. Hewitt, Ewart, Hewitt. One, two,
three.
Who is Mary, and Mary's son ? William. Franklin. Franklin.
Franklin. Alexis. [These names, though not all correct,
have a meaning in connexion with another sitter ; and
the following is a true description of his deceased mother.]
She is so beautiful. Hair parted in the middle, puffed out
a little over ears.
Nose is not very long but straight.
Shuts her mouth like this, tight.
Short and full in cheeks.
Blue eyes with a little grey in them, and she had a little
mark on cheek (touching right cheek not far from mouth.)
She was laughing away. —
Isn't that funny 1 I knew you were there, but I could not
speak to you. You looked so small.
You grew so much larger. Hear that ! it's gone.
I have got used to the room now.
I saw a circle, kept going round and round.
Very light. But it has gone. I do not like to come back
here.
When the light shines in I see all sorts of things in the
room.
Sequel to No. 13.
Sitting lasted from 11.10 to 1.10.
After lunch I took eleven photographs of men, and asked Mrs.
Piper if she had ever seen any of them. She looked over them,
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 277
hesitating on the one representing Mr. Joseph Marble for some
time, and then picked that out and said she had seen that man
somewhere, but she could not remember where. Nothing was said
by me during the process, of course.
Next day, in the evening, I tested Mrs. Piper again with another
set of photographs of men, partly the same and partly different,
but containing among others the critical one. This time, however,
it was looked at without comment and without interest, and no
remembrance of the appearance seemed to persist. She remembered
the fact of having recognised one before ; but when asked to do it
again, she picked out, after much hesitation, a different one as a
possibility, and said that she thought it had been found in America
that the memory evaporated in time, and that it was strongest
within an hour of the sitting. The test made the day before had
been made about an hour and a half after the sitting.
And this is the record of the second of the two waking-stages, five
months later : the '
Joe ' here referred to is Mr. Marble, who had
been represented as communicating during the sitting :
IFaking Stage of No. 14.
All right. I will. Do not like it.
It must be a house. Blacker one.
Black one. I do not like it. Do not want you.
I want the other place. You look funny.
I wonder. Mrs. Heath says he wants letter to Edith.
Likely to be better. All the time from now on.
Mr. Myers would help Joe get matters clear.
Help Joe make it completely clear. I do not know what I
had to do with it. Something help persuade Mr.
Ridgeway (?) to grasp the idea of it.
You are ugly to say the least. I never.
I would not look like you. I do not like it at all.
If you looked like Mr. Myers you would not look so black.
Fine looking man, his name is Joe.
Mr. Hodgson keeps pushing him in the front row. Foreground.
What is the difference between [some name not heard] and
you. Are you alive.
(Yes.) There are others more alive than you are up there.
Head snap. I was all the time trying to find out who you
were, and could not place you at all.
278 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
You looked so small. Then a veil came down.
Flowers and things I saw. A gentleman tried to tell me
something, and then I forgot it.
Another snap. I see you plainly.
I was so numb. I am not numb now. My hands were so
heavy.
You do not tease me. Mr. Piddington used to tease me.
He was a large man and then all of a sudden he went out.
He was a nice looking man.
(A number of men's photographs were now placed in a
row before her : she immediately pounced on one
without the slightest hesitation.)
That is the man I saw. I saw him. That is the man I
saw. I saw him up there : such a nice face. I could
see him. I could see Mr. Hodgson pushing him up to
the front.
[The selection was correct; the photograph was one of the
person she calls Joe, i.e. of the late Mr. Joseph Marble.]
Sequel to No. 14 an hour or so later.
A sitting, was it not? Perhaps my going to London was a
good thing for me.
When Mrs. Sidgwick said she was glad, I was very much
astonished, because she does not say anything at all.
Mr. Piddington told me he was a medium too.
(I now again put the photographs in front of her. She
looked at them as if for the first time, and said)
I do not know the photographs.
(She then hesitated long over the right one, saying she had
'seen him somewhere,' but finished up by saying)
No, I do not know.
Comment.
The result of this experiment, with other experiences relating to
the description of the personal appearance of a person spoken of
in the trance, has satisfied me that —whatever may be the cause
a visual likeness of the people supposed to be communicating in
the trance is sometimes really impressed at the time upon the
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter VIII. 279
subconscious mind of Mrs. Piper. A veridical dream impression
seems to be caused in these cases; but like other dream impressions
it fades. The visual impression is merely an extension of the
impression of character and of speech, which is also impressed upon
the same stratum of her subconsciousness, and is of a similarly
evanescent character.
During trance undoubtedly her subconsciousness is thus, at least
occasionally, in touch with a simulacrum or hallucinatory representa-
tion of a deceased person, —whatever be the cause—a telepathic
impression received from the sitter perhaps, or as appears more
likely, from the surviving influence of the deceased person.
That much is certain; and to deny that, is merely to refuse to
be informed by facts of experience. But of what nature this
evanescent but for a time vivid impression of appearance and character
and personality really is, is a more difficult question, on which at
present I do not feel competent to express an opinion. For what
it is worth, however, my instinct leads me to judge that it is not
solely due to a telepathic impulse from the sitter—in spite of the
fact that the sympathy and understanding of the sitter is a great
help, and indeed a determining cause why one set of impressions is
produced and not a totally different set. Undoubtedly the existence
of real interest and affection on the part of a person present is the
awakening cause of any particular veridical impression. It is that
which determines the selection out of the infinite multitude of other
impressions which otherwise might equally well be produced. But
although sympathy of this kind is the selective and determining
cause, I do not feel that it is the creative or constructive cause.
It appears to me that there is an agency or energy lying ready,
which is capable of arousing in the subconsciousness of an entranced
person, or of persons endowed with automatic faculty, a vast multi-
tude of impressions—good bad and indifferent; and that out of this
multitude of possible impressions some are selected with more or
less discrimination as appropriate to a particular case, —the presence
of a sitter being the detent or trigger which liberates or guides the
energy in one direction and not in another.
End of the present report on the Joseph Marble series.
280 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
CHAPTER IX.
SUPPLEMENTARY REMARKS.
Phinuit.
It was of some interest to me to see what the Controls of recent
times had to say about the ancient Control calling itself Phinuit
and accordingly I asked questions in Sitting No. 11, of which the
record stands as follows :
0. J. L. May I ask a question ? Does '
Phinuit ' mean anything to
you 1
You mean Dr. Phinuit. Oh yes, we see him occasionally,
friend ; he is in another sphere of this life, no longer
earth-bound, and he is very well and very happy.
0. J. L. He was a friend of mine. [By this I meant that during the
old Piper sittings I was on friendly and even affectionate
terms with this curious and not universally appreciated
impersonator.]
Could you by any possibility be the friend on earth whom
he called '
Captain ' ?
0. J. L. Yes indeed, that is me.
(Excitement in hand.)
Would you like to see and speak with him 1
0. J. L. I should if it did him no harm.
Oh no harm in the least ; he is beyond harm, friend ; he
has so progressed. He will no doubt be glad to return.
We will speak with him and report his doings. This
also.
0. J. L. Will you give him my love 1
I will give him your love certainly with great pleasure.
He is a much better spirit than he was thought to have
been. He fell in with the wrong element to begin with.
U.D. Wrong i.e. on the earthly side. I will see him
and report at our next meeting. R.
lviii ] On Trance Communications, Chapter IX. 281
And at the next sitting at which I was present the following
came :
We found Phinuit, and gave him your message. He sends
his love in return and says if you would like to speak
with him, really, he would endeavour to return to you
through the light at our next meeting ; and he says
he remembers you and your companion—with deepest
affection and appreciation of his anxious efforts to tell
of our world and its inhabitants — — —
0. J. L. Well, I do not know that it would be good for the machine
to ask him to return ; moreover I am not sure that we
shall have another sitting here.
You must speak to + about his returning next time through
the voice, which he would be glad to do himself. U.D.
R.
0. J. L. Please thank him, but I do not know that there is any
object in getting him to speak.
Oh yes. Well friend, we were about to say that he, Dr.
Phinuit is not in the least anxious to return to earth
again, as he had quite enough while he was there.
0. J. L. Very well then, please remember me to him kindly.
Yes, we certainly will do so.
I don't know whether it was wise thus to discourage a temporary
return of Phinuit. The fact is, I felt it to be rather too much of a
responsibility to interfere with the conditions of control ;
especially as
the entry of Phinuit, in past times, had been usually accompanied
with contortions and some slight apparent discomfort. Tiie oncoming
of the trance is now-a-days so placid that I thought it best to leave
well alone ; but I confess that it would have been interesting to see
whether the Phinuit personality would have reappeared, with all its
original peculiarities unchanged.
Concluding Observations.
I have not reported all the sittings at which I was present—it
would be tedious to do so. Those held with Prof. Muirhead are
omitted because they were not specially good, and it is a tax upon
the reader to introduce him unnecessarily to a further set of relatives.
282 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
The controls did not treat him from the Professorial point of view,
but from the domestic, just as they used to in the Phinuit days.
I need hardly point out how much more easy it would be to "get
up " Professorial details than obscure family incidents. Those how-
ever are what are still attended to : so every series of sittings with
a stranger involves trouble analogous to that which must be taken
when beginning to read a new novel ; and unless the novel is fairly
good, the trouble is not worth while.
The sittings omitted do not appear to me to throw any additional
light upon the procedure ; and the question arises—what is the
outcome of it all, so far as my own impression of the above series
of facts is concerned.
On the whole, they tend to render certain the existence of some
outside intelligence or control, distinct from the consciousness, and
as far as I can judge from the subconsciousness also, of Mrs. Piper
or other medium. And they tend to render probable the working-
hypothesis, on which I choose to proceed, that that version of the
nature of the intelligences which they themselves present and favour
is something like the truth. In other words I feel that we are in
secondary or tertiary touch—at least occasionally—with some stratum
of the surviving personality of the individuals who are represented
as sending messages.
I call the touch secondary, because it is always through the medium
and not direct; and I call it generally tertiary, because it represents
itself as nearly always operating through an agency or medium on
that side also—an agency which calls itself 'Rector' or 'Phinuit.'
That these latter impersonations are really themselves individuals I
do not venture either to assert or deny ; but it is difficult or impossible
to bring them to book, and an examination of their nature may be
deferred : it is the impersonation of verifiable or terrestrially known
individuals to which it behoves us in the first instance to pay
attention.
Very well then, I feel bound to say that in the old days when
conversing with the Gurney control through Mrs. Piper, as reported
in Chapter II., I felt very much as if I were conversing under diffi-
culties with Edmund Gurney. And he appeared to be in real '
control
for the time—so that lapses and uncertainties and occasional con-
fusions, in his case, were rather rare.
But when the Myers and Hodgson controls now send messages
through Mrs. Piper, as above reported, I have very little feeling of
that kind. They seemed in my case rather shadowy, and so to
lviil] On Trance Communications, Chapter IX. 283
speak uninteresting, communicators. It is true I did not give them
much chance or encouragement, and under better treatment they
flourished and blossomed as reported by Mr. Piddington ; but if my
opinion had to depend on my own Piper sittings alone, I should not
be strongly impressed by these personalities.
When '
Isaac Thompson ' was the communicator, however, I was
favourably impressed on the whole, and consider that this part of
the record strengthens rather than weakens the case not only for
survival but for intelligent and affectionate intercourse. In particular
I think that the sitting reported by Dr. Hodgson from America,
when '
Isaac Thompson ' appeared on the scene after his son had left
for England, was sjaecially good and dramatic (pp. 166, 7).
The "Myers" utterances which have impressed me most were those
obtained at two sittings with Mrs. Thompson (then of Hampstead)
soon after his decease, —as reported above in somewhat abbreviated
form, in Chapter IV., which is perhaps one of the most notable
portions of this whole document. It is of course to be admitted
that few things—perhaps nothing—obtained through a medium so
well acquainted with Mr. Myers as Mrs. Thompson was can be
regarded as strictly evidential ;
but, in spite of that, the dramatic
verisimilitude was very marked—especially in some of the omitted
fragments.
There remains the Mrs. Grove case, at some of which I was present.
This series, for several reasons, must be regarded as the most strictly
evidential of all ; and a decided unity of character and of message
is preserved, no matter through what medium the communication
comes. But the hypothesis of telepathy from the sitter, if stretched
sufficiently, will cover all the reported portions : and in such a case
this notion constitutes a difficulty which can hardly be avoided.
At the same time I must say that I find this hypothesis not very
probable, —it does not at all satisfy my mind as an explanation. On
the whole the surviving and communicating intelligence hypothesis
commends itself to me as the most likely.
Readers who happen to know that I myself am convinced of the
fact of the survival of human personality beyond bodily death may
be surprised at this critical attitude, since they may think such an
attitude inconsistent with that belief. But the main question before
us is whether the additional evidence now adduced strengthens the
previous verdict in favour of the possibility of conscious communi-
cation. It is not easy to strengthen it, because it was already-
strong.
284 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
A careful analysis and examination of the facts both for and against
the genuine activity of deceased communicators has been made by
Dr. Hodgson, and will be found in his Report in Proc. Vol. 13,
pages 357-412. He is led distinctly to countenance, and indeed to
champion, a cautious and discriminating form of spiritistic theory,
not as a working hypothesis only, but as truly representing part of
the facts. His experience was so large, and his critical faculty so
awake, that such a conclusion of his is entitled to the gravest con-
sideration. If I had to pronounce a prematurely decided opinion,
my own view would agree with his.
The old series of sittings with Mrs. Piper convinced me of survival,
for reasons which I should find it hard to formulate in any strict
fashion, but that was their distinct effect. They also made me
suspect—or more than suspect—that surviving intelligences were in
some cases consciously communicating, — r
es in some few cases con-
sciously ;
though more usually the messages came in all probability
from an unconscious stratum, being received by the medium in an
inspirational manner analogous to psychometry.
This Report's usefulness, if it has any, must chiefly lie in the
additional information to be gleaned from it regarding the process
and the difficulties of conscious inter-communion between our own
minds and whatever stratum of consciousness is operating on them
from the other side. The hypothesis of surviving intelligence and
personality, —not only surviving but anxious and able with difficulty
to communicate, —is the simplest and most straightforward, and the
only one that fits all the facts. But the process of communication
is sophisticated by many influences, so that it is very difficult,
perhaps at present impossible, to disentangle and exhibit clearly the
part that each plays.
One thing that conspicuously suggests itself is that we are here
made aware, through these trivial but illuminating facts, of a process
which by religious people has always been recognised and insisted
on, namely the direct interaction of incarnate with discarnate mind,
that is to say, an intercourse between mind and mind in more
than one grade of existence, by means apart from, and independent
of, the temporary mechanism of the body.
The facts indeed open the way to a perception of the influence of
spirit generally, as a guiding force in human and terrestrial affairs,
active not under the exceptional circumstances of trance alone, but
always and constantly and normally, —so uniformly active in fact
that by ordinary people its agency is undetected and unperceived.
lviii.] On Trance Communications, Chapter IX. 285
Most people are far too busy to attend : they are too thoroughly
occupied with what for the time are certainly extremely important
affairs. A race of inspired people would be hopelessly unpractical,
though Society is usually grateful for the existence and utterance of
a few individuals of this type.
The fact that these communications are obtained through sub-
conscious agency is sometimes held to militate against their importance
as a subject of study. But have not men of genius sometimes testi-
fied that brilliant ideas do surge up into their consciousness from
some submerged stratum, at a time when they are incompletely
awake to the things of this world
1
? And ordinary people are aware
that a brown study favours the conscious reception of something
presumably akin to inspiration, by relegating ordinary experience to
the background, and thereby enabling new and unfamiliar ideas to
enter or germinate in the mind.
A trance, or any state of complete unconsciousness, renders the
normal though obscure activity of an unfamiliar psychical region
still more manifest. Not indeed to the patient, —who is unaware of
the whole phenomenon, or remembers it only after the indistinct and
temporary fashion of a dream, —but to an observer or experimenter,
who is allowed to enlarge his experience and to receive impressions
by deputy ;
thereby attaining, at second hand, some of the privileges
of intuition or clairvoyance, or even of genius, while he himself
remains in an ordinary and businesslike condition. His experience
in fact may be regarded as an undeserved, and therefore only
moderately valuable, kind of vicarious inspiration.
286 Professor A. C. Pigou, [part
IV.
PSYCHICAL RESEARCH AND SURVIVAL AFTER
BODILY DEATH.
By Professor A. C. Pigou.
1. The question whether men and women survive bodily
death contains three ambiguities. There is ambiguity in the
term survive ;
ambiguity in the term man or woman ; and
ambiguity in the use of the plural " men and women."
The ambiguity connected with " survive " is philosophical.
If any one asks whether cats survive immersion in water, it
does not occur to us to bring to bear on that problem a
metaphysical discussion concerning the reality of time ; we
assume, in fact, that time is real, and we mean by " surviving
immersion " being alive after immersion. When, however, our
question relates to men and women and bodily death the
idealist philosopher enters the arena and claims that time,
with all that therein is, is a purely subjective condition of
human perception ; that in reality there is no after and no
before ; that survival and death alike are appearance ; that
men and women, as spirit, neither survive nor die, but in
some sense eternally are. This doctrine I do not propose to
discuss here. To any one who accepts it the question of
survival in the ordinary sense must seem trivial, if not mean-
ingless. For my own part, I provisionally hold the opinion
that time is real, and I address this paper only to persons
who share that view.
The second ambiguity in our question concerns the term
man or woman. In ordinary life this term carries with it an
idea of physical bodies. From the present standpoint it is
obvious that that idea must be eliminated. The thing about
which debate should turn is, I suppose, what we somewhat
vaguely term the conscious mind. But what, for our purpose,
lviil] Psychical Research and Survival. 287
is this entity ? When we ask whether a seed survives burning,
the answer may be different according as seed is understood
to mean, on the one hand, a mere quantity of matter or, on the
other hand, matter in a special form with special properties.
We are in the same difficulty with regard to " conscious mind."
The idea of absorption of the individual consciousness into a
larger Whole, and its survival somehow in the Whole, is no
less familiar than that of personal survival. This complication
is the more serious, at least for me, on account of my complete
inability to grasp or understand the notion of absorption of
one conscious mind into another, I do not, however, wish to
debate this complication. Perhaps for the present purpose we
may so far compromise as to say that conscious mind survives
if, after the death of a person, there is added to the Whole,
whether absorbed in it or not, a conscious mind that has some
sort of continuity in memory and quality with the person who
has died. I am quite aware that this is exceedingly unsatis-
factory and vague, but the difficulty seems to be inherent in
the subject.
The remaining ambiguity, that involved in the use of the
plural, " men and women," is obvious. " Men and women " may
mean either " all men and women " or " any men and women."
It seems to me plain that psychical research can never give
a direct answer to the question whether all men and women
survive death. A proof that some survive would give but
slight warrant for the wider thesis. In what follows, there-
fore, I shall understand by " men and women " " any men and
women." Do any men and women survive bodily death ?
§ 2. The question thus framed and limited is believed by
some persons to be answered affirmatively by an appeal to
revelation or to the beneficence of God. In like manner it is
believed by other persons to be answered negatively by legiti-
mate inference from the science of physiology. I am not
myself able to accept either of these lines of argument. The
question of survival seems to me to be on a par with the
question whether some entity that we are able to conceive
exists in fact in the real world. The answer to this cannot
be found by a priori but only by a posteriori study : it is a
matter of evidence and probabilities of the sort commonly
investigated by science.
288 Professor A. G. Pigou. [part
§ 3. In recent publications of the Society for Psychical
Research there is material that, in the opinion of several com-
petent persons, makes it probable that Frederic Myers, Henry
Sidgwick, and others have, in some sense, survived bodily
death. This material it is the business of my paper to
examine. Before, however, that task is attempted, it is
necessary to see, so far as we can, how the problem stands
apart from this new evidence. Let us suppose—what is
approximately the case—that, apart from these data, there
is no direct evidence whatever for the survival of any
dead man or woman. Should we, in that case, say that
it is an even chance whether people survive or not, or
that survival is exceedingly improbable, or that there is no
determinate probability about the matter—no alleviation what-
ever to our ignorance ? I have no confident opinion on this
difficult point. The interdependence of mind and brain in
life as we know it does not, of course, logically imply that
the two perish together, but it does, as it seems to me, make
that event in some small measure probable. On the strength
of this—the one relevant fact in our deep ignorance,—I am
inclined to say that initially, and apart from the new evidence,
survival is somewhat improbable. The hypotheses of survival
and of non-survival do not start exactly on a level : the scales
are inclined in favour of the latter.
§ 4. The evidence that psychical research has to offer is
of two sorts : first, the provision of information unknown to
any living person, but known to some person who is dead
secondly, the performance of some act not easily explained as
the result of the agency of living persons, and claiming to be
due to a dead person. Of these two sorts of evidence the
former is at present practically non-existent. The tests pre-
pared by means of sealed envelopes have not been successful
there is nothing substantial enough to afford the basis for an
argument. With the second sort of evidence, however, the
case is different. It again may conveniently be separated
under two heads : first, the impression of individuality con-
veyed, to those who knew Myers and the other alleged controls
when alive, by the general form and content of the automatic
speech and script claiming to come from them ;
secondly, the
cross-correspondences recently discovered between the script of
LVIII.] Psychical Research and Survival. 289
various automatists. The former sort of evidence I shall not
consider here. What I have to say refers exclusively to the
latter.
'
§ 5. The three volumes of the Society's Proceedings which
deal with the automatic writing produced by Mrs. Holland,
Mrs. Verrall, and Mrs. Piper under the alleged influence of
various discarnate intelligences make a case for survival that
is prima facie sufficiently strong to warrant careful study. The
phenomena observed consist mainly of cross-correspondences
between the contents of the scripts of two or more automatists
—cross-correspondences announced in the script themselves and
claiming to be the deliberate work of Myers, " Talbot Forbes,"
or some other " control." The cross-correspondences that have
been discovered may be divided, according to Mr. Gerald
Balfour's nomenclature, into two groups, simple correspondences
and complementary correspondences.
1
An ideal simple corre-
spondence would occur if an idea given through one automatist
were transferred directly to another : an ideal complementary
correspondence if ideas unmeaning individually, but significant
in combination, were given through several automatists. In
the concrete, o'f course, it may not always be easy to decide
with which of these two groups any assigned correspondence
should be classed. In the opinion, however, of Miss Johnson
and other investigators there is a fair number of cases that are
not marginal, but can be labelled definitely as belonging to
the one or the other kind.
§ 6. The question whether the facts that have been obtained
make it probable that Myers and the others really survive
breaks up naturally into three parts : first, we have to
decide how probable it is that there is any common cause
operating on the different scripts and responsible for their
correspondences ;
secondly, if there is such a cause, how prob-
able it is that this cause is some discarnate mind ;
thirdly,
if the cause is some discarnate mind, how probable it is that
it is the mind of that deceased person with whom it claims
to be identical. These questions I shall discuss in order.
§ 7. First : suppose that there are two novels written by
two different people. Three things are possible : the plot
and the language of each may have been fashioned by causes
1
The Hibbert Journal, Jan. 1909, p. 247.
T
290 Professor A. C. Pigou. [part
entirely independent of one another : they may have been
fashioned by some independent and some common causes ; or
they may have been fashioned entirely by common causes.
Let us imagine that the two novels are identical throughout
word for word. We should then reason in this way : if
they have been fashioned by independent causes, this result
is extremely improbable. Hence, unless the existence of a
common cause is also extraordinarily improbable a priori,
such a cause has almost certainly been at work. The proba-
bility of this conclusion is not, except in a special case,
measured by the improbability of the correspondence arising
under a regime of independent causes ; for its magnitude is
affected by the a priori probability of the existence of a
common cause. Still, in such a case as I have supposed,
everybody would judge, and that rightly, that there was
almost certainly a common cause in operation. The problem
is, however, more complicated in the concrete. Let us imagine
that the novels are not identical, but have some measure of
resemblance. We know that there are some common causes
affecting contemporary novelists in the same country :
—they
speak the same language ;
they live in the same atmosphere ;
they move among the same events ;
—and we wish to know
whether the resemblance is sufficient to make it probable that
any further common cause has been at work. To such a
problem no precise answer can be given in general terms
we have to balance up in our minds the degree of observed
resemblance, the importance of the known common causes,
and the a priori probability of the existence of an unknown
common cause, and having clone this, to judge as best we
may. This is the class of problem presented by the corre-
sponding scripts of Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. Piper, and Mrs. Holland:
—is the measure of correspondence sufficient to make probable
the operation of some common cause over and above that
provided by similarity of environment and interests ? This is
a cpuestion which everybody must answer for himself after a
study of the scripts. Personally, I agree with the judgment
formed by practically all those who have investigated the
matter, that the presence of some special common cause is
probable in a fairly high degree—the sort of degree in which
I should judge it to be probable that there was a common
LYIII.] Psychical Research and Survival. 291
source to which both St. Luke and St. Matthew had access
in writing their gospels.
| 8. If so much be granted, we have next to ask how
probable it is that this assumed common cause is the influ-
ence of a discarnate mind. I shall simplify the problem by
excluding at once the hypothesis of conscious fraud or collusion
between the various automatists concerned. This hypothesis is
not, of course, impossible, but it is (as I think) iu view of
all the circumstances, so improbable as not to deserve serious
consideration. We are, therefore, left with the alternative
hypotheses of the influence through some supernormal channel
of an incarnate mind or of the influence of a discarnate mind.
It is not permitted, be it observed, at this point to turn round
and declare that both these hypotheses are grotesque and im-
possible. Anybody who takes that view must have parted
company with me earlier. If collusion and fraud are ruled
out, to concede that some common cause is probable is prac-
tically equivalent to conceding that one of these causes is
probable. What we have to do, therefore, is simply to consider
the relative probability of supernormal incarnate and of dis-
carnate agency.
§ 9. At this point we are confronted directly with a logical
difficulty that has long been haunting the discussion. When
we have to judge whether it is more probable that our gyp
or our bedmaker's son is responsible for the abstraction of
cigarettes, we in general start fair. We know that they are
both agencies who might have performed the deed. But imagine
this case. Suppose it to be certain that the cigarettes were
taken either by the gyp or by the son of our bedmaker, but
that it is a priori somewhat improbable that our bedmaker has
a son. Suppose, furthermore, that our cigarettes are so care-
fully concealed and our gyp is of such mean intelligence that
it is a priori very improbable he could discover them. In
such a case as that, how are we to determine the relative
final probability that our bedmaker has a son who took the
cigarettes or that our gyp took them ? That problem—it has
its parallel in the speculations of physical science—is closely
analogous to the one with which we are now dealing. The
subliminal self corresponds to the gyp : a discarnate intelli-
gence, Myers or another, to the hypothetical bedmaker's son.
292 Professor A. C. Pigou. [part
The argument in favour of the discarnate intelligence endeavours
to show that the subliminal consciousness is not sufficiently
competent to bring about the effect that has in fact occurred.
In such a discussion it seems almost impossible to lay down
any canons of judgment. The gyp, since we know him to
exist, has some initial advantage ; the bedmaker's son may not
exist at all, and, if he does exist, may, for all we know, be
even less intelligent than the gyp, and less competent than he
to discover where the cigarettes are concealed. On the other
hand, a bedmaker's son, particularly a bedmaker's discarnate
son, may possess powers of discovery and abstraction undreamt
of in a gyp's philosophy. The only conclusion to which I can
come is that, if the problem is presented in the general form
in which I have stated it, no solution can be found.
§ 10. The actual problem which the new facts published by
the Psychical Research Society present does not, however,
seem to me so difficult as this. If the abstraction of cigarettes
from places similar to that in which I had concealed mine
could be shown to be an act of the same class as many acts
which my gyp was known to perform, I should conclude at
once that he was the probable culprit, and should certainly
not, on the evidence, suspend judgment between him and a
hypothetical and a priori somewhat improbable bedmaker's
son. In like manner, if the subliminal consciousness can be
shown to be responsible for the same class of phenomena as
these recent correspondences, it is, and should be judged, the
probable cause of them also. This conclusion would be in
conformity with the recognised methods of science, and is, I
think, logically correct. The new arguments for survival
depend largely upon the thesis that the correspondences which
have recently occurred are not paralleled by any known
operations of the subliminal self. If the thesis is incorrect,
the argument dissolves. I propose to contest the thesis.
8 11. Simple correspondences between the impressions of two
automatists are well known to occur under conditions which
make it probable that the agent is the subliminal conscious-
ness of one of the persons concerned. If proof of this is
recpuired, I may cite the experiments recently conducted at a
distance, sometimes of 20, and sometimes of 400 miles between
Miss Eamsden and Miss Miles. The experiments were not
LVIII.] Psychical Research and Survival. 293
concerned with automatic writing, but consisted in attempts
on the part of Miss Miles to transfer impressions of objects
to Miss Eamsden, Miss Miles arranging to concentrate atten-
tion on some object, and Miss Eamsden to sit for impressions
at times previously arranged. Had it merely happened that
this experiment partially succeeded in its direct object, that
circumstance would not perhaps have much bearing on our
present discussion. Curiously enough, however, as Miss Eams-
den has observed, " those (impressions) which are the most
surprisingly correct are some which were not intentionally
transferred at all."
1
Miss Eamsden's impression would refer to
something that had happened to Miss Miles in the course of
the day, and not to the object of which she sought to transfer
a picture at the time of the sitting. This circumstance seems
to me to show that the subliminal self of one person is
sometimes capable of influencing the perceptions of another
apart from conscious will. Hence, the subliminal self of, say,
Mrs. Verrall, could probably bring about a simple correspond-
ence between her automatic script and that of some other
scribe. In explaining the simple correspondences that have
occurred by the hypothesis that this is what has in fact
happened, we should not need to assign to the subliminal self
any powers beyond those which we already have strong reason
to believe that it sometimes possesses. If, therefore, we had
to do only with simple correspondences, the proper conclusion,
as I have already indicated, would be that the subliminal self
of one of the automatists was probably responsible. The fact
that the correspondences are claimed in the scripts themselves
to be the work of discarnate intelligences is, in view of the
frequency with which the subliminal consciousness is known to
impersonate real or imaginary people, quite inadequate to rebut
this conclusion.
§ 12. It is by no means my intention to suggest that
those who have been responsible for the recent investigations
have ignored this consideration. On the contrary, they have
fully realized its importance, and, because they have realized
this, have laid very little stress upon cases of simple cor-
respondence. The weakness of such cases as evidence of the
action of a discarnate mind is explicitly admitted by Miss
,
1
Proceedings, Yol. XXL, pp. 92-3.
294 Professor A. C. Pigou. [part
Johnson in her report on The automatic writing of Mrs. Holland.
" If," she writes, " we simply find the same idea expressed
even though in different forms—by both [of two automatists]
it may most easily be explained by telepathy between them"; 1—
or, as I should prefer to put it, by the agency of the sub-
liminal self of one or both of them. The cases which, in the
view of Miss Johnson, Mr. Piddington, and others, do possess
evidential value are cases, not of simple, but of complemen-
tary correspondences. " The characteristic of these cases," Miss
Johnson writes, " or at least of some of them, is that we do
not get in the writing of one automatist anything like a
mechanical verbatim reproduction of phrases in the other ; we
do not even get the same idea expressed in different ways. . . .
What we get is a fragmentary utterance in one script, which
seems to have no particular point or meaning, and another
fragmentary utterance in the other, of an ecjually pointless
character ; but when we put the two together, we see that
they supplement one another, and that there is apparently one
coherent idea underlying both, but only partially expressed in
each."
"
2
The question whether the production of those cor-
respondences of this class which have hitherto been recorded
is outside the powers that we know in other ways sometimes
to belong to the subliminal self cannot be answered so easily
as the analogous question concerning simple correspondences.
Nevertheless, it can (as I think) be answered quite decidedly
in the negative.
§ 13. In the discussion of this problem there is some
danger of confusion between the two questions, (1) whether
the complementariness in complementary correspondences is
intentional, and (2) to what agent the correspondences are
probably due. The logical connection between these questions
seems to me to be as follows. If it can be shown that the
complementariness in any particular complementary correspon-
dence is probably the result not of intention but of accident,
the correspondence in question must be regarded, when we
come to investigate the probable agent, as equivalent to a
simple correspondence. The manufacture of simple correspon-
dences does not, however, as has already been argued, lie
outside the known powers of the subliminal consciousness.
1
Proceedings, Vol. XXL, p. 375. -Ibid., p. 375.
LVIII.] Psychical Research and Survival. 295
Therefore, to show that intention is probably absent in any
set of complementary correspondences is equivalent to showing
that the manufacture of these correspondences does not lie
outside the said known powers. This sort of reasoning affords,
I think, a convenient method of eliminating from the dis-
cussion a number of complementary correspondences in which
the element of complementariness is small. It is a characteristic
of thought-transference that the percipient often fails to get
the word which the agent is endeavouring to transfer by a
direct process. Something like the idea embodied in the word
may come first, or something like the sound embodied in it,
or something connected somehow with either the idea or the
sound. In Miss Kamsden-s and Miss Miles's experiments
there are two cases of this sort. On one occasion, when
Miss Miles attempted to transfer Sphinx, Miss Ramsdeu
obtained, among other things, Luxor in Egypt 1
on another
occasion when Bishop was the object of the experiment,
Miss Eamsdeu concluded in sequence " latme, Bishop Latimer,
Archbishop." 2
The same characteristic is observable in
numerous cases recorded in Mr. Piddington's study of Mrs.
Piper, where the controls undertake to transfer a particular
word from Mrs. Piper to Mrs. Verrall. The word is not
given directly, but there is an evident groping towards it,
•attempts to get at it now along the route of sound, now
along that of sense. In view of this quality in
thought-transference we are entitled to claim that, if the
subliminal self of, say, Mrs. Verrall, were trying to impress
any given idea upon the automatic script both of Mrs.
Verrall herself and of some other automatist, the correspon-
dences actually achieved would often not be exact. The two
scripts would, indeed, be orientated about the same idea
but they would be very far from identical. If we compare
the word aimed at to the bull of a target, it is in a high
degree probable that attempts to hit the bull would result
in shots scattered widely round it. In other words, mildly
complementary correspondences are likely to result from
attempts at simple correspondences. The complementariness is
probably not intentional, and its presence has no significance.
§14. I do not myself feel, however, when we come to
Proceedings, Vol. XXI., p. 62. 2
Ibid., p. 75.
296 Professor A. G. Pigou. [part
more complicated cases, that this roundabout method of
approach is the best. The question of intention is a
secondary one. A more satisfactory method, as it seems to
me, is to leave it aside altogether and to ask quite directly
" Do the complementary correspondences, the authorship of
which is now under investigation, differ in any marked
degree from other complementary correspondences that we
have grounds for attributing to subliminal agency ?
" This is
all that we need : for, if the answer is in the negative, we
know, without delving behind the facts for explaining intentions,,
that the phenomena we are studying fall within the capacity
of subliminal agents, and, therefore, on the principles here
adopted, are probably due to them.
In order to a perfect application of this test, two con-
ditions would be necessary, one of which, from the nature of the
case, cannot be attained, while the other has not, as a matter
of fact, been attained hitherto. The first condition is that we
should know for certain that no discarnate intelligence had
a hand in those complementary correspondences which we
attribute to subliminal agency and use as a standard of com-
parison for the others. Now, it is evident that we can never
know this for certain. In the case, to which I shall allude
presently, in which Dr. Verrall endeavoured to impress three-
Greek words upon Mrs. Verrall's script, it is jwssiMe that the
discarnate intelligence of Dr. A. T. Myers took part in the
experiment, and that, but for his co-operation, the complement-
ariness that occurred between the different scripts would not
have come about. This is, no doubt, possible. I do not,
however, attach much importance to such suggestions. We
know that Dr. Verrall's subliminal consciousness and Mrs..
Verrall's subliminal consciousness were agents ; we have no
evidential ground for believing that Dr. Myers was an agent
at all, or that, if an agent, he was likely to be responsible
for the complementary element in the scripts. I hold, there-
fore, that, on the evidence, the complementariness that emerged
should be assigned, with a high measure of probability, to the
action of the incarnate subliminal intelligences which we know
to have been at work, and that the bare possibility of co-
operation " from the other side " is not of material significance.
The second condition required to make our test perfect is
lviil] Psychical Research and Survival. 297
that the coroplementariness which we have grounds for attri-
buting to subliminal action should occur between the scripts
of different automatists. If we had cases in which someone
attempted to impress the same idea upon several different
writers, the records of such cases would constitute an excellent
standard with which to compare those complementary corre-
spondences that claim to flow from a discarnate mind. Un-
fortunately, however, though experiments of this kind no doubt
will be, they have not yet been, made. The best case that
is available for our purpose is one in which the complement-
ariness which occurs is between different scripts of the same-
automatist. I grant that the use of this case leaves room for
the reply that the essential peculiarity of the Holland-Piper-
Verrall cross-correspondences is just the fact that it is between
the scripts of different automatists that complementariness occurs.
Such a reply, however, seems unsound. If the subliminal con-
sciousness can produce complementariness between the different
scripts of one automatist, that seems to me to give strong
ground for holding that it can produce at least an equal
measure of complementariness between the scripts of different
automatists. Indeed, if the complementariness arises in any
measure out of a succession of attempts, that fall short of
success in different ways, to bring some single idea to the
surface, we should expect a 'priori somewhat greater diversity
and more recondite complementariness when the attempts are
made through several persons of different characteristics and
environment than when they are made through one person
only. Hence, though experiments with several automatists of
the kind suggested above are much to be desired, it would
seem that, meanwhile, the use, as a standard of comparison,,
of Dr. Verrall's experiment with one automatist is thoroughly
well warranted. In short, the absence of the two conditions
that I showed to be required in order to make our test perfect
does not prevent that test from being very good.
,
§15. This then is the test proposed. In Mrs. Verrall's paper
upon her own automatic writing, published in October, 1906,
there is an account of an attempt made by Dr. Verrall to
transfer telepathically to her automatic script the three Greek
words fxovoirwkov k aw, " to the one-horse dawn," a phrase
connected with an incident of his undergraduate clays about,
298 '
Professor A. 0. Pigou. [part
thirty years before. 1
The result of this experiment is traced
by Mrs. Verrall in her script for six months following. We
thus have a series of attempts—or, at least, it is extremely
probable that we have—by the subliminal self of one or both of
the persons concerned to reproduce a single definite idea in
the script of one automatist. The test which I propose to
apply to Mr. Piddington's and Miss Johnson's records is to
see whether the degree of complementariness in the corre-
spondences found in them is in any decided way more striking
than that which appears in the different efforts of Mrs.
Verrall's script to produce Dr. Verrall's words. If there is
no decided difference it seems to me that the Holland- Piper-
Verrall cross-correspondences are also probably the result of
subliminal activities. I will first set out two cases of cross-
correspondences from Miss Johnson's and Mr. Piddington's
records, and will then make an analysis, on the same plan as
theirs, of Mrs. Verrall's attempts at Dr. Verrall's Greek words.
The first case I shall take is that called in the records Ave
Roma Immortalis. The reason I take it is that Miss Johnson
writes in regard to it
"
' Ave Eoma Immortalis ' is the clearest
case of what I regard as a typical cross-correspondence."
2
The case is quite simple. There is a picture in the Stanza
d'Eliodoro in the Vatican which Miss Johnson describes as
follows :
" The picture is the well-known one in the Stanza
d'Eliodoro in the Vatican. The Pope sits on a white palfrey,
a cross-bearer riding on his left and cardinals on his right.
Attila on a black horse is in the middle of the picture, with
a standard-bearer in the background on his right and a group
of mounted Huns beyond. St. Peter and St. Paul are
descending from the sky, both bearing swords, and St. Peter also
holding a large key or keys in his left hand. In the back-
ground is seen the city of Home, with the Coliseum and
aqueducts." 3
The following passages occur in Mrs. Verrall's script
March 2 :
" Primus inter pares ipse non nominis immemor.
Cum eo frater etsi non sanguine animo consanouineus."
(First among his peers, himself not unmindful of his name
with him a brother related in feeling, though not in blood.)
1
Proceedings, Vol. XX., p. 156. -Proceedings, Vol. XXI., p. 387.
3
Proceedings, Vol. XXI., p. 299.
LVIII.] Psychical Research and Survival. 299
March 4 :
" Pagan and Pope and Reformer all enemies as
you think."
In Mrs. Holland's script of March 7 there occurs
" Ave Eoma immortalis. How could I make it any clearer
without giving her the clue ?
" 1
There are other details, but the above quotations give the
essence of the process. This is well described by Miss Johnson
in her comment. " A number of details of the picture, cmite
unintelligible to herself, were given by Mrs. Verrall, while a
single other important detail, clinching the whole matter, was
given by Mrs. Holland, accompanied by a remark implying
that Mrs. Verrall had been purposely kept in the dark." 2
I shall now set out a case from Mr. Piddington's records.
The one I select is that dealing with Abt Vogler. I choose
it because, since it has been summarised by Mrs. Verrall, I
can use her words and need not make a summary of my
own. She writes
In the case of "Abt Vogler" we have a cross-correspondence of
the complex type desired. The dates here are important. On
January 2nd the delivery of the "Latin Message" was complete.
On January 16th Mr. Piddington spoke to the Piper controls of the
importance of cross-correspondences, and suggested the drawing of a
triangle within a circle to show that a script formed part of a cross-
correspondence. On January 23rd and 28th my script contained
allusions to Hope, Star and Browning's Abt Vogler, and on February
3rd and 17th Miss Verrall's script alluded to star and Browning.
On February 11th, before the completion of Miss Verrall's allusion,
but after its beginning, the Piper controls announced as a cross-
correspondence "Browning, Hope and Star," and on March 6th and
thenceforward persistently they claimed that this particular cross-
correspondence was " an answer to the Latin Message " ; in other-
words, a cross-correspondence of the complex type.
Is this claim justified 1 Is something discoverable by putting the
statements together that is not discoverable from any single one
of them 1 I think this is so. Mrs. Piper describes the cross-
1
Proceedings, Vol. XXI., pp. 295-8. Primus inter pares is appropriate to the
Pope. If we take the Pope as St. Peter, the brother in feeling might well be
St. Paul. Pagan and Pope is appropriate to Attila and the Pope (cf. Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XXI., p. 300.)
2
Op. cit., p. 387.
300 Professor A. C. Pigou. [part
correspondence as " Browning Hope and Star." Hope appears in my
script as a mis-quotation in a line of Alt Vogler, but does not appear
in the poem at all. Browning and Star appear in both my script
and my daughter's. The emphasis in my script among Browning's
poems is plainly on AM Vogler, but there is no indication in my
script as to which, if either, of the lines in that poem which refer
to a star underlies the general thought. The lines are :
Stanza IV.
" Not a point nor peak but found and fixed its wandering star."
Stanza VII.
"That out of three sounds he frame not a fourth sound but a star."
But, given that one of these two lines is to be indicated, Miss
Verrall's script settles the point beyond dispute. The star is " the
sign "
; there is " heavenly harmony," " the diapason," " the mystic
three," " above it all is the star." Thus, while my script
determines the poem, my daughter's script determines the line.
But her script alone does not determine the poem. It is only
by combining her script with mine, and by interpreting them
on the lines suggested by the three words of the Piper controls,
that we see the point of this complex cross-correspondence, and find
that the whole is something more than the sum of the parts. 1
§ 1 6. I shall now analyse Mrs. Verrall's different attempts
at Dr. Verrall's Greek words on a plan similar to the preceding.
My point is to show that between these different attempts
there is exactly the same kind of complementariness as between
the different correspondences in the Piper case ; that the
isolated passages make no sense separately, but have meaning
when properly combined. The words aimed at, it will be
remembered, are /j.ov6-jtw\ov e$ aw, meaning either " to the one-
horse car of dawn " or, as Dr. Verrall thinks may be the
case, " to the solitary dawn." They are contained in a passage
from Euripides set for the Classical Tripos in 1873 when Dr.
Verrall was a candidate. In April, 1901, Dr. Verrall wrote
them down with a view to seeing whether they would appear
in Mrs. Verrall's script. I now give the chief relevant passages.
Mrs. Verrall wrote as follows
July 4 : Yellow is the colour of the dawn.
1
Journal S.P.R., January, 1909, pp. 29-30.
LVIII.] Psychical Research and Survival. 301
Sept. 2 : Two syllables es to (following what seems like an attempt
at es on Aug. 9).
Sept. 11 : fj.ovos /zera Oeov ovSe a\Xov Tti'os.
(alone with God, and none other).
Sept. 18 : «s t--os (one horse).
Now, if we suppose these four passages to have occurred in
the writings of separate automatists, we have all the conditions
of a typical cross-correspondence. Separately they have no
meaning, but properly fitted together, they combine into the
full meaning of Dr. Verrali's words. This, however, is not all.
On August 20, Mrs. Verrall wrote: "The long room with
the many windows is near this hot room, he was outside." On
Sept. 20: "There were others there, but he knew more than
the rest." Here we have a further elaboration. Dr. Verrali's
Greek words formed the subject of a conversation between him,
Dr. A. T. Myers, and others on the steps of the Senate House
after the examination. The two sentences in combination give
the idea, wholly veiled in either of them singly, of a group
on the steps of the Senate House, of whom Dr. Verrall " knew
more than the rest." When they are combined, further, with
the words already quoted we have this group identified with
the party that discussed there the problem of the " one-horse
dawn." I have kept for the last one passage of that recondite
allusive type to which Mr. Piddington, in discussing his cross-
correspondences, attributes especial importance. On Sept. 9,
Mrs. Verrall wrote :
" Find the herb moly, that will help—it
is a clue." The bearing of this passage has most fortunately
been discovered by the care and ingenuity of Mrs. Verrall.
I cpiote her words: "In the spring of 1905, when I was
writing this paper, and had ascertained that the passage of
the Orestes was set in the last paper of the Classical Tripos
of 1873, it occurred to me to look at the other papers set in
that year, and I found that the subject for Latin Hexameters
in the Tripos of 1873 was the passage from Coimis ending
"And yet more med'cinal is it than that moly
Which Hermes once to wise Ulysses gave." 1
Could anything be more typical than this of the general
manner of the cases recorded in Mr. Piddington's paper ?
1
Proceedings, Vol. XX., p. 163 and pp. 3S7-90.
302 Professor A. G. Pigou. [part
How effective it would have been if the allusion had been
discovered in Mrs. Holland's script after, say, Mrs. Piper's
had given the sentence about the room with many windows
and Mrs. Verrall's /j-ovottooXov h aw ! All the characteristics
of the best cross-correspondences seem to me to be produced
in this experiment. Since, therefore, there are strong grounds
for believing that the agent here was the subliminal conscious-
ness of Mr. or of Mrs. Verrall, or of both together, there are
also strong grounds for believing that the manufacture of
cross-correspondences of the required type falls within the
compass of incarnate mind. In view of this fact I conclude
that the occurrence of these correspondences in other cases
does not make probable the operation of any discarnate mind.
§17. This conclusion, of course, deprives of the greater
part of its interest the third question which I distinguished
at the beginning ; if the cause of the correspondences is some
discarnate mind, how probable is it that it is the mind of
that deceased person with whom it claims to be identical.
My answer to this question would be that the general practice
of living men and women makes probable the proposition that
a person announcing himself as Mr. A. really is that person.
Since we have no ground for believing that discarnate intelli-
gences are more likely than incarnate to adopt aliases, I,
therefore, conclude that, if the personality acting through
Mrs. Piper and purporting to be Frederic Myers is a dis-
carnate intelligence at all, he probably is Frederic Myers. As
I have said, however, the evidence seems to me to make it
probable that this personality is not a discarnate intelligence,
but is a product of the subliminal activity of some living
person.
8 1 8. This conclusion, it should be remembered, refers
exclusively to the evidence of the cross-correspondences that
have so far been recorded. The evidence that consists in
what Mr. Dickinson calls the vraisemblance of the impersona-
tions of Mrs. Piper's various controls has not been considered.
Its value cannot, I think, easily be estimated except by intimate
friends of the alleged controls who are prepared both to under-
take a large number of sittings with Mrs. Piper, and also to
study known cases of fictitious impersonations by secondary per-
sonalities. What the result of that kind of investigation will
LVIII.] Psychical Research and Survival. 303
be I do not venture to forecast. It may be that the manu-
facture of vraisemblanccs of the type that has been obtained
will not be found to fall within those powers that we have
evidence for assigning to the subliminal self. It may be,
again, that new cross-correspondences will be recorded in the
future that do not fall within those powers. If either of
these things happens, we shall be confronted with a problem
in the logic of probability the solution of which is not likely
to be easily found.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LIX.
November, 1909.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETING.
The 134th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Queen's (Small) Hall, Langharn Place, London, W., on Friday,
June 18th, 1909, at 3.30 p.m.; Sir Oliver Lodge in the
chair.
The Hon. Everard Feilding read a paper on " Some Sittings
with Eusapia Palladino," the full report of which sittings is
printed below.
u
306 Introductory Note to the [part
INTRODUCTORY NOTE TO THE " REPORT ON SITTINGS
WITH EUSAPIA PALLADINO."
The following paper contains an account by Mr. Eeilding,
Mr. Baggally and Mr. Herewarcl Carrington 1
of the results
of their investigations at Naples of the well-known medium
Eusapia Palladino. It seems necessary to introduce it with
some explanation of the reasons which have induced the Council
of the Society for Psychical Research to depart in this instance
from its usual practice of not concerning itself with mediums
who have been detected in trickery of a seemingly deliberate
character, and have led it to send the three above-named
gentlemen—all experienced investigators well acquainted with
tricks practised at seances—to Naples to hold sittings with
Eusapia. This explanation is the more needed as it is by no
means the intention of the Council to change its general practice.
The reasons against employing fraudulent mediums are very
obvious. It encourages a mischievous trade, the existence of
which stands in the way of scientific investigation. If it is
true, as alleged, that in the presence of specially endowed
persons movements of objects and other physical phenomena
are produced by forces unknown to science, it is of course
possible and even probable that these forces may sometimes
be manifested in the case of persons who are ready to simulate
them when it suits their convenience to do so. Proved trickery
does not exclude the possibility of genuine phenomena even
in connexion with the trickster. But it reduces the value
of evidence obtained through such a medium, since even if
a competent investigator convinces himself that he has not
been deceived by any conjurer's arts, it is difficult for him to
produce the same conviction in others. Moreover, the prevalence
1
Author of The Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, a book giving a useful
account of trick methods.
Lix.] " Report on Sittings ivith Eusapia Palladino." 307
of proved trickery tends to discredit the whole subject and to
deter honest persons who think they may have these special
powers from lending themselves to investigation. And further,
it tends to foster a belief, likely to fulfil itself through
suggestion, that conditions which are favourable to fraud are
those favourable to phenomena.
It is therefore of the utmost importance, in the interests
of Psychical Eesearch, that fraudulent mediumship should be
strongly discouraged by making it clear that trickery leads
to loss of employment. So long as the fees of investigators
and of convinced spiritualists flow with unabated abundance
into the pockets of mediums who have been detected in
deliberate trickery, this trickery will also remain unabated.
It is for these reasons that those guiding the affairs of the
Society for Psychical Eesearch have as a rule abstained from
employing mediums known to have resorted to deliberate
trickery, and they believe that in this they have the approval
of most of the members of the Society.
In the case of Eusapia Palladino, however, another considera-
tion comes in, and has led the Council to decide that it would
be advisable that some persons specially practised in the
investigation of mediumistic physical phenomena, and who had
themselves detected trickery in other cases, should carry out
an investigation with her on behalf of the Society. When
in 1894 and 1895 certain members of the Society had sittings
with her privately, first at the ile Eoubaud and at Carqueiranne
by invitation of Professor Eichet, and afterwards at Cambridge,
Eusapia had already been detected in what might legitimately
be called fraud, though there was room for supposing that it
might be occasional only. The Cambridge sittings proved, in
the opinion of the sitters, that the deceptive methods adopted
by her indicated skill and practice on her part, and at these
sittings she also showed unwillingness to experiment under
conditions dispensing with the need of continuous observation.
Accordingly the investigation was dropped. On the other hand,
however, those engaged in Psychical Eesearch abroad have
continued their investigations, and Eusapia has been observed
by probably a larger number of scientific men than any other
medium, and can produce a larger number of witnesses whose
opinion would carry weight in other subjects, who have been
308 Introductory Note. [part
convinced that unknown forces do in certain cases operate
in her presence. Some of the recorded phenomena, moreover,
cannot be explained by her detected methods of trickery. In
particular Sir Oliver Lodge has always strongly adhered to
his view that this is true of some of the phenomena observed
by him at the ile Eoubaud, and that, further, these were not
the result of any trick. (The record of his investigations
was printed at the time in the Journal S.P.E., Vol. VI.,
pp. 306-336, and 346-347.) In these circumstances the
Council came to the conclusion that as we do not maintain an
obstinate attitude of incredulity, we should again make an
attempt to collect material with a view to forming an independent
judgment on the phenomena Eusapia presents. The results
will be found in the following account of the seances recently
held at Naples.
Signed on behalf of the Council,
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick
(President).
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Introduction. 309
REPORT ON A SERIES OF SITTINGS WITH EUSAPIA
PALLADINO.
By the Hon. Eveeaed Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and
Heeewaed Cabeington.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
PAGE
I. Introduction
Preliminary -- ----310
Historical - - 311
Object of the Present Investigation - - - - - 318
The Investigating Committee - - - 319
II. General Account of the Sittings
The Seance Eoom - - 321
Conduct of the Seances - - 323
The Control - - 325
The Phenomena - - - 328
Conclusions - - ... 34Q,
III. Detailed Report
Measurements - - - - 315
Seance I. - 346
„ II. - - - - 358
„ III. - - -
375
„ IV. - ... .... 399
„ V - 418
„ VI. - - - - - - - - - - 410
„ VII. - - 463
„ VIII. ..... - - 484
„ IX. - - - - - ... 505
The Bell Incident - - - 525
Seance X. ----- - - - - 527
„ XI. - .... ... 536
310 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
PAGE
IV. Individual Conclusions of the Investigators
Final Note by Hereward Carrington - - 555
W. W. Baggally - - - 556
„ the Hon. Everard Feilding - 566
I.
INTRODUCTION.
Preliminary.
Of all the problems with which psychical research is con-
fronted there is none upon which opinion still remains more
hopelessly divided,—not only among students of the reports of
other people, but among actual experimenters themselves,—than on
that of the reality or otherwise of what are now known as the
"physical phenomena of spiritualism." In all times, and from all
countries, phenomena of this class are recorded, from the days
of Aaron's rod to those of the Rochester rappings, when this
era of modern systematised spiritualism was inaugurated ;
since which the world has been flooded with claimants to
every kind of unorthodox power over physical nature, which
they are willing to display to all comers in return for a very
moderate consideration. It may seem a remarkable thing that
with all the wealth of opportunity for investigation that
appears ready at hand no final answer to the question of
what these pretensions amount to should yet have been
reached.
It is understating the case to say that the vast majority
of these modern wizards and witches are the merest charla-
tans—sometimes, indeed, using mechanical and scientific apparatus
of extreme ingenuity,1
but as a rule relying merely upon the
simplest devices, with an insolent confidence in the avid
simplicity of their dupes. Yet every now and then a person-
ality arises whose claims to something beyond such manifest
1
A good notion of the dimensions to which this conspiracy of fraud has
attained in America can be obtained from David P. Abbott's Behind the Scenes
with the Mediums (London : Kegan Paul) and H. Carrington's Physical Pheno-
mena of Spiritualism (London : Werner Laurie).
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Introduction. 311
imposture it has seemed impossible to dismiss thus curtly.
Of such it would be possible to compile a fairly formidable
list, but for present purposes it is sufficient to mention but
two, D. D. Home and Eusapia Palladino, concerning whom a
mass of material exists from authorities of competence and
integrity, of such a kind as to place their case in a wholly
different category. It may almost be said that by the
evidence for the possession of supernormal faculty by these
two persons, the whole controversy regarding the existence of
some hitherto unascertained and unrecognised force affecting
matter and apparently operating, whether directly or indirectly,
through the organism of particular individuals, must be decided.
If ultimately the evidence for its display by these " mediums
"
be judged invalid, there remains little to be said for the less
well-attested claims of any others. If, on the other hand, the
existence of a telekinetic force in them can be proved beyond
reasonable doubt, a great impulse towards credibility is given
to a number of historical phenomena which have hitherto
failed to achieve it, less on account of the weight of evidence
by which they were supported than of the inherent improba-
bility of their occurrence. D. D. Home has passed away, a
lasting marvel to those who witnessed the events of his
career, and a still unsolved mystery to those who are familiar
with them through the records only. Eusapia Palladino is,
however, still active, and, owing to an increasing interest among
men of science on the Continent in the strange phenomena
alleged to take place in her presence, may be said to have
reached the zenith of her fame.
Historical.
Without attempting a complete history of this remarkable
woman, it may be useful to give a short outline of the events
which have made her so interesting a figure in the discussion
of this obscure question.
Eusapia was the daughter of a peasant, and was born in
1854 in the province of Bari. Her education was of the
poorest, and even now she is unable to read, or to write more
than her own name. According to her own account, her
father having been killed by brigands, she was, after certain
312 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
vicissitudes, taken in a menial position into a family given
to spiritualistic practices. Being called one day to make up the
circle at a seance, certain new and surprising manifestations
took place, and she was pronounced to he herself a " medium."
She states that for many years she was merely frightened by
these occurrences and sought to evade the importunity of
people who constantly tried to induce her to attend seances.
She eventually made the acquaintance of Cavaliere Ercole
Chiaja of Naples, who, partly overcoming her prejudices, per-
suaded her to develop her " power." It was through this
gentleman that Eusapia owed her first introduction to the
scientific world, by the publication in 1888 of an open letter
to Professor Lombroso stating that the writer had become
convinced that certain phenomena took place in her presence
contrary to all natural physical law, and inviting Lombroso to
investigate the case for himself. Lombroso did so three years later,
with the result that he was convinced of the non -fraudulent
character of the phenomena. Professor Tamburini, however,
who was associated with him in the experiments, did not
consider that the evidence was sufficient to give conclusive
proof of the production or transmission of force in modes
other than those known to science, though he apparently
admitted that it pointed strongly in that direction, and was
prepared to grant the possibility, or even the probability, of
Lombroso's view that cerebral movements might be transmitted
by means of the ether to surrounding objects, and act upon
them as force, without the intervention of muscular action
(Lombroso, Annales des Sciences Psychiques, 1891, p. 326, and
1892, p. 143; Tamburini, Spiritismo e telepatia, reviewed in
Proceedings S.P.E., Vol. IX., p. 224;.
Lombroso's confession of faith had the effect of inducing
another group of scientific men to undertake fresh experi-
ments, and 17 sittings were held in 1892 in Milan by a
committee consisting of Professor Schiaparelli, Director of the
Astronomical Observatory of Milan ; Professor Eichet, Professor
of Physiology in Paris ; Carl du Prel, D.Ph. of Munich ;
Angelo
Brofferio, Professor of Philosophy ;
three physicists, Professor
Gerosa and Drs. Ermacora and Finzi, and M. Aksakoff, the
well-known spiritualist (see Annates des Sciences Psychiques, 1893,
pp. 39-64). The phenomena were of the kind that have since
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Introduction. 313
been so frequently described in connection with Eusapia ; in
full light, levitations of the table, movements of objects, and
the alteration by as much as 21 lbs. of the medium's weight
in a balance ; and in darkness or semi-darkness, the appear-
ance and contact of hands, etc. The Committee, with some
reserve as to the frequently unsatisfactory nature of the holding
of Eusapia's hands, came to the conclusion that none of the
phenomena which were obtained in good light could have
been produced by trickery, and that this was equally true of
many of the others.
Eeferring to the appearance of a hand, they say, " It is im-
possible to count the number of times that that hand appeared
and was touched by one of us ; suffice it to say that doubt
was no longer possible ; it was, indeed, a living human hand
which we saw and touched, while at the same time the bust
and arms of the medium remained visible and her hands were
held by those on either side of her."
Professor Eichet did not sign the report, but preferred to
issue a more cautious one of his own (Annalcs des Sciences
PsycMqioes, 1893, pp. 1-31). He points out various unsatis-
factory features of the control of the medium's hands, as well
as the inconclusive nature of the experiments in the reduction
of her weight. In regard to the hands that were seen and felt,
he thinks that the only normal explanation of them (the hypothesis
of an accomplice being apparently out of the question) was that
Eusapia got one of her hands free, and he discusses in detail
the way in which this might have been done by substitution.
He gives, however, cases where substitution seems impossible,
and says that they never detected it. M. Eichet states his
own conclusion as follows :
" Absurd and unsatisfactory though
they were, it seems to me very difficult to attribute the
phenomena produced to deception, conscious or unconscious, or
to a series of deceptions. Nevertheless, conclusive and indis-
putable proof that there was no fraud on Eusapia's part, or
illusion on our part, is wanting. We must therefore renew our
efforts to obtain such proof."
1
A series of 40 sittings were held in Warsaw by Dr. Ochorowicz
in 1893-1894, the reports of which were published in the
1
A full discussion by Mr. Podmore of these Milan experiments will be found
in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. IX., p. 218.
314 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
Polish newspapers and are summarised by de Krauz in the
Revue de VHypnotismc, July-December, 1894. There were
considerable differences of opinion as to the results among those
who took part in the sittings. Out of twenty-three experi-
menters, ten, including Ochorowicz himself, were convinced of
the supernormal character of the phenomena ;
seven, while
expressing certain doubts as to the honesty of the medium and
the method of experimentation, thought they could not all be
due to an ordinary mechanical agency. Two, on the other
hand, were inclined, with certain reservations, to deny the
supernormal character of the manifestations, and three attributed
them all to fraud. One declined to express any opinion
at all, being dissatisfied with the method of experimentation.
While certain observations of Dr. Eeichmann, one of the three
who denied the genuineness of any of the phenomena, irre-
sistibly point to fraud on certain occasions ; on certain others
the correctness of his observation is strongly disputed by Dr.
Ochorowicz. It appears that Dr. Eeichmann detected, among
other more occasional tricks, the substitution of hands or feet
which afterwards played so prominent a part in the Cambridge
experiments, as will be noticed later.
In 1894 Sir Oliver Lodge and Mr. Myers, on Professor
Eichet's invitation, took part in four sittings at the ile Eoubaud
in the Mediterranean ; Sir Oliver Lodge being given control of
the seance room. A few weeks later, Professor and Mrs.
Sidgwick, also as Professor Eichet's guests, assisted at eight
sittings, at six of which Sir Oliver Lodge was again present.
A full report by him of the first series is printed in the
Journal S.P.E., Vol. VI. (pp. 306-336 and 346-7). Sir
Oliver Lodge and Mr. Myers were convinced by these sittings
of the supernormal character of some of the phenomena
and Professor and Mrs. Sidgwick, who did not witness the
phenomena that most impressed Sir Oliver Lodge, expressed the
opinion that if the medium's hands were, as they appeared
to be, adequately controlled, there seemed no way of accounting
for the phenomena except by supernormal means. At these
sittings, some of which were held in darkness too great to
admit of the hands being seen, no fraud was actually
discovered.
In the Journal S.P.E. for March-April, 1895, Vol. VII.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Introduction. 315
(pp. 36-55), there appeared an analysis and criticism of Sir
Oliver Lodge's report by Dr. Hodgson, who complained that a
number of important points, chiefly relative to the conditions of
control and, in particular, to the way the hands and feet of
Eusapia were held, were omitted from the report, leaving the
door open for various suppositions as to the way in which
the phenomena might have been produced by normal means.
As a result of this criticism it was felt that further experiment
was necessary, and in the summer of 1S95 Eusapia came to
Cambridge, where she gave a series of twenty-one sittings.
Very early in the sittings suspicious circumstances were
observed, especially in regard to the limitations imposed by
Eusapia on the 'holding of her hands and feet, and the coin-
cidence of the phenomena with the moment of least satisfactory
holding. What was still more suspicious was the precautions
apparently adopted by Eusapia to avoid any detection of fraud.
She would not allow the sitters to feel about in the darkness
with their hands, and any " grabbing" of the supposed material-
ised hand that performed the touches or movements of objects
was strictly forbidden. After vainly attempting through the
greater part of the sittings to obtain genuine phenomena under
unimpeachable conditions, the investigators were obliged to
turn their attention to ascertaining exactly what methods of
fraud were used. Dr. Hodgson had been invited over from
America to attend these sittings, and his observations, with
those of other sitters, ended in convincing all those who had
any prolonged experience of the sittings that the substitution
of hands and feet described by Prof. Eichet as possible, and
already detected by Dr. Eeichmann, constantly occurred and
could be observed if attention was directed to it. At the end
of the series, the investigators responsible for conducting it
unanimously arrived at the conclusion that systematic fraud, of
a kind that must have required long practice, had been used
in many cases and was to be inferred in others, and that there
was no adecpuate reason for concluding in favour of any super-
normal agency having been at work during the course of the
sittings. (See Journal S.P.E., Vol. VII., pp. 131-5, and 14S-159.)
None of the present writers had the advantage of being-
present at these Cambridge sittings, which appear to have
differed markedly in certain respects from those which form the
316 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Cdrrington. [part
subject of the present report. The chief points of difference
lie in the condition of light and in the degree of control of
her hands permitted by Eusapia. For the most part the seances
appear to have taken place either in complete darkness or in
light so poor as not to ensure the visibility of the medium's hands,
while she seems never to have allowed her hands to be properly
held. This, as will be seen later, also occurred at some of the
Naples sittings, and our experience was that the sense of
touch was so little to be trusted on the occasions when Eusapia
refused to allow the complete control of her hands, that observation
depending on it alone is quite useless. Had our own sittings
been conducted throughout in these conditions it is quite
certain that we should have felt ourselves unable to come to
the conclusions at which in fact we arrived.
The net result of the Cambridge experiments was not to
show any hitherto unsuspected method of trickery, but to
show that certain already discovered methods, substitution of
hands or feet in the dark, were far more frequently resorted,
to than the Continental observers had up to then ascertained.
The Cambridge series is, we believe, the only published
negative series in the experience of Eusapia, though we have
knowledge of at least one other series of 14 or 15 sittings
in which the fraudulent devices already mentioned played an
extremely prominent role. It should, however, be added that
in these sittings, as in a certain proportion of those at Cam-
bridge, opportunities for cheating were, for experimental purposes,
deliberately given, of which the medium took suitable advantage.
It would be wearisome to attempt to review all the series
of experiments undergone by Eusapia since the issue of the
Cambridge report. The bibliography of the reports and dis-
cussions on her rnediumship which have appeared between
1895 and 1907 cover 29 pages in Prof. Morselli's recent
book. She had been dropped by this Society as a fraudulent
medium, notwithstanding the fact that there appeared to be a
few phenomena, even in the Cambridge sittings, for which the
ascertained fraud could not account, to say nothing of the
previous observations by Sir Oliver Lodge at the ile Roubaud,
and by numbers of other qualified experimenters. Continental
observers were by no means satisfied that the Cambridge
report could cover the whole ground of Eusapia's case, and
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Introduction. 317
they renewed their investigations with increased energy. As a
result, the opinion of practically all the scientific men and
others (apart from the Cambridge investigators) who have given
any attention by personal experiment to the subject, is that,
after making every allowance for such fraud as she may occa-
sionally permit herself to indulge in, Eusapia is nevertheless
possessed of faculties of some supernormal kind. The most
important contributions to the study of the case are perhaps
M. Camille Flainmarion's Les forces naturelles inconnues, in which,
as part of a general discussion of alleged supernormal pheno-
mena, an elaborate description of Eusapia's case is contained ;
the large work, in two volumes, Psicologia c Spiritismo, by
Enrico Morselli, Professor of Pathology in the University of
Genoa (reviewed in Proceedings S.P.E., Vol. XXL, pp. 516-25); the
report by M. Courtier, issued by the Institut Gtniral Psychologique
of Paris as the result of experiments extending over three
years, and attended, among others, by Professor and Madame
Curie, M. d'Arsonval, M. Henri Bergson, M. Ballet, M. Char-
pentier, M. Eichet, M. Branly, and M. de Yourievitch ; and the
report by Professor Bottazzi, Professor of Physiology in the
University of Naples, of a series of sittings held in 1907 by
himself and Professors Galeotti, de Amicis, Scarpa, Pansini,
and Cardarelli, of which a risumS will be found in the Annalcs
cles Sciences Psychiques, August-November, 1907.
Professor Morselli announces his belief in the possession by
Eusapia of some supernormal power without any reserve what-
ever. In an article in the Annates des Sciences Psychiques,
April, 1907, after stating that for many years his state of mind
regarding the existence of these phenomena was to believe that
those who asserted that they were genuine were either deluded
by gross fraud or were the victims of hallucination or of
illusions of judgment, he says that he has now changed his
belief: " I write with full consciousness of bein« in the risfht . . .
that the phenomena of physical mediumship attributed to
Eusapia are in the great majority of cases real, authentic,
genuine ; that in the now innumerable series of her '
spiritistic
manifestations there may be an admixture of some spurious
phenomena, sometimes also naive and puerile attempts at decep-
tion on her part, and illusions or errors of appreciation on the
part of the sitters ; but on the whole the phenomena produced
318 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
by Eusapia have for a calm scientist, an impartial observer, a
competent student of psychology, an objective existence and a
positive consistency equal to those attained by categories of
facts judged by ordinary reasoning, and verified and accepted
in accordance with the rules of the experimental method."
The report of the Institut Gine'ral Psychologique is more
cautious, and no positive conclusions are attempted. They
mention the practice of certain frauds, saying that it is difficult
to indicate exactly the extent of them, and point out that of
course such frauds, adequately proved, tend to throw suspicion
upon everything. They state that the objectivity, at all events,
of the phenomena has been proved by self-registering instru-
ments ; that movements and liftings of objects appear to take
place by simple contact with the hands or the dress of the
medium, and also without contact; that although muscular
contractions on the part of the medium take place at the time
of such movements, no direct mechanical action upon the object
so moved was observed ; that in the neighbourhood of the medium
luminous phenomena were observed of which the character was
undetermined : that forms of human appearance were seen and
sensations of contact felt, in the production of some of which,
however, fraud was ascertained, and that apparently the medium
can from a distance discharge an electroscope and produce in
objects molecular vibrations (raps and other sounds).1
The report of Prof. Bottazzi " Dans Us regions inexplorSes de
la biologic hitmaine " in the Annalcs referred to above is of an
absolutely positive character. It is lively reading, and, granting
that the phenomena are genuine, is of much interest as a descrip-
tion of Eusapia's seances, and of the results attending the use
of various scientific apparatus. But as the dull details of the
actual control existing are not insisted on, it is of little help
as a solution of the problem whether the phenomena in them-
selves were or were not fraudulent.
Object of the Present Investigation.
In the face of all these reports from scientific men of
high standing and accustomed to experimental research, which,
i A full discussion of this report will be found in Count Solovovo's review
below.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Introduction. 319
whether wholly favourable or not, at all events suggested
that the case of Eusapia could not be lightly dismissed with
the explanation that all the phenomena occurring in her presence
were due to common fraud, it seemed desirable that this
Society, one of whose objects is to investigate physical phenomena,
should not maintain its attitude of aloofness on the mere ground
that Eusapia was, on certain occasions, detected in trickery,
and the Council accordingly, after some consideration, deter-
mined to reopen the case. A statement of their attitude in the
matter is contained in the Note which prefaces the present
Eeport.
Count Solovovo, in his review printed below, criticises the Paris
report on the ground that while it proves the objectivity of the
phenomena, sufficient regard was not paid to proving their
authenticity. The phenomena themselves are elaborately described,
but not the exact conditions under which they occurred. With
certain exceptions, the same criticism may, indeed, be made of
most of the reports which have hitherto appeared. The experi-
menters have been more solicitous of stating their conclusions
than of assisting readers to form conclusions for themselves.
We decided, therefore, to furnish as complete a record as
possible of the conduct of our seances, and while it is true that a
report consisting mainly, as does the present, of mere details of
hand-holding, foot-holding, and conditions of light, is intolerably
wearisome and unreadable, a report of this kind is necessary for
those who are prepared to take the trouble of following at least
a part of it with attention, if anything more than the mere ipse
dixit of an observer as to the adequacy of the control is to be
provided.
The Investigating Committee.
As regards the personnel of the Committee appointed by
the Council to undertake the investigation, it was felt that as the
object of it was merely to attempt to determine whether the
phenomena were due to trickery or not, the assistance of
persons well versed in the available methods of trickery should
be invoked.
Mr. Carrington has been for some time the investigator for
the American Society for Psychical Research, and is the author
320 E. Feilcling, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
of a book, The Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism (London
Werner Laurie), in which is a detailed exposure of the tricks
employed by fraudulent mediums, of which he has made a
special study. For many years Mr. Garrington has been an
amateur conjurer, and is able to reproduce almost any of the
slate writing and other "tests" offered by the average "medium."
In the course of his work for the American Society he has
investigated many cases . of poltergeists, physical phenomena,
etc., etc., and in all the ten years of such work had never
seen anything that he was unable to account for by trickery,
which in many cases he could improve upon.
Mr. Baggally has similarly been for many years an investi-
gator of the phenomena of spiritualism and has been
specially interested in the physical phenomena. He, also, is
an amateur conjurer of much experience. Notwithstanding the
fact that he had investigated nearly all the mediums who
have appeared upon the spiritualist horizon since the days of
D. D. Home, he, like Mr. Garrington, had never yet met with
what appeared to him a genuine example of any agency
other than that of more or less easily discoverable trickery, and
before the experiments with Eusapia, had come to an entirely
negative conclusion as to the probability of any genuine physical
phenomena.
Mr. Leilding, though not himself a conjurer, had had a
reasonably extensive experience in the investigation of physical
phenomena and the advantage of a fairly complete education
at the hands of fraudulent mediums. While preserving an
open mind as to the possibility of the existence of some
hitherto unascertained force in nature whereby the manifesta-
tions testified to by so many observers of high standing were
produced, the discovery of repeated fraud had produced in him
an attitude of complete scepticism as regards the probability
of his ever finding any examples of the exercise of such a
force.
Fig. I.
Facing p. 321.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: General Account. 321
II.
GENEEAL ACCOUNT OF THE SITTINGS.
The Stance Boom.
On receipt of the Council's commission to hold further
experiments with Eusapia, a wire was sent asking if she
would consent to a series of seances, and an affirmative reply
being received, two of us, E. and C.,
1
went to Naples. We
chose adjoining rooms on the fifth floor of the Hotel Victoria,
one of the principal hotels in Naples, and decided to hold the
seances in E.'s room, of which a plan is given facing p. 346.
F. and C. then visited Eusapia and made arrangements with
her for a series of five seances, to be extended to ten if re-
quired. Enquiries were next made for an English shorthand
writer, who was eventually, on the suggestion of Messrs. Thos.
Cook & Son, discovered in the person of Mr. Albert Meeson, a
gentleman in the employ of the American Express Co., and hither-
to unknown to Eusapia.
2
A group of electric lights of variable illuminating power
was arranged and hung from the ceiling at a distance of
6 feet from the position of the medium's head.
As paraphernalia for the proposed seances, Eusapia desired
us to procure a pair of black curtains and a small deal table.
Alternatively, she offered to provide them herself. We accepted
her offer expressly with a view to seeing if she would provide
anything in the nature of a trick apparatus. The curtains,
which were her own, proved to be of very thin black cashmere
and concealed no mystery ; while the table which she procured
for us, and of which a photograph is given opposite, was on
careful examination found to be an absolutely plain structure,
1
From this point onwards the investigators, Messrs. Feilding, Carrington, and
Baggally (who later joined the first two), are designated by their initials.
2
We wish to take this occasion of expressing our acknowledgments to Mr.
Meeson for his invaluable assistance in what proved a most laborious under-
taking.
X
322 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
without rim, 2 ft. lOf ins. (87 cm.) long by 1 ft. 7| ins.
(48 cm.) broad, and weighing 10 A lbs. (4"75 kilog.). The
curtains were, at Eusapia's request, stretched across a corner of
the seance room on a wire fastened to nails in the walls, so as
to enclose a small triangular space, the depth from the angle
of the walls to the middle of the curtains beino- 2 ft. 8 ins.
(80 cm.), and the space so enclosed will be referred to through-
out this report as the '
cabinet.'
Eusapia also requested us to procure various small objects
to be placed inside the cabinet. We purchased accordingly
a couple of tambourines, a guitar, a toy trumpet, a flageolet,
a toy piano, and a tea bell. These objects were disposed about
the cabinet, some on a small round table which we generally
placed inside it, and some on the floor, leaning against the
walls or against the small table (see Eig. II.).
The scene, in fact, was set according to Eusapia's usual
habit ; and if a criticism be made (a criticism the justice of
which we are ourselves prepared partly to concede) that we
did not in this setting or in the subsequent conduct of the
experiments seek to introduce a variation from her accustomed
procedure, our reply must be that our time in Naples was
limited, and that after due consideration we preferred to adopt
conditions to which the medium was used and in which there-
fore it was probable that effects would be produced, rather
than impose others which might possibly impede the produc-
tion of what we had gone to study. We conceived our
function to be, not the scientific examination of the nature
of the force involved in the production of possibly supernormal
manifestations, but, by means of the technical experience in
'
spiritualistic ' conjuring possessed by two out of our number,
to attempt to determine the preliminary question of whether
the manifestations themselves were or were not merely at-
tributable to legerdemain.
Rightly or wrongly, we believed, and still believe, that the
simplest plan would be to allow matters to take their accus-
tomed course, while adopting every precaution that occurred
to us as necessary to the end we had in view. We felt that
if, in a reasonable number of experiments, persons specially
versed in conjuring tricks and already forewarned concerning,
and familiar with, the particular tricks to be expected, were
Fig. II.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : General Account. 323
unable to discover them, it would not be presumptuous to
claim as a probable consequence that some other agency must
be involved.
Conduct of the Seances.
Before the arrival of Eusapia, the room was examined, un-
necessary furniture removed, the cabinet was prepared, the
various objects put in position, and the curtains drawn together.
One of us then went down to receive her. She came
attended by her husband, who then left, and she came up
to our rooms alone. The door was then locked, and she
immediately took her place at the narrow end of the seance
table, with her back to the curtains of the cabinet, the back
of her chair being a foot or a foot and a half distant from
them. One of us sat on each side of her, holding or held by
her hand, with his foot under or on her foot, his leg generally
pressing against the whole length of hers, often with his free
hand across her knees, and very frequently with his two feet
encircling her foot.
The degree of control permitted by her varied very much,
and appeared to depend upon her mood. If she was in a good
temper she would generally allow us to control her as we
pleased, that is, to hold the whole of her hand, to tie her
hands and her feet, or to encircle her feet with ours. If,
as happened on two or three occasions, she was in a
bad temper, she made difficulties about everything, com-
plained of our suspicious attitude, allowed the poorest light,
and was generally intractable. We never found, hoivever, that
the adequacy of the control influenced unfavourably the pro-
duction of the phenomena. On the contrary, it was on the
nights when she was in the best humour, and consequently
when our precautions were most complete and the light the
strongest, that the phenomena were the most numerous. On
the other hand, when she seemed in bad health, or was in a
bad humour or indisposed for the seance, she appeared to try
to evade our control : she would not allow us to grasp her
hands fully, but merely rested them on ours ; she asked for
the light to be reduced, and her movements were furtive and
hard to follow. The phenomena on these occasions were rarer
and of small account, and ive did not find that the reduction
324 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
of light, and the consequent increased facility for fraud had
any effect in stimulating them.
Her own condition varied greatly. She exhibited three
stages of consciousness. During the continuance of the brighter
light in which the stance generally opened she remained per-
fectly normal, and it was in this state as a rule that the
levitations 1
of the seance table, which will be later described,
took place. She would then gradually sink into a condition
of half-trance, preluded as a rule by numerous yawns and
amazing hiccoughs. In this state she still speaks and answers
questions, though her manner is quieter than in her normal
state, her speech oppressed and plaintive, and her eyes
clouded. She professes to have no recollection of events that
take place in this state. It is difficult to distinguish the
exact moment of the beginning of this amnesic condition, but
when questioned she stated that as a rule she remembers
nothing after the light is reduced for the first time.
Of her third state, that of deep trance, we did not have
many examples. It was, however, generally coincident with
the more complex phenomena. Ex hypothesi, while in this
state she is under the complete influence of her '
control,' 2
'
John King.' She speaks sometimes in a deep voice, refers to
herself in the third person as 'my daughter' or 'the medium,'
and addresses the sitters as '
thou.' She laughs occasionally
in a raucous, almost diabolic manner, and her expression is at
times fierce and forbidding. But as a rule she is apparently
overwhelmed by sleep, throws herself often into the arms of
her neighbours, remains entirely passive, and surrenders herself
1
See footnote, p. 347. We use the word '
levitation ' merely because it ha?,
so to speak, become consecrated by practice in this sense. The word 'lifting'
would be more correct. The Paris experiments, referred to above, show con-
clusively that the lifting of the table does not involve any modification of
the laws of gravity, but that it is produced by some force having its point
d'appui in the medium, whose weight as registered in a scale increases by the
weight of the table at the moment of lifting. This is of course consistent with,
though not necessarily demonstrative of, a fraudulent lifting by her hands or
feet. The conclusion that the lifting is not produced by normal means can only
be arrived at by observing that in fact no mechanical contact exists.
2
The word 'control' is used in two senses, as meaning (1) the precautions
prevailing at the moment as to the holding of the medium's hands and feet
(2) when printed in inverted commas, the entity, or whatever it may be, calling
itself generally 'John King,' which purports to 'possess' her.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: General Account. 325
completely to their control. We did not attempt to make
any physiological study , of her condition in these varying
stages, this having already been the subject of elaborate obser-
vation by many previous experimenters.
Of the two trance conditions it is that of half-trance which
is the more complex, as it appears to exhibit the characteristics
of a form of divided consciousness, namely, her own trance
consciousness and that of the soi-disant '
control,' which co-
operate, though by no means with complete agreement, in
directing the proceedings. The former communicates through
her own speech, the latter by means of an established code
through tilts of the table. Thus, two tilts signify '
no '
three, 'yes'; four, 'talk'; five, 'less light'; seven, 'the seance
is ended.' In the early stages of trance the directions for
diminution ot the light are usually given through tilts or levi-
tations (sometimes apparently without contact) of the table.
Eusapia herself frequently opposes these directions, but as a
rule the table continues, by repeated series of five tilts, often
of great violence, to demand a reduction of light to which
she ultimately gives way. In the later stages of trance, when
Eusapia is entirely under 1
control,' the directions for less light
are given by her verbally, as is always the case for an in-
crease of light, for which there is apparently no accepted
code of tilts.
The Control.
There appears to be no feature of Eusapia's seances upon
which observers differ more than upon the question of the
difficulty or otherwise of properly controlling the move-
ments of her feet and hands. By comparing accounts it is
evident that this must vary to a marked extent, not only as
between individual stances, but as between series of experi-
ments. We can, of course, only speak of our own experience.
We can readily understand that if experimenters have had
the misfortune of assisting only at what may be called her
'
bad nights,' they would rise with a sense of profound dis-
satisfaction. Of such we had several examples, notably the
third seance of our series. Eusapia was in a nervous, anxious
mood, perpetually interrupting to ask if the control was satis-
factory, and perpetually rendering it as difficult as possible
326 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
for us to make it so. The conditions were precisely those
which seem to have chiefly prevailed at the Cambridge
sittings. Her hands played about on the top of those of
her controllers in a furtive and elusive manner, and the
light during a considerable portion of the seance was ex-
tremely dim. It was, however, not so dim as to prevent C.
from twice observing the substitution of hands which has
occupied so large a space in the general discussion of Eusapia's
mediumship. There was room to suppose that this trick was
again resorted to in complete darkness in the fourth stance; and
it was certainly performed once in the eleventh, when however
the light was amply sufficient to foredoom it to failure, if her
intention in performing it was fraudulent. (See note, Seance
XL, 10.30-10.34 p.m.)
Whether fraudulent or not, the skill with which the sub-
stitution was performed was remarkable. The tactile sensation
of continuity of contact was unbroken. On neither occasion
in Seance III., when the substitution was performed, was F.
aware of it, though it was immediately seen by C, on whose
side the hand was released ; while in Seance XL, though
visible to F. from the other side of the table, the release was
not felt either by him or by Mrs. H., who was controlling on the
side on which it happened. It is therefore possible, if not
probable, that substitution may have taken place on other
occasions when the darkness was sufficient to prevent its being-
detected visually, that is, chiefly during Seances III., IV. and X.
We consider, however, that the conclusions to which we
have come regarding the character of Eusapia's phenomena
are in no way affected by this admission. These conclusions
were formed as a result of seances in which, on account of
the degree of light and of the adequacy of control, substitution
of hands was not possible and,—unless our coincident sensations
of both sight and touch were constantly hallucinatory,—cer-
tainly did not take place, and of such seances the bulk of our
series of experiments was composed.
Our own experience, therefore, is that, whereas in certain
conditions absolutely no reliance can be placed on the control
of Eusapia and the phenomena obtained,—even when there is
no direct evidence to show that they are fraudulent,—are
wholly inconclusive and unsatisfactory: in other conditions the
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : General Account. 327
control of her is not a matter of difficulty, nor can the
phenomena observed therein be explained by any such method
as substitution or release of hands or feet.
Of substitution of feet we discovered no instances. It is
true that the method of controlling her feet preferred by
Eusapia, namely the placing of her feet on those of her con-
trollers, is in itself unsatisfactory. This method was, however,
by no means invariable. Sometimes, though rarely, she allowed
the controllers' feet to be placed on hers ; sometimes she
allowed both their feet wholly to encircle hers ; sometimes she
encircled the leg of one of the controllers tightly between her
own or rested both her legs across his knees ; and sometimes
her feet were held beneath the table. Nearly always the
controllers' knees pressed closely against the outside of her
knees, so that her leg was felt and imprisoned from the knee
to the foot, and very frequently (and whenever he wished)
a controller's free hand was laid across her knees.
We notice in other reports references to Eusapia's insistence
on the '
chain ' being strictly maintained, that is, that all the
sitters should join hands in a circle. During our seances,
except during Seances IV., VIII., X. and XL, when our num-
bers were increased by the addition of persons whom we had
invited, this was rarely done, and, except on a very few occa-
sions, was not asked for. She never objected to our moving
our free hands about as we wished, placing them on her
knees, head or shoulders, or feeling about behind her, or
passing them up and clown the whole length of her arms and
legs.
On certain occasions, as will be seen by reference to the
Remarks on the various seances, she permitted us, and on
others, invited us, to tie her hands to our own and to one
another, and her feet to her chair or to ours. But as already
stated, the occurrence of the phenomena appeared to depend
entirely upon her own condition, to the '
psychic trim ' in which
she happened to be, and not at all upon the severity or laxity
of the control or the degree of light permitted at the time,
or upon the closeness of our attention.
Our observations on the above head are positive and are
unaffected by those of other observers derived from less satis-
factory conditions. It appears unquestionable that, given the
328 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
opportunity, Eusapia will seek to produce her manifestations
normally, that is, by a substitution and momentary release of
her hands, and that if unchecked, she will continue to do this
for long periods together. It is also unquestionable that her
skill in effecting this substitution is so great that in poor
conditions of light it is practically impossible to rely upon
mere tactile sensation to determine whether she has or has
not resorted to it. Had our experiences been limited to our
third, fourth and tenth seances we should undoubtedly, even
though unable to demonstrate the fraudulent character of the
phenomena or to explain the mode of their production, have
remained wholly unconvinced that we were not the victims
of some clever trick. We did not, however, willingly permit
any imposture, and on the occasions when, in poor conditions
of control, we detected a substitution, we notified her that we
had done so. A general discussion of Eusapia's fraud and of
the impossibility of considering it applicable to the phenomena
on which we rely for our own conclusions will be found in C.'s
and F.'s notes to Seance III. and F.'s supplementary note to
the same seance ; F.'s note to Seance V.; all the notes to
Seance VI.; B.'s note to Seance VII.; F.'s note to Seance
X.; and B.'s final note.
The Phenomena.
These took place apparently according to a certain pro-
gramme. At the earlier seances, phenomena of a simple kind
only were produced. As the series progressed, new phenomena
were added at almost every stance, some of the former mani-
festations being eliminated, so that the proceedings appeared
to shift, as it were, along a kind of scale. The following
brief analysis of the seances will show this gradual develop-
ment, no regard, however, being paid to the quality of evidence
regarding each class of phenomenon.
SSancc I.
Movements and levitations of the seance table, with
and without apparent contact.
Raps on the table.
Movements of the curtain.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: General Account. 329
Stance II.
Many levitations of, and raps on the seance table and
movements of the curtain as before.
Touches, apparently by invisible or unseen finger tips.
Movements of objects inside the cabinet.
Loud noises and raps inside the cabinet.
Upsetting of table inside cabinet and transportation of
it over medium's shoulder on to seance table.
Plucking of guitar string inside cabinet.
One appearance of a head from cabinet.
Stance III.
Very few levitations.
Many movements of curtains.
Touches, noises in cabinet, and movements of objects
in cabinet.
Movements and levitation of small table outside cabinet.
Pulling of sleeve as if by fingers.
Stance IV.
At first very few levitations, more later.
Other phenomena as in Seance III.
Appearance of a white object (? a hand).
Movement of a tambourine outside cabinet.
Stance V.
Only one complete levitation but many prolonged
partial levitations.
Movements of curtain as before, and of small table
and objects inside and outside cabinet.
Appearance of hand and head from cabinet.
Production of a tangible hand felt through curtain.
o o
Production of cold breeze from medium's brow.
Stance VI.
No levitations.
Bulging of medium's dress.
Violent movements of the curtain.
Several appearauces of objects like heads, and of grey
and white objects, from cabinet ; also of a hand.
Grasps by complete hand through curtain.
330 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
Loud bangs on seance table.
C4entle twanging of guitar.
Cold breeze as before.
Stance VII.
No levitations, and but few movements of table.
Prolonged bulging of dress.
Appearance of hand and arm from cabinet, and of
other undefined objects.
Movements of objects outside cabinet, and loud bangs
as before.
Appearance of hand bringing bell from cabinet.
Appearance of lights.
Grasp by a visible hand outside cabinet.
Stance VIII.
Some levitations and movements of table, and violent
movements of curtain.
Series of transportation of objects from inside cabinet.
Many touches ; and appearances of objects like heads
and hands.
Untying of knots.
Stance IX.
Exuberant resumption of levitations of table.
Long continued movements of objects outside cabinet.
Touches, and grasps by complete hand through curtain.
{Before Stance X. Ringing of bell in seance room before
arrival of medium. (See note '
Bell incident.')]
Stance X.
Almost blank ; a few touches, grasps, levitations and
bangs on table.
Stance XI.
General resume" of almost all preceding phenomena,
levitations, bulging of dress, a light, movements
of curtain, grasps of hand, appearances of head
and other undefined objects, and movements of
objects, outside cabinet.
Sensation of an arm inside cabinet.
Sittings with Eusapia: General Account. 331
Slow climbing of a stool up the curtain.
Touch inside cabinet.
Long continued touches through curtain.
Loud raps and scrapings on internal door at consider-
able distance from medium.
Although it appears that the conditions under which our
seances were held compared favourably as regards light and
the general control permitted with many of those of former
observers, the phenomena themselves were of the ordinary
type. Not only did they present nothing exceptional, but
many of the more remarkable phenomena described by Sir
Oliver Lodge, by Prof. Morselli, and by M. Courtier in his
report of the sittings held by the Institut Ge'ne'ral Psychologique
of Paris, and others, did not occur.
We proceed to a description of the various classes of phe-
nomena, with references to the shorthand notes of each seance
for examples which appear to us especially worthy of attention.
Further descriptions of the more interesting cases will generally
be found in the preliminary Eemarks to the respective seances
or in the notes at the end.
(1) Movements and levitations of the stance table.
A series of these movements generally occurred at the be-
ginning and end of each seance, while occasional levitations
occurred during its course. They were among the most frequent
phenomena, and were produced in the strongest prevailing light,
viz. a light in which we were able to read small print. As a
rule the table began to rock in a manner explainable by the
ordinary pressure of Eusapia's hands. It then tilted in a
manner not so explainable, that is, in a direction away from the
medium while her hands were resting lightly on the top, and
finally it would leave the ground entirely and rise to a height of
from six inches to two feet rapidly, remain there an appreciable
time and then come down. Sometimes there would be slight
contact of the medium's hands on the top, but very frequently
no apparent contact whatever, her hands being held by us at
a distance of a foot or two from the table, either in her lap
or above the table. No precautions that we took hindered
332 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
these movements in the slightest. Eusapia had no hooks,
either at her wrists or under the front of her bodice, and we
could never discern the slightest movement of her knees or
feet. We very often had our free hands on her knees, while
her feet were controlled either by our feet or by one of us
under the table, and were generally away from the table legs,
an absolutely clear space being sometimes discernible between
her and any part of the table. The total levitations in our
series lasted as a maximum two or three seconds, though other
observers have reported levitations lasting a much longer space
of time.
Partial
1
levitations, on the other hand, when the table re-
mained tilted at an angle on two legs, generally away from
or sideways to the medium, were often of very much longer
duration, half a minute or even a minute. Sometimes there
would be slight contact, though of a kind insufficient to produce
the effect normally, but often there was no ascertainable contact
whatever, either with feet or hands. We would sometimes press
the table down and it would rise again, as if suspended on
elastics.
Sometimes there would be contact of her dress with the
table leg, but we never were able to perceive that this form
of contact had any mechanical importance. During certain
seances, notably the first, second and ninth, the levitations fol-
lowed one another with extreme rapidity so that our dictation
of the circumstances of one to the shorthand writer was often
interrupted by the occurrence of another and another. See e.g.
Seance I. 11.4, 11.43 and 11.44.
II. 10.54 to 11.11.
III. 10.52, 11.6 (table in stocks).
VIII. 10.18.
IX. 10.14 to 10.17, 10.23 2
and F.'s note, 11.50 2
and B.'s Final note.
(2) Movements of curtains.
The most frequent of the phenomena, as well as that most
susceptible of satisfactory control, was movements of the cur-
1
See footnote, p. 347.
2
Phenomena to which special attention is directed are given in italics or
block type.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : General Account. 333
tains hanging behind the medium. For these she generally,
though not always, demanded a reduction of the light, but it
still remained sufficient to enable every movement of the
medium to be clearly seen, even from the further end of the
table. She would generally hold out one of her hands towards
the curtain, always held by or holding one of ours at a dis-
tance of about 8 or 12 inches from it, and the curtain would
balloon out towards it in a bulge. Sometimes the same effect
would be produced if one of us held our own hands towards
the curtain at her request. The bulge was a round one, as
if the curtains were pushed out from behind. If we made a
sudden grab at the bulge, no resistance was encountered, and
the bulge subsided as though one had pricked the surface of
a balloon. There was no attachment to her hand, as we
constantly verified by passing our hands between her and the
curtain. Nor would any attachment produce the same effect,
as the curtain was so thin that the point of attachment of
any string would at once have been seen. Besides these bulges
in response to her or our gestures, there were spontaneous
movements of the curtain, often very violent, and frequently
the whole curtain would be flung out with so much force
that the bottom of it came right over to the further end of
the table. This occurred notwithstanding that Eusapia herself
was perfectly visible and motionless, both hands held and
separately visible upon the table, her feet away from the cur-
tain, in front of her, and under the table. See e.g.
Seance I. 12.5, 12.11.
II. 11.17, 11.30.
III. 10.6.
V. 10.37 etc., 10,57.
VI. 12.55, 2.0, C.'s note and B.'s Final note referring
to it.
VII. Passim.
VIII. 11.0 etc., 11.15, 11.53 etc.
X. 11.6 etc.
XL 10.11 to 10.18 and F.'s note.
(3) Balgings of the mediums dress.
This is usually a frequent phenomenon at Eusapia's seances,
though in our own series we did not have many examples.
334 E. Feliding, W. W. Baggaily, and H. Carrington. [part
A description of it will be found in B.'s note to Seance VII.,
which was the only seance at which we had an opportunity
of careful observation of it, though it occurred casually at
several other seances.
See Seance VII. 9.47 etc.
(4) Raps.
Of this, the simplest of all Eusapia's phenomena, there were
many examples, but we did not succeed in getting it under
what could be considered good evidential conditions until the
eighth and last seances. Either the raps were produced while
the medium's hands were resting on the table, or the exact
position of her feet at the moment of their production was
not determined, or the place where they sounded was uncertain.
At the end of Seance XL, when the light had been turned up
and the seance was thought to be ended, there occurred, in
response to gestures by the medium, a series of raps on an
internal door at a distance of 6 inches to 3 feet from her,
which appeared to fulfil all the necessary conditions. See
Seance VIII. 11.19.
XI. 1.15, and B.'s Final note.
(5) Bangs on the sdance table.
These bangs may be considered separately from the raps,
the quality and quantity of the sound being absolutely different.
Whereas the raps (except those which occurred in Stances
VIII. and XI.) were seldom louder than if made by a gentle
rap with a knuckle on the table, and were unaccompanied by
any apparent movement on the part of the medium, the bangs
sounded like a heavy crash with a wooden mallet, and were
always accompanied by a sudden movement either of the
medium's head or leg, though without any apparent contact
with the table. See e.g.
Seance VI. 12.25.
VII. 11.1.
X. 11.11.
(6) Noises inside the cabinet.
These were of constant occurrence, and took various forms r
sometimes a violent shaking of the small table inside the
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: General Account. 335
cabinet causing all the objects upon it to clatter over ; some-
times bangs upon some unascertained place within the cabinet;
sometimes noisy rhythmical movements of one or other of the
objects within, acting synchronously with a series of rhythmical
gestures or pinches of the hand of one of the controllers out-
side. See e.g.
Seance It 11.34 to 11.37.
III. 11.45, 11.50.
IV. 12.18 etc.
V. 10.52, 11.0 to 11.4.
VI. 11.50.
VIII. 11.43, 11.52, 12.17 etc,
(7) Plucking of the guitar.
Although this should be included under the previous head-
ing it deserves special mention on account of its remarkable
character. It may be numbered among the phenomena which
impressed us most. See
Stance II. about 12.3, and C.'s and F.'s notes.
VI. C.'s note.
(8) Transportations of the small table from the cabinet on to the
stance table, and movements and levitations of it outside
the curtain.
After the levitations of the seance table and the movements
of the curtain it often happened that the next manifestation
of '
force ' consisted of violent shakings of the small table
inside the cabinet on which were placed various small objects
as before stated. It was sometimes shaken with such vigour
that the objects all fell off. On three or four occasions it
then appeared over the medium's shoulder, as though lifted
by some one within the cabinet, and landed upon the seance
table horizontally, that is, with its top resting on our table
and its legs pointing into the cabinet. It would then some-
times appear to hang in that position, for half a minute or a
minute (possibly, though not apparently, supported by Eusapia's
arm, or ours as we held her hand on the seance table), and
try to climb on to the seance table. This it never succeeded
336 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
fully in doing and it eventually would fall back as if tired.
See e.g.
Seance II. 1142.
IV. 11.9, 11.13, 11.16 (conditions poor).
v. 11.ee, 11.51.
After the small table bad in the above manner got outside
the curtain, it would frequently move about, sometimes ap-
proaching the medium, and sometimes receding from her, or
be levitated when standing at a certain distance from her and
without any apparent contact. See e.g.
Seance II. 11.55 and 12.1.
III. 11.50 etc., but see C.'s note at end of short-
hand report.
V. 11.8, 11.22 to 11,36.
(9) Transportations of other objects from the cabinet.
After the fifth stance, in order to prevent the objects placed
on the small table from being disturbed, we either did not
put the table inside the cabinet at all or tied it firmly
down to staples. In the latter case, it was twice violently
shaken, lifted and let go with a bang, by some force which,
considering the tightness of the fastening, must have been
very considerable. The attention which apparently had hitherto
been directed chiefly to the table was now diverted to the
objects on it, and these were in turn transported by some
unascertainable agency on to the seance table. See e.g.
Seance VII. 11.20.
VIII. 11.55, 11.59, 12.22 (see C.'s and F.'s notes),
12.46, 12.50.
IX. 12.47.
XI. 12.15.
See also (15) below.
(10) Touches as by invisible or unseen finger tips outside the
curtain.
These touches took place on our arms, shoulders, heads, etc.
Although the light might be sufficient to see the medium's
head and hands clearly, and we might be looking in the
direction from which the touch came, whatever it was that
produced the touches remained unseen. See e.g.
ltx.] Sittings with Eusapia: General Account. 337
Seance II. 11.44, 11.49, 12.0.
III. 11.41, 11.45.
VI. 11.41, 11.44.
VII. 11.17.
VIII. 11.38, 12.9.
IX. 10.47 to 10.57, 1.3, 1.5.
X. 12.11 to 12.20 (see B.'s note).
XT. 11.0, 11.21, 11.28.
(11) Touches and grasps by a hand through the curtain.
This was the next development of this class of phenomenon.
The object which touched us was now apparently a material
hand with living fingers, even the nails of which were on
some occasions clearly felt. These touches occurred at times
when we were absolutely certain that Eusapia's hands were
held on the table in front of her. See e.g.
Seance V. 11.38 and C.'s note.
VI. 11.58, 1:2.11 to 12.17, 12.26, and C.'s and B.'s
notes.
VIII. 12.50, 12.56.
IX. 12.38, 1247 to 1.0.
XI. 11.2 to 11.9, 11.30.
On one occasion only was there a touch by a hand inside
the curtain. See Seance XL 12.56 and B.'s Final note.
(12) Abearance of hands outside the curtain.
The next development was that these hands became visible
outside the curtain. They generally, though not always, appeared
between the parting of the curtains over Eusapia's head. They
were of different appearances, dead paper white, or of a
natural colour. Sometimes they shot out rapidly and were
imperfectly seen, sometimes they came with a slow deliberate
motion, and sometimes carried objects with them. On one
occasion a grasp was felt by a hand seen at the same time.
See e.g.
Seance V. 11.10.
VI. 12.23.
VII. 11.20 and F.'s note, 12.9 (F.'s control not given),
and B.'s note.
VIII. 1.5 and F.'s note.
Y
338 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and II. Garrington. [part
(13) Appearance of heads and objects more or less like heads.
These '
heads '
were of several different kinds. At one time
they would appear like shadowy objects which shot out with
extreme rapidity and silence from the side of the curtain,
looking, from the position from which they were seen, like
two-dimensional faces in profile, made of cobweb. At another,
the appearance was as though the curtain had itself been
formed into the likeness of a head with very pronounced
features by being drawn tightly over a large hand with its
fingers crooked to imitate a face. On other occasions they
appeared like a square head at the end of a long stalk-like
body, which shot out over the medium's head, turned sharply,
approaching within a few inches of the sitter's face, and
then shot back. Sometimes they looked like the medium's own
arm, pivoted on her shoulder, and wrapped up in something
black, producing the effect of folds (or, as we described them
hurriedly at the time, '
warts '). The movement of these latter
'
heads ' was slow, and on the occasions when they appeared,
they emerged from the side of the curtain, came right across
the table (bringing the curtain also, as would be the case if
they had really been the medium's arm), bowed two or three
times with deliberation, and then retired. Their appearance
was obviously suspicious, but the control existing at the time
seemed adequate to exclude the possibility of her having freed
her arm for their production. See e.g.
Seance II. About 11.52 (no control).
V. 11.18.
VI. 11.38, 12.30, 12.40.
VII. 12.5 \ and F.'s note, 12.9 and B.'s note.
XI. 11.33, 11.34.
(14) Appearance of other indefinable objects.
In addition to these so-called heads there were other objects,
black, white or grey, which appeared from the cabinet above
the medium's head or at the side of the curtains. They were
of different shapes, sometimes square, sometimes round, in the
latter case looking like a white handkerchief rolled up, or a
handful of white muslin. Here again the actual appearance
was obviously suspicious. See e.g.
MX.] Sittings with Eusapia: General Account. 339
Seance VI. 11.41, 11.58, 12.6, 12.17, 12.20, 12.23.
VII. 10.57 (? hand and arm), 10.58, 11.7, 11.30,
11.32; 11.36 (control not given) and many
other cases where, however, the control was
not reported.
(15) Transportation of objects from inside the curtain by a visible
hand.
There were only two instances of this, and they have already
been included under (12).
Seance VII. 11.20 and F!s note.
VIII. 1.5.
(16) Movements of objects outside the curtain.
Besides the levitation of the small table which took place
after it had emerged from the cabinet, there were movements
of other objects, chiefly of a small stool which stood about
3 feet to the left of the medium, having either stood there
from the beginning of the seance, or placed there in the middle
of it for the express purpose of seeing whether she could move
it. It either jumped about where it stood, or approached the
medium or receded from her in response to gestures made with
her hand at a distance from it of several feet. In Seance XI.
it was also seen to climb very slowly up the curtain from the
floor to the level of her head, at a distance of about 3 feet
from her body. There were also movements of a tambourine
on the floor at a distance of 2 or 3 feet from the medium.
Examination for an attachment of some kind was made in the
intervals between movements of this kind, but none was found.
See e.g.
Seance IV. 12.23 (control imperfectly noted).
IX. 10.30, 10.33, 10.37, 10.40, 1145, 11.58, 1.5.
XL 10.19, 10.23, 12:26.
(17) Lights.
Of these we had but few examples, but these few must be
ranked among the more interesting phenomena. They were
of three kinds, a steady blue-green light such as one might
imagine to proceed from a self-luminous aquamarine, a yellow
340 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
light, and a small sparkling light like the spark between the
poles of a battery and emitting a similar sound. See
Seance VII. 11.36, 11.37, 11.45, 11.46 and F.'s note.
XL 10.55, 11.1.
(18) Sensation of cold breeze issuing from a scar on medium's brow.
Perhaps of all the phenomena, this, by reason of" its very
simplicity, appears one of the most preposterous. It has con-
stantly been observed by other experimenters. See
Seance V. After 12.12.
VI. After termination of seance, see C.'s note.
(19) Untying of knots.
Apparently sudden and mysterious untyings of knots have
also been reported by other experimenters. We had only one
instance of this. Unlike most of the other phenomena, it
occurred casually and unexpectedly, after the manner of a con-
juring trick. We record its occurrence without further comment.
See Seance VIII. 1.5 and F.'s note.
Conclusions.
The evidence for the foregoing phenomena varies considerably
both in quantity and quality, and we are of opinion that any
attempt at an analysis dividing them into classes for which
the evidence may be regarded as sufficient or insufficient would
be of purely academic interest and of no real value.
It was only through constant repetition of the same phe-
nomenon, in a good light and at moments when its occurrence
was expected, and after finding that none of the precautions
which we took had any influence in impeding it, that we
gradually reached the conviction that some force was in play
which was beyond the reach of ordinary control, and beyond
the skill of the most skilful conjuror. But though we have
come to that general conclusion, we find it exceedingly difficult
to say to which particular phenomena, or even to which
particular kind of phenomena, we have sufficiently strict evidence
to apply it.
So while each of us could indicate, and in our various notes
has indicated, cases of special evidential value to himself, we
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : General Account. 341
hesitate to select either any particular individual phenomenon
as providing absolute proof of some supernormal agency, or
any individual class of phenomena as exhibiting more certainly
its action.
We think there is no conceivable form of evidence which,
if relating to one phenomenon only, would have convinced us,
even as eye-witnesses, of its supernormal character. The mind
confronted with an obviously absurd isolated fact merely rebels,
as with us was (and remains) the case in, for example, the
isolated instance of untying of knots reported in Seance VIII.
Every possible and impossible form of doubt suggests itself
under such circumstances. And to persons who were not eye-
witnesses, the evidence regarding any special phenomenon will
inevitably appear still less conclusive.
Thus our conclusions are based on the resultant impressions
derived from the whole series, since we are unable to say to
what special phenomena these conclusions extend, and we limit
ourselves here to a statement of opinion, amounting in our
own minds to certainty, that to explain Eusapia's manifesta-
tions some agency of a kind wholly different from mere physical
dexterity on her part must be invoked.
The conditions in which the seances were held render
absolutely inadmissible the supposition that there was any
accomplice. There remains therefore, in our opinion, only one
possible alternative to the hypothesis of some supernormal
physical force, namely, the hypothesis that in some way we
were collectively hallucinated.
The hallucination theory has been repeatedly suggested and
has lately been urged with much ingenuity by Miss Johnson 1
as the probable interpretation of this class of phenomena, and
especially of the phenomena occurring in the case of D. D. Home,
which it would seem impossible to explain normally on any other
hypothesis.
It appears to us that this hypothesis must involve the
possession by Eusapia of some supernormal psychical force,
acting upon our perceptions—without systematic suggestion,
without preparation, irregular in its procedure, but invariably
producing the same results—in such a way as constantly to
1
See her paper on "The Education of the Sitter," in Proceedings S.P.R.
Vol. XXL, pp. 483-511.
342 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
inhibit our power of deriving any accurate information through
our ordinary channels of sense, visual or tactile.
The theory of hallucination in this case must apply to one or
both of the following incidents : namely, the fact of the
phenomenon itself, or the character of the control existing at
the moment of its production ; that is, either we imagined that
the phenomenon took place when in fact it did not, i.e. the
phenomenon was subjective, not objective ; or we imagined that
we both saw and felt Eusapia's hands in a particular place
when in fact they were elsewhere ; in other words, we were
constantly '
glamoured.'
We think ourselves justified in discarding the first of these
alternatives at once, without further discussion. The mere fact
that, when such a phenomenon as the transportation of an
object occurred, it was afterwards found in the place to which
it had appeared to be moved is alone sufficient to show its
inapplicability. Further, the flash-light photographs of M. de
Fontenay and others, and the records of the self-registering
instruments used by the Institut Gindral Psychologique or by
Prof. Bottazzi, supply absolute proof of the objectivity of the
phenomena,1
although, of course, affording no evidence of their
supernormal character.
There remains, then, the theory that we were hallucinated
as to our control.
It is clearly insufficient to suppose that we were merely
deceived, an explanation which, in unfavourable conditions of
hand-holding and of light, would be more than plausible. The
deception, in the conditions which prevailed at the bulk of
our seances, must amount to a complete hallucination.
1
One hears much of hallucination as a possible explanation of physical
phenomena ; but I can say that, after attending many stances, I have never
seen a single trace of hallucination in any single instance. In some cases,
I have seen illusions propagated, but never a full-blown hallucination. In
many cases, hallucination has been urged as a possible explanation for facts
which I knew and saw to be perfectly fraudulent. Fraud is always a far
simpler and more rational hypothesis than hallucination ; and I may say in
this connection that I have never met a conjuror who believes in hallucination
as an explanation of any conjuring or mediumistic trick, though his whole
performance depends upon a series of illusions. I think that, on account
of my long experience as an amateur conjuror and investigator of fraudulent
mediumistic devices, my testimony should have some weight in this connec-
tion.—H. C.
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : General Account. 343
This is undoubtedly the theory which will be held by the
most serious of our critics, and it is the oidy one we think it
worth while attempting to meet. To do so adequately is by its
very nature impossible, just as it would be impossible for a
person, by mere assertion, to meet a charge that he was not
telling the truth. We can but attempt to show its improbability
It would involve the assumption not only that each of us
was subject to fully externalised hallucinations both of touch
and of vision, but that we were concurrently and concordantly
hallucinated. When, for example, at 1.0 a.m. in Seance XL, B.
reports that he is holding both the medium's thumbs in different
hands, and F. from the further end of the opposite side of the
table shortly afterwards spontaneously reports a change of B.'s
control and says that he now sees B. holding both her thumbs
in his right hand, it would have to be supposed, first, that B.
was hallucinated when he reported that he held both her
thumbs in separate hands, and secondly, that F. was hallucinated
when he reported the change of the thumbs to B.'s right hand,
and that both remained collectively hallucinated during the con-
tinued touches on B.'s left hand by a hand within the curtain.
The hypothesis would imply, further, not only that we our-
selves were subject to such hallucinations, but that the majority
of all the other experimenters with Eusapia were similarly subject
to them. Also, that such hallucinations could be induced with-
out words on Eusapia's part, on persons who, while they had
frequently assisted at performances at which professedly super-
normal occurrences were to take place, had never yet been
hallucinated into a belief in them.
We should again have to suppose that this state of '
be-
slatnourment ' could co-exist with a decree of attention which
o o
was constantly being stimulated by the necessity of having to
report momentary observations to the shorthand writer ; that
it was strong enough to prevail against an attitude, at all
events in the earlier seances, of hostility, and in all of
them, of suspicion ; that while it was sufficiently effective to
prevent us from observing the modus operandi of tricks per-
formed in a reasonable light, requiring the greatest boldness of
execution, and often continuing for a considerable space of
time, it was not effective enough to preclude us from perfectly
well noticing the machinery of substitution when no tricks
344 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
were performed whatever (Seances III. 10.28; XI. 10.30), or
from contemporaneously speculating upon its performance in
conditions of darkness, when illusions of sensation might, as
we were well aware, easily take place. (Seances IV. 12.9 ;
X. 12.11).
Finally, we must suppose that this abnormal condition of
consciousness had supervened without any of the victims to it
either being aware of any change in himself, or noticing it
in the others. While familiar through experiment with the
possibilities of hypnotic and other suggestion, whereby halluci-
nations even in the waking state may occasionally be produced,
we believe that long continued and collective hallucinations of
this kind, without either previous hypnosis or verbal suggestion,
but purely spontaneous, are wholly outside those possibilities.
The question therefore seems reduced to a choice between
two improbabilities. Either we were constantly thrown into a
state of hallucination by means of a mysterious suggestive
influence exercised by Eusapia, for the existence of which,
either in her or in anybody else, there is otherwise, in our
view, no evidence whatever ;
or, on the other hand, the
ordinarily recognised laws of dynamics have to be enlarged by
the assumption that there does actually exist some hitherto
unascertained force liberated in her presence and for the exist-
ence of which, both in her and certain other persons, the body
of evidence is, we think, not inconsiderable.
With great intellectual reluctance, though without much
personal doubt as to its justice, we adopt the latter alternative.
Making, then, a reservation for the possibility of some form of
hallucinatory influence of such a kind as fundamentally to in-
validate the trustworthiness of all evidence and for the existence
of which we believe there is neither warrant nor parallel, we
are of opinion that we have witnessed in the presence of
Eusapia Palladino the action of some telekinetic force, the
nature and origin of which we cannot attempt to specify,
through which, without the introduction of either accomplices,
apparatus, or mere manual dexterity, she is able to produce
movements of, and percussive and other sounds in, objects at a
distance from her and unconnected with her in any apparent
physical manner, and also to produce matter, or the appearance
of matter, without any determinable source of supply.
Fig. III.
Facing p. 345.
Sittings ivith Euswpia: Detailed Report. 345
III.
DETAILED BEPORT.
Measurements.
Room} Width, 11 ft. (3'35 m.).
„ Length, 16 ft. 5 ins. (5 m.).
Height, 12 ft. 4 ins. (3-7 5 m.).
Cabinet. 8 ft. 2 A ins. (2 -5 m.) high.
3 ft. (90 cm.) deep, side to medium's left.
„ 3 ft. 3 A ins. (1 m.) deep, side to medium's right.
„ 2 ft. 7 ins. (80 cm.) from centre of curtains to corner.
E. R.'s Chair. Seat, 1 ft. 6A ins. (40 cm.) high.
Width, inside legs, 1 ft. 1A ins. (34 cm.).
outside legs, 1 ft. 4 ins. (40 cm.).
Depth of seat, 1 ft. 3 ins. (38 cm.).
Height of hack from floor, 2 ft. 10 A ins. (86 cm.).
Sdance Table.
Height, 2 ft, 8 ins. (80 cm.).
Width, 1 ft.
7 i ins. (48 cm.).
Between legs, small end, 1 ft. 4 A ins. (41 cm.).
Outside „ „ 1 ft. 7 ins. (48 cm.).
Length, 2 ft. lOf ins. (87 cm.).
Eim (flange), 3 A ins. (9 cm.).
Thickness of wood, f in. (1 cm.).
Depth of small rim, side, 1 in- (
-
5 cm.).
„ „ ends, in. ('8 cm.).
Weight, 10 Lbs. 8 oz. (475 kilog.).
Weight of small round table, 7 lbs. 8 oz. (3 '4 kilog.)
Weight of clay with board, 3 lbs. 12 oz. (1"7 kilog.)
Weight of clay without board, 3 lbs. 3 oz. (1*45 kilog.)
1
The door close to the cabinet (see plan of room, Fig. III.) was permanently
locked and secured with tape. There was no connection between any of the
windows, which were locked and shuttered. The seance room was on the fifth
floor of the hotel. It will be observed that the seance room was sheltered on
either side by B.'s and C.'s rooms, which prevented any access from the hotel.
The floor was of tiles covered by heavy carpet.
346 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Note.—In the case of each sitting, the Eeport gives (1) Eemarks
on the sitting, being a summary of what took place ; (2) the
verbatim contemporary shorthand report; (3) subsequent notes
by the individual sitters, Feilding, Carrington, or Baggally.
These notes were for the most part written within a day
or two of the seance and are dated. They were written
independently and supply a progressive record of the state of
mind of the individual sitters and of the effect produced on
them by the seances, as well as a more detailed description
of specific occurrences.
In the shorthand reports, the descriptions of phenomena are
printed in large type, and the descriptions of the control
prevailing during each particular phenomenon in small type,
while alterations in the general conditions, or casual occurrences,
or remarks not specifically concerning the preceding phe-
nomenon, are indicated by italics. In no case has the exact
shorthand report been added to or altered, otherwise than
grammatically, except as follows : when, on transcribing the
shorthand notes, it was found that the interpretation of a
passage describing either a phenomenon or the accompanying
control was not clear, the passage has been omitted, with the
result that the case is then understated, and the phenomenon
in question is described under the general heading of " non-
evidential." The transcribing of the shorthand report was
usually done the following day, and in the presence of the
sitters. Any additions made by them either then or at a
later date are enclosed in square brackets, initialled and dated.
The description of each phenomenon is given in the exact
words dictated by one of the sitters, usually, though not
invariably, by the one to the medium's left. Any dissent
from, or amplification of, the description by any other sitter
is also given. The condition of the light is given in black
type in the margin.
Remarks on Seance I.
November 21s/
1
, 1908.
The phenomena at this seance were of three kinds only,
movements of the table, raps on the table, and bulging move-
ments of the curtain, behind the medium, as though blown
Sittings toith Euscqna : Seance I. 347
out from within at a spot about on a level with her head.
These movements or raps went on almost without intermission
throughout, rendering proper description of them, as well as
of the control, almost impossible. Various degrees of light
prevailed, but these differences did not appear to have much
effect upon the movements, which were about as frequent and
strong in the good light as in the feeble. The seance began
at 10.35 p.m. Five minutes afterwards the table began to
tilt, sometimes in a way that could be explained by the
ordinary pressure of the medium's hands, but often in a
manner not thus explainable, either because her hands were off
the table altogether, or because they were only touching it on the
top in such a way as to be unable, normally, to produce the move-
ment. A very large number of partial and complete levitations
1
took place under these conditions. As the light was ample
during many of these, it was easy to see that no hook or
other form of attachment was used, nor, notwithstanding close
watch, could we ever detect the slightest trace of her
using either her knees or her feet. At the beginning of
the seance, the stenographer was in the adjoining room and,
what with our difficulty in keeping pace with the phenomena,
and his difficulty in hearing what we said, the shorthand
notes of this portion proved so inadequate that they are not
given in detail, only a few extracts being made. Even after
the stenographer entered the seance room and took his place
at another table, our inexperience as to the best and shortest
way of describing our control, and his in recording it, resulted
in the notes being very incomplete. From this point, however,
they are given more or less in detail for what they are
worth. Owing to all the details of control not having
been stated, a reader who can judge of the conditions only
1
Throughout the reports, the terms "complete" and "partial levitation"
constantly recur. By "complete levitation," we mean the lifting of the table
off all four legs simultaneously. A levitation of this kind was seldom
less than 6 in. off the ground, and frequently a foot or more. By "partial
levitation " we mean the raising of the table on to two, and sometimes on
to only one, leg. In complete levitations the table generally went up horizon-
tally, sometimes momentarily, but occasionally for several seconds. A partial
levitation would often turn into a complete levitation—the table, after having
been poised on one or two legs for a certain time at an angle, ultimately
leaving the ground altogether and going up into the air, usually at the same
angle.
348 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
from the actual records will naturally not be so impressed
with the difficulty of supposing that these levitations were
produced by hands or feet or some mechanical device as we
were, both at the time and since. Special attention may be
directed to the levitations occurring at 11.26, 11.43, and 11.44,
which occurred in good light, sufficient to enable us to read
from where we were seated. The levitation occurring under
the time 11.58, though in poor light, is of interest.
Throughout the seance, Eusapia's hands were held by
us, and her feet were controlled, sometimes by our feet
on the top of hers, or hers on ours. It is evident that
foot control of this kind is unsatisfactory in the case of long-
continued observation of sparse phenomena. During this
sitting, however, the levitations often followed one another
with such rapidity that dictation of them was almost impos-
sible, and notwithstanding that every kind of foot control was
tried, such as encircling her feet separately between our feet
and encircling the legs of the table with our legs, nothing
seemed to impede them.
Of raps there were many examples. The medium generally
held one of our hands in hers and made a gesture with it
towards the table, and a rap, apparently on the top of the
table, followed shortly after. The quality of these raps varied,
but as one of her hands was generally on the table, and her
feet were not in view, they could not be regarded as evidential.
The bulging of the curtain behind the medium, though
occurring at this seance in fairly poor light coming through
the slightly open door from the next room, were very remark-
able. The medium sat well in front of the curtain : her feet
and hands were absolutely controlled. She would approach
one of her hands, held by one of ours, to within about a
foot of it, and the curtain would bulge out, sometimes gently,
but sometimes with considerable force. The bulge was a
round one, as though blown from within, and not in the least
appearing as if any string or attachment were made to the
outside. The coming out of the curtain happened generally
as she approached her hand towards it, not as she withdrew
it, as would be the case if there was an invisible attachment.
During and between some of these movements C. passed his
arm between Eusapia and the curtain, and along the floor,
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance I. 349
and found no attachment, and indeed, as the curtain was
extremely thin, its movement, if any attachment had existed,
would have been obviously due to such, and of a wholly dif-
ferent character from what actually occurred.
Shorthand Report of Seanck I.
November list, 1908.
Present—F., C, and If., shorthand writer.
[Dictated] C. on right of medium and F. on left.
1
M., the steno-
grapher, in the next room with the door open, cdearly seeing the
table. Incandescent electric 16-candle power lamp hanging two metres
from medium's position at table, covered by three thicknesses of thin
brown tissue paper. The light is sufficient when sitting at the
side of the seance table to read small print in a Baedeker and
in Graglia's Pocket Italian Dictionary, holding them at the ordinary
distance from the face. Everything in the room is clearly visible
pattern of carpet and furniture covers, texture of skin of hands, etc.
Light I. = Electric light as described above.
Light II. = Square photographic lamp, with red linen sides, standing on
stenographer's table. Also light coming from the next room, which
was lit by an ordinary electric light, the door being ajar about 6
inches.
[No detailed contemporary note was made of the visibility of
objects in this light except as appears casually in the shorthand
notes.]
1
Throughout the reports F. = Feilding, C. = Carrington, B. = Baggally, and
M. = Meeson, the stenographer. Where special sitters were invited to attend
individual seances, this is stated in the introductory note and the initials of
their names are given in the shorthand Report.
350 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
Light I.
[The seance began at 10.35 p.m. Five minutes afterwards, the
table began to tilt, sometimes in a way that could be explained
by the ordinary pressure of the medium's hand, but often in a
manner apparently not thus explainable. These tilts took place
frequently away from the medium, while her hands were off the
table and perfectly visible. They followed one another very
rapidly, but, owing to our inexperience, we found it extremely
difficult, in our first seance, to describe them and the accom-
panying control of the hands and feet properly. This difficulty
was increased by the distance of the stenographer from ourselves.
The result was that the shorthand notes proved so inadequate
that they are not given in detail during the first part of the
seance. Nov. 22/08.]
11.4 p.m. The table tilts towards C, then a complete levitation
followed, both medium's hands being on the table, and both
clearly visible.
C. Both feet being on our feet, my left hand being across
both her knees.
F. I looked under the table and clearly saw that her knees
and the table legs were not touching.
11.6 p.m. F. I have taken off my right shoe.
11.7 p.m. The table tilts and stands up on one leg away from
medium. The medium stands up away from table, and the table
stood up on its two legs away from her. The medium removed
both her hands from the table.
C. Both of mine were also off the table.
F. My left hand only just touching table.
C. The table then appeared to give a little jump and raised
itself about an inch from the ground, and then fell back.
F. I did not notice that it was actually off the ground at any
time.
C. To me it appeared quite plain.
11.9 p.m. Three raps are heard.
F. The medium's hands were not touching the table. The
raps appeared to sound on the top of the table.
C. I don't know where her heel was.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance I. 351
[Light L]
11.10 p.m. The table stood up on the two legs nearest to
medium.
C. It appeared to me as though she pressed heavily on it.
11.11 p.m. Further non-evidential tilts.
1
11.15 p.m. M. enters stance room and sits at another table
facing medium, at a distance of about 8 or 9 feet from her.
F. and C. change places. Electric light in room put out, light in
adjoining room still burning, the door ajar about six inches.
M
Light II.
Nothing happens from this time till 11.22 p.m., when medium-
says that she feels tired and asks for the light to be turned up
again, which is accordingly done.
Light I.
11.23 p.m. Further non-evidential tilts.
1
Under the heading "non-evidential" are comprised tilts which could be
produced by the normal pressure of the medium's hands, e.g. towards or to
either side of her, as well as such other tilts as are referred to in the head-
note preceding the Remarks to this seance, of which, while at the time they
appeared to be evidential, the description as given in the shorthand report
seemed, on transcription, uncertain.
352 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light I.]
11.26 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
F. Nobody had a hand on the table. My left hand was on
medium's right hand, and was completely raised in the air. Her
right foot was on mine, and was away from the table.
C. I could see both her hands right off the table. My hand was
on both her knees.
F. The table tilts on legs furthest from medium and makes
rocking movements, there being no contact either with her, or C.
or myself.
11.34- P-m- F. Medium asJcs us to put our hands on her legs.
My left foot without shoe is on her right. I can tell which foot
it is and that her leg is not touching the table.
C. Her left foot is on my right.
F. J can sec right down the right leg of the table.
11.38 p.m. Medium makes gestures and raps follow.
11.39 p.m. More non-evidential tilts.
11.43 p.m. The table rocks violently.
F. I am certain that her right leg was not touching the table.
C. My right hand being across both her knees.
Complete levitation of the table.
F. I am certain that her right leg is not touching the table;
my right leg was curled round the table leg. I can see right
down the right leg of the table. The medium removed her
hands and mine from the table, which rose right up into the
air about two seconds after the hands had left. My right hand had
been pulled up by her about two feet above the table before it
started. [My left hand was on her right knee. F., Nov. 22/08.]
C. Her left foot was on my right foot. My right hand was
held by the medium beneath the table in her lap about one foot
from the table.
M. notes: "I could see table in the air with nobody touching it."
C. Medium's left foot was continuously on my right.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance I. 353
[Light L]
11.44 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
F. My hand was on the table. Medium's right hand on top
of mine and not touching the table.
C. Medium's left foot did not leave my right. My right hand
was across both her knees. I am sure that at that time medium's
leg did not come into contact with the leg of the table.
F. There was no possibility of her touching the leg of the
table. The table was lifted completely into the air off all four feet.
C. The medium's left hand grasped my right hand firmly and
was over mine, mine being between hers and the table.
F. My left foot was pressing strongly on hers.
11.If 6 p.m. Medium asks for less light. Light turned out, and
photographic lamp re-lit on M.'s table. [A candle lamp with red
linen sides. Some light also came in from the next room of which
the door was slightly ajar. F., Jan. 25/09.]
Light II.
11.49 p.m. Medium asks for thorough control, as she is going
to try and make raps in the middle of the table. She says "
If
you feel movements of my knee, don't mind, as it helps."
11.51 p.m. But nothing happens.
Further tilts.
11.56 p.m. F. Medium holds my right hand towards the left
curtain with hers and makes two slow movements which are
reciprocated by movements of the curtain.
F. My right leg was curled round the table leg, between it and
her right leg which touches the outside of my leg, my foot against
her heel.
C. Medium takes my right hand and lifts it right off the table.
F. Medium grasps my left hand in hers, and lifts it towards the
curtain about two feet above the table, and the curtain bulges
out about two feet.
11.57 p.m. C. My right hand is across both knees of medium
and I can see it clearly.
z
354 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light II.]
11.58 'p.m. F. She squeezes my left hand hard.
F. Table tilts to the right. Complete levitation of the table.
The table goes right up into the air. I was able to stoop and
put my left [? right] hand under the right table leg which I
saw the whole length of. Complete levitation off all four legs,
the medium's hands being right away from table.
C. My right hand was across both her knees. Her leg was
away from the table, which, however, was touched by her skirt,
but not in such a way as to be able to effect the results. While
the table was up she grasped my right hand with her left and put
it on the table, and I pressed and she pressed on the top of mine
very hard, downwards. [The table resisted our pressure for several
seconds, before falling back. C, Dec. 8/08.]
12.1 a.m. Table has resumed its position, and starts tipping to
medium's right. She says " Pay attention."
C. This leg of the tabic is at least six inches from her shirt.
12.2 a.m. Two or three gestures with left hand produce raps.
C. I can feel the vibration of the table after the gestures under
my left hand, which is on the table.
F. My hand is on the table and medium's hand on it. The
raps do not appear to come from the medium's hand but are like
a distant thump as if an echo.
12.3 a.m. More tilts of the table.
12.5 a.m. C. Medium, holding my right hand and raising it in
the air, makes movements towards the curtain which, after three
movements, bulges out and brushes against me.
F. My left knee is pressing against hers. She is holding my
right hand in hers. Her knees and hands are perfectly visible. I
can see the curtain come out.
C. Table also moves.
Medium calls our attention to her skirt bulging out on her left
side.
[I touched this bulging part, but felt no solid substance under-
neath her skirt, which immediately receded and did not again
bulge out. C, Nov. 22/08.]
LIX.] Sittings ivith Eusapia : Seance I. 355
[Light II.]
1*2.8 a.m. We can clearly see outline of medium.
G. My right knee pressing against her left. My right hand in her
left about IS inches from the curtain.
F. Her right foot is on my left.
12.9 a.m. Medium asks us to get nearer the curtain.
C. The curtain blows clearly out.
F. The curtain again blows out about two feet.
12.10 a.m. Medium calls attention to a light on the floor.
C. Can I touch it ?
Medium says, " Later."
Medium makes three movements towards curtain, which blows out.
F. The light remains good, the whole of the medium being
visible.
12.11 a.m. Medium raises C.'s hand towards curtain and says
" Vieni, vieni.'' The curtain blows out towards C.
C. I touched the curtain with my right hand while it was
blowing out and found no material resistance. [Between the
bulgings I felt along the carpet and between the medium and
curtain to see that there was no attachment. C, Nov. 22/08.]
F. Medium takes both our hands in both of hers and holds
them towards the curtain which blows out at least 2h feet, and
stops out a considerable time.
12.14 a- m- Medium now asks to rest.
12.15 a.m. As C. was bending down to ascertain the cause of
the previously described light [which turned out to be a reflection
from the next room on a patent leather shoe. Nov. 22/08],
the curtains bulged out and brushed against his head.
C. I was holding medium's left hand in my left. The medium
was leaning forward over the table.
F. Her right hand was over mine.
356 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light II.]
12.16 a.m. Table rocks violently, there being no contact at all.
12.18 to 12.23 a.m. Various tilts of a non-evidential character.
12.2-4 a.m. Table tilts from medium on one leg, followed by
complete levitation.
C. Both medium's hands are off the table. No contact at
any point except the left leg of the table, which was slightly
touching her skirt, but not sufficiently to have any effect.
F. The whole of the table went right up into the air. All
hands were off the table. Her right leg is still immovable against
mine. I still keep my right leg between her right leg and the leg
of the table.
C. She was pressing down on my right hand. I was pressing
down on the table very hard. Her left hand was holding my right
on the table. I feel sure that there was no contact between her
leg and the leg of the table. [At first sight this would seem a
contradiction, since I stated (1) that both the medium's hands were
off the table, and (2) that our hands were on the table, pressing
strongly. There is no contradiction, however. As the table was
being levitated, the medium lifted my hand off the table, with hers ;
but, while the table was still in the air, she placed my hand on the
table, asked me to press, and pressed herself. Our united force must
have exerted a considerable pressure, but the table continued to
stay in the air for one or two seconds after we had pressed in this
manner. C, Dec. 7/08.]
12.25 a.m. Complete levitation of the table again.
C. No contact on this side. My right leg is curled between
the medium's leg and the leg of the table.
F. It is not possible for her right leg to touch the leg of the
table.
C. My right leg is between her leg and the leg of the table.
Both knees are clearly visible.
12.2 \ a.m. F. Medium grasps my right hand. She makes
gestures with her right hand about six inches above the table.
She continues pulling my right hand and makes gestures of
pushing at the table, and the table moves. There was no
possibility of contact in any way.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Stance I. 357
[Light II.]
12.27 a.m. Complete levitation of the table.
F. She pulled my right hand about two feet above the table,
and the table followed it.
C. My knee was between her leg and the leg of the. table,
my hand across both her knees.
F. My right leg was between her leg and the leg of the table.
12.30 a.m. Seven raps tell us to end the stance and the lights
are turned up.
Note by E. Feilding.
It must not be thought that we are not painfully conscious of
the shortcomings of the report of this first seance. On re-reading
the notes after a lapse of a few days, it is mortifying to find in
how many cases the control, especially of the feet, is not stated.
Having frequently criticized the reports of others, we set out with
the intention of supplying a record which would be proof against
the attacks of absent critics ; and we have failed egregiously. The
seance was, in fact, far more remarkable than the report suggests.
The light, which, while the electric light in the seance room was
lit, was sufficient to enable us to see everything with almost as
much clearness as in an ordinary well-shaded sitting-room, was at
all times sufficient to show the medium's face and hands with
perfect distinctness. Notwithstanding the frequent lapses in our
description of the control, we were, in fact, at no time conscious of
the slightest suspicion of its adequacy. The movements of the
table or curtain were almost continuous. It was not as if Eusapia
waited for a favourable moment of inattention on our part to produce
a phenomenon, but the phenomena happened, and went on happen-
ing, in spite of our best efforts to prevent them. It is unthinkable
to us that for two hours two reasonably intelligent and active men,
both fairly well posted in the tricks of mediums, closely clinging
with arms and legs about this elderly lady, could be baffled by
mere methods of substitution of feet or hands, for which they were
constantly on the look-out. The shorthand report has given us
so much trouble that though it was written out as well as possible
in long-hand the day after the seance, we have delayed till to-day
typing it in its final form. It is therefore in the light of the fraud
practised in the third seance that we are able still to look back
358 E. Feilcling, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
with astonishment on the first, and record our unchanged impression
of its remarkable character.
E. F. Nov. 29th, 1908.
Note by H. Carrington.
There is little I can add to F.'s note, with which I wholly concur.
The weak point of the seance, of course (to outsiders, not to our-
selves), is the frequent lapse of recorded control of one hand or
one foot. This was due partly to our inexperience of this particular
kind of dictation and to the rapidity with which, on occasion, the
phenomena succeeded one another. We would dictate an account
of a phenomenon and, say, the control on one side, when another
phenomenon occurred and prevented the opposite sitter from giving
his control. When several phenomena thus occurred in rapid succes-
sion the control was almost invariably the same for all, so that, by
reading the record, and piecing together the various controls of
hands and feet as stated, a correct idea may be gained of the
degree of its efficacy. I need only add that the control in this first
seance struck me throughout as almost perfect, while the light,
during the greater part of the time, was so good that we could
clearly see both the medium's hands, and we should almost have
been content not to hold them at all, so clear was her every
movement.
H. C. Dec. 7th, 1908.
Remarks on Seance II.
November 23rd, 1908.
In the second seance the programme of phenomena was
somewhat enlarged. Besides a very large number of levita-
tions of the table and raps upon it, there were touches by
invisible or unseen finger tips, or what felt like such, on both
F. and C, while there were also, as before, many movements of
the curtain. There were, further, movements of the objects
behind the curtain ; noises and raps behind the curtain ; the
plucking of the string of the guitar on the floor in the
corner of the cabinet ; the upsetting of the small table in the
cabinet, and the transportation of it over the medium's shoulder
half on to the stance table; and the appearance to C. of the
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance II. 359
silhouette of a kind of head which shot out to a distance
of about two feet from the curtains.
As a result of practice with the shorthand writer during
the day, the descriptions of the control, though still in many
important cases inadequate, were not only much better given,
but better recorded, so that the shorthand report gives a
fairly accurate summary of the proceedings. The same dif-
ficulty of keeping pace with the phenomena was, however,
experienced as at the first seance, for occasionally they
followed each other so rapidly that the description of
one was interrupted by the happening of another and
then another. Perhaps the most remarkable thing about this
seance was the number and interest of the phenomena which
occurred in the bright No. 1 light, a sixteen candle power
lamp shaded with three thicknesses of tissue paper, and which
was strong enough not only to enable us to see every object
all over the room, but even to read, at our places at the
table, small print. The sitting began in this light, and the
table almost immediately started tilting with contact, and
raps were produced in it while the medium knelt in her
chair, with her feet away from the table, and only touching
the table with one hand. We were not afterwards able to
imitate these raps, but, owing to the contact of the medium's
liand with the table, felt unable to come to any conclusion
as to their origin.
Aware of the objections to the character of the foot
control at the previous seance, we asked the medium
if she would allow her feet to be tied. She made no ob-
jection, and they were accordingly secured round the ankles
to the legs and rung of her chair, leaving her a play of
about four inches. There then followed a series of tilts of
a remarkable character, sometimes without contact of the
medium's hands, and no apparent contact of her feet; some-
times with a hand resting on the table, but in such a way
as could not account normally for the particular movement.
Her body was always motionless during these tilts, a clear
space of generally about 6 inches being visible between her
chest and the table. Under the conditions of light in which
these tilts and the subsequent complete levitations occurred,
any hook or attachment to her body would have become
360 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
immediately visible. Nor was there, so far as we were able
to see, any action of her knees or feet. It is true that the
fastening of her ankles was not close enough to prevent her
from getting her feet under the legs, and raising the table
at one corner or another by ankle movement, and so pro-
ducing a very easily detectable " partial levitation." We
were, however, of course, specially and constantly on the
watch for action of this kind. The hands of one or other
of us were frequently over both her knees, and during a great
part of the stance F.'s leg was completely between hers and
the leg of the table.
Occasionally, when the table was tilted or entirely levi-
tated, it resisted considerable pressure downwards by C.
see shorthand notes at 10.45 p.m. and 10.58 p.m. Sometimes
the table would start upwards while the medium's hands,
holding or held in ours, were on the table ; but sometimes
she would pull our hands high above the table, or one above
and the other below on her lap, and then the table would
rise a second or so later—see shorthand notes at 11.0, 11.1
and 11.13 p.m. Total levitations alternated with partial ones-
—see shorthand notes at 10.58, 11.0 and 11.5 (three in
rapid succession) and 11.11 p.m. (two).
It was not till after successive diminutions of light had
been made that movements of the curtain occurred. These
reached a climax in the whole of one of the curtains blowing
right over the full length of the table (11.30 p.m.), after
which noises took place in the cabinet under what appeared
to be perfect conditions of control.
At 11.42 the small table in the cabinet was lifted up and
came over Eusapia's left shoulder, with the curtain enveloping
it, on to the seance table and remained hanging there, its
top on the seance table and its legs downwards at an angle
of about 45°, over Eusapia's and C.'s joined hands. C. felt
it pushing against his hand as though it were trying to climb
further up on to the seance table, and eventually it fell back
on to the ground, where it lay horizontally, its legs pointing
outwards. At a later period of the seance (11.55 p.m.) in a
poor light, though sufficient for both C. and F. to see it from
their places, it began to retire back into the cabinet towards
the corner, away from Eusapia, in a series of little jumps, a
LIX.] Sittings tvith Eusapia: Seance II. 361
movement which it continued to make after Eusapia had
directed the electric light to be turned up again.
At 11.44 p.m. there commenced a short series of touches
on both sitters given in different places in immediate response
to requests, the medium's head being visible, her hands visible
and held, and her feet tied. Whatever it was that produced
the touches remained, however, unseen.
The appearance, at about 11.52 p.m., of a square head on
a long neck which shot apparently from the curtain between
Eusapia and C, cannot, perhaps, be considered in itself as
evidential, as F. had ceased to control the medium's right
hand while engaged in releasing the fastening of her right
foot. It was, however, the first of many subsequent similar
appearances which occurred while the control was adequate,
and is of interest on that account.
After more noises in the cabinet synchronising with muscular
tensions of the medium's hand (11.55 to 12.0 p.m.) Eusapia
asked for more light, and the electric light of the seance
room was turned up as at the beginning of the sitting.
Then followed a series of manifestations which must be
regarded as amongst the most remarkable that occurred through-
out the seances, on account of the excellence of the light and
the absolute ease with which every movement of the medium
could be followed. Eusapia sat about a foot away from the
curtain, which was withdrawn in such a way that on different
sides of it C. and F. could see right into the cabinet. The
shorthand notes and F. and C.'s notes thereto should be
referred to.
Shorthand Report of Seance II.
November 23rd, 1908.
The condition of stance room icas the same as at the last stance.
Present, F. and C. ; and M., shorthand writer, seated at another
table in stance room.
The stance began at 10.1'2 p.m.
Light at commencement : Incandescent electric light in the centre
of room, shaded as before. Bright light in the next room and
the door open. Light enough to read small print at our places
at the table.
362 E. Feliding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
/
M
Light I.
Various non-evidential tilts take place.
10.20 p.m. F. asks medium if she will try and get a rap whilst
standing aiuay from the table. She assents and kneels on her chair,
her feet aiuay from the table.
10.21 p.m. Two movements of her left hand above the table
at a distance of about 6 inches result in two raps in the wood
of the table following about one second after the movements.
F. Her right hand is apparently motionless on the table.
10.23 p.m. F. Medium tapped three times on the table and then
put the tips of her fingers touching the table between mine [my
hand being flat on the table with fingers outstretched, F., Feb.
6/09] whereupon about five seconds afterwards three creaks
imitating the rhythm of the taps followed, but entirely different
in the cpiality of the sound.
[Subsequently we ascertained that these creaks could be obtained
by considerable muscular pressure. At the same time we must admit
that no such pressure was apparently exercised by the medium.
F. and C, Nov. 24/08.]
F. The creaks were evidently made under my hand.
10.28 to 10.36 p.m. Time occupied in tying up medium's legs.
At her request, each ankle was tied to the nearest leg of her chair
by means of a rope p>asscd once round her ankle and tied, then
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance II. 363
[Light I.]
attached to the leg and rung of her chair, leaving her a play of
about four inches.
10.37 p.m. The table raised itself on the two legs furthest
from her.
F. Her right hand was on my left hand and my little finger
was over the edge of the table so that she could not have lifted
the table with her wrist.
C. Her left hand was over my right, mine being between hers
and the table. [No effort was perceived by either of us. F. and
C, Nov. 24/08.]
10.38 p.m. The table is going up in the air at the present
moment. The table again raised itself away from her.
F. Her hands are absolutely on the top of our hands, and not
touching the top of the table at all.
F. Now it has done the same thing again.
F. My left hand is on her knees, which are motionless. My
left foot is touching her right foot and is between it and the leg
of the table.
C. Her left foot is on my right foot, and my right knee pressing
against her left knee.
10.44 p.m. The table again raised itself on two legs away
from her, her hands barely touching it and the fingers being
on our hands.
F. My left hand still on her knees, my foot as before.
10.45 p.m. F. With only her left hand resting flat on the
top of the table, the table tilts to the right. C. is trying to
press it down.
C. I was strongly pressing downward with my right hand.
F. Her right hand was on my shoulder at the time.
[Foot control not mentioned, but remembered by us to be as
before. F. and C, Nov. 24/08.]
10.47 p.m. Medium makes three raps with her fingers on the
top of the table, and three faint raps follow, apparently in the
wood of the table, about two seconds afterwards.
364 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light I.]
10.48 p.m. Medium squeezed both our hands tightly, our
hands being between hers and the table, and the table raised
itself from her.
F. My left hand was on her knees, my left foot between her
foot and the table leg.
10.49 p.m. The table has again raised itself away from her,
her hands being flat on the top of it, partly resting on our
bands.
10.54 P-m- F. I have changed the control from my left foot
to my right, My right foot is now between hers and the leg of
the table,
10.58 p.m. The table tilts on the two right less
C. The medium's left hand is held in mine over the table, her
left foot being pressed on my right, and my right knee being in
contact with her left knee.
F. Her right hand was on my shoulder.
F. The table was then completely levitated, and both C. and
she afterwards pressed on C.'s side of the table, which went
up in spite of their pressure.
C. I pressed strongly.
11.0 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
C. The medium's left hand pulled up my right about four
inches above the table, her left foot pressing against my right foot,
my right knee pressing against her left knee.
F. The medium's right hand was partly on mine, the wrist just
touching the top of the table, my left hand across both her knees,
my right foot touching her right foot and being between it and
the table leg. My lace was within six inches of the edge of the
table.
11.1 p.m. The table tilts on the two legs furthest from
medium, both her hands being clearly visible and about a
foot away from the table, and her fists being clenched in a
line with her waist.
C. The control of the feet being the same as before, except that
my right hand was then also grasping her thigh.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance II. 365
[Light L]
F. My left hand was across both her knees.
[The medium sat well back in her chair and her body was at
least nine inches from the table. We clearly remember the con-
ditions of this striking phenomenon. F. and C, Nov. 24/08].
11.5 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
F. The table lifted about six inches, only C.'s left hand and my
right were on the table, clasped across the middle of it.
Another complete levitation of the table.
F. Nobody's hands are on the table, it goes up all by itself.
Another complete levitation of the table.
C. All hands being off the table. Her right hand was free but
perfectly visible, and about six inches off the table.
11.10 -p.m. F. asks medium to attempt levitation whilst standing
up ; she agrees, but presently says that she cannot stand any longer.
She reseats herself.
11.11 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
C. Both hands of the medium were about eight inches above the
table. I can clearly feel her left foot across my right ; the leg of
the table was not in contact with her skirt.
Another complete levitation of the table.
F. My left hand was underneath the bottom of the right leg of
the table. There was no contact between her and the leg of the
table. Her right hand was off the table altogether.
C. There were nine inches between her body and the table.
11.13 p.m. Partial levitation of the table.
F. She removed her hands entirely from the table about two feet,
and the table went up on the two legs furthest from her, about
one foot.
Immediately afterwards she repeated the same, taking our hands
in her lap, whereupon the table again lifted up and wriggled
about without anybody touching it.
F. My hand was on her right hand all the time.
C. My right hand was on her left hand.
366 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light L]
F. I could see right clown the leg of the table.
[We could clearly distinguish her two hands. F. and C, Nov.
24/08.]
Light II.
11.17 p.m. Electric light in room turned out, electric light in
next room burning, the door partly open ; cdso photographic lamp
for M.
[ We could clearly see across the room and distinguish every feature
of the medium and her two hands. F. and C, Nov. 24-/ 08.]
M. notes: " The medium's head is clearly visible to me, at a distance
of about 9 feet."
11.17 p.m. The left curtain has blown out.
C. The medium's left hand was on my right, her left foot on
my right foot. The phenomenon took place on her left side.
F. The medium was holding my left hand on her lap, and it is
visible to me. Her head is visible.
The curtain again blows out.
C. With her left hand the medium held my right towards the
curtain which blew out towards it.
This has happened again.
F. My control is the same as before, my hand in her lap with
hers, and her right foot on mine.
11.19 p.m. Partial levitation of the table.
C. The medium grasped my right hand in her left hand and
raised it above the table and the table then tilted on the two
legs furthest from her. Her left foot was on mine.
F. Her right hand was off the table, my left hand was on her
knee. My right leg was curled right round the leg of the table, and
was between her leg and the table.
[In three or four of the above levitations, it will be noticed that
no description was given by me of my foot control. In these cases
I was not satisfied with the control, feeling the pressure of a heel
rather than a whole foot across my instep, which was invariably the
case when I stated "I feel the medium's foot on mine." At such
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance II. 367
[Light II.]
times I felt the whole of the medium's foot, and there was no
possibility of substituting one foot for two. At the same time we
must record the fact that subsequent experiment showed us that it
was impossible for us to levitate the table with the one free foot unless
contact with the hands was also allowed. Besides which it must be
recorded that our hands were on her knees, and the light good.
C, Nov. 24/08.] [Further, it must be remembered that the medium's
feet were tied to the legs of her chair, with only four inches play, so
that substitution of feet was impossible. F., Feb. 8/09.]
Light III.
11.23 p.m. Light further lessened by closing the door more, only
red photographic lamp and feeble light coming through crack in
door remaining.
C. I can clearly see the medium's eyebrows, her lips, the difference
in the white and brown of her hair.
M. notes :
" The three heads just visible to me" his distance from
the medium being then about twelve feet.
C. The table rises three times on the two legs furthest from me.
F. With violence.
C. Her left foot is on my right, her left hand on my right hand
which rests on her left knee.
F. She was holding my left hand in her right hand, and I could
feel her thumb and knew it was her right hand.
[Though not stated, she held my hand in her lap ; both hands
were clearly visible. F., Nov. 25/08.]
11.26 to 11.31 p.m. Various tilting phenomena of interest took
place which the medium asked us not to take the trouble to
record owing to the poorness of the light.
Light IV.
11.30 p.m. Still less light, the door into the next room being
further closed.
M. notes :
" I cannot see the heads."
I. " John, are you there ?
"
Three raps follow on the table.
368 E. Feilcling, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light IV.]
C. The left curtain has blown right out on to the table.
C. My right hand was under the table firmly holding the
medium's left hand.
F. I have hold of her right hand continuously in her lap.
ll.oJf. p.m. F. The medium kicks with her right foot violently
on mine.
C. She kicks me with her left foot cdso. Her left hand raises my
right hand towards the curtain.
Objects in the cabinet rattle on the table inside the curtain.
11.35 p.m. F. Medium asks me to put my left arm on her
shoulder. Her right arm is round, my neck.
11.36 p.m. C. With her left hand medium is holding my right
hand on the table.
11.37 p.m. The objects in the cabinet have fallen over on the
table inside it.
C. She grasped my right hand firmly in her left hand at the
time this was going on, and pressed on my right foot with her left.
F. I was holding her right hand on the table with my left, and
the tips of both her feet under the table with my right hand.
C. My left hand was holding her head and I was holding her
left hand in m}' right.
11.42 p.m. The small table in the cabinet has been lifted up
on to the seance table, behind the curtain, several objects remain-
ing upon the top.
F. I could see that her head was motionless.
C. My right hand was held in her left hand on the seance
table. Her left foot was on my right.
F. Her right hand was in my left hand. I was holding both her
toes in my right hand.
C. The small table from the cabinet is pushing against me with
considerable force, the objects being still on it.
[The table was pushed out on to the seance table at an angle
of about 45 degrees, still covered by the left-hand curtain, which
thus prevented the objects from falling off. The four feet of the
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance II. 369
[Light IV.]
table were about two feet from the ground, and the table remained
in this position for at least one minute, pressing strongly against
my hand which had been raised from the table still holding the
medium's, and apparently making efforts to climb on to the seance
table. C, Nov. 24/08.] [After which it fell back to the ground.
F., Feb. 6/09.]
C. My right arm is under the curtain, my hand being held by
the medium's left hand. The curtain has remained on the seance
table, covering our two arms, with several small objects inside, these
having fallen off the top of the small table.
ll.Ii.Jt, p.m. C. Medium grasped my right hand and passed it
through the opening of the curtain.
F. Both her feet are on mine.
F. " John, will you touch me ?
"
F. I was immediately touched on my left forearm in reply to
my request.
F. I am holding her right hand continuously.
C. Her left hand held mine on the top of the table.
F. I could see her face.
C. So could I.
F. asks " John " to touch G,
C. I am touched through the curtain on my right arm.
C. Her hand is holding mine on the top of the table. I could
see her face.
F. I could see her right hand in mine and her face.
11.4-9 p.m. F. asks "John" 'whether he can touch C. on the head.
The medium asks F. to rest his head against hers.
F. Our two heads are touching.
C. I am touched on the head as if by a hand through the
curtain.
C. While this was going on the medium held my hand in hers
and I could feel her forearm with my arm pressed against it. The
distance between her hand and the touch was about two feet.
F. Her head was resting against mine. Her right hand was in
mine.
2 a
370 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light IV.]
C. The curtain blows right out over the table.
Medium asks that her feet should be untied as they are hurting
her. Up to this point, they have remained tied by the rope.
[Finding it impossible to untie the knots, I cut the rope from the
right leg. F., Nov. 25/08.]
[The releasing of the feet was interrupted by the sudden appearance
of the phenomenon next mentioned, and the left foot remained tied
till the end of the stance. F., Feb. 8/09.]
C. I can see a square object coming right out in front of my
face for about a second and disappear immediately.
[The object seen by me was quite black and about five inches
square, and appeared to be the silhouette of a man's head, small
in size and very square in shape and having a long neck. This
occurred when F. was kneeling down cutting the rope on her right
side, and had consequently let go of her right hand. C, Nov.
25/08]. [I looked up immediately C. spoke, and her right arm
was resting on the table and against my shoulder. F., Nov.
25/08.] [The head appeared to be about six inches from my
face, and was between my head and the medium's. C, Dec. 1/08.]
C. The left hand was held by me, the right hand was not con-
trolled.
11.55 p.m. C. The small table is walking into the cabinet
[i.e. away from the medium. F., July 11/09].
F. I have her right leg securely.
C. The medium is holding my right hand in her left hand on the
table, and I can clearly see her face.
F. Her right hand is in mine and visible, on the table.
F. My right leg is in contact with her right knee.
C. Her left foot is on my right foot, my right knee pressing
against her left knee.
11.56 p.m. F. The medium, whilst holding my left hand makes
three gestures, and noises in the cabinet follow each gesture.
C. She [is holding my right hand in her left hand.
F. Now she presses my hand three times and three noises are
heard simultaneously in the cabinet, on the tambourine.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance II. 371
[Light IV.]
12.00 p.m. C. I hear movements in the cabinet.
C. I am touched as if by a hand through the curtain.
C. My right hand holds her left hand firmly on the table.
F. Her right hand is in mine all the time, her face close to
mine and visible.
[The touch was on my right side. C, Nov. 25/08.]
12.1 a.m. Medium asks for more light; electric light turned up.
Light I.
F. She makes three movements with her right hand.
C. The small table moves away from her in the cabinet, whilst
I am looking at it. I can clearly see the whole table, which
moves about a foot.
[The table was lying on its side on the floor, the curtain being
accidentally drawn to one side sufficiently for us both to see
into the cabinet, F. and C, Nov. 25/08.]
M. notes :
" I see this also."
[While I was looking at the small table in the cabinet (the
curtains having been accidentally parted, allowing me to see the
whole table) it made a series of little jumps in a direction away
from the medium, and back into the cabinet. I could see that
there was no contact between the medium's foot and the table,
while a thread, if pulled, would have had the effect of pulling
the table in the opposite direction, i.e. towards the medium.
About six or seven little jumps of this kind were made, bringing
the small table again right into the cabinet. The light was
particularly good, at this time, and I could clearly see the whole
of the table as it was moving. C, Dec. 7/08.]
F. I can see between her and the place where the table was,
over her knee [between the two curtains].
F. I was looking into the cabinet over her knee. She pinched
my hand and the table in the cabinet wriggled about.
C. I also can see the table moving about in the cabinet.
A note is struck on the string of the guitar.
372 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light I.]
[Eusapia had tapped three times on the palm of my hand with
her right hand, the first two taps were followed by raps in the
cabinet, and the third by the plucking of the guitar string.
Thereupon she laughed diabolically. F., Nov. 25/08.]
[The guitar was a metre behind the back of the medium's chair,
and the small table was between medium and guitar,—the guitar
standing upside down in the corner, on the floor. F. and C,
Nov. 25/08.]
[In re-reading this description we notice that the foot-control is
omitted. Owing to the excellence of the light, however, we could
clearly see that her feet were not employed. There was a clear
space of about a foot between the back of her chair and the curtain,
and her knees and feet were towards the seance table. F. and C,
Dec. 6/08.]
C. The small table moves forward a foot while we are looking
at it.
C. Both her hands are clearly visible, the light good, the feet held
as before.
[At this 'point the medium discovered that the cabinet curtain was
accidentally drawn to one side allovnng me to see into the cabinet.
She thereupon reached up and replaced the curtain in its proper
position. C, Nov. 25/08.]
F. The medium says that she wants to touch the small table in
the cabinet.
She raises it from the floor and puts it upside down and closes
the curtains.
C. Her feet are about two feet in front oj the curtains.
[Her chair was now turned slightly to the left. F., Dec. 1/08.]
12.5 a.m. Medium makes six gestures and large movements of
the left curtain take place.
F. Her light hand was on my shoulder, the left hand holding
C.'s wrist.
15. 12 a.m. F. asks "John" to touch him, "John" replies by tilts
of the stance table.
12.13 a.m. Medium says that she is tired.
lix.] Sittings with Eusajpia: Seance II. 378
[Light I.]
F. tells " John " that the medium is tired and asks him whether
the stance shall end. The medium says, " say '
Yes ' John," but
"John" tilts "No, No."
C. Medium holds my right hand in her left hand, and makes
three taps on my right hand with her right hand ; three taps
are heard in the cabinet apparently on the wood of the small
table corresponding with these taps.
F. Absolute control of feet.
12.15 a.m. F. She takes up curtain and elraws it to C.'s right
hand, holding C.'s right hand in her left hand on the table. Her
right hand supports her head. She lets curtain fall back.
F. The curtains part in the middle and I can see right into
the cabinet.
[They were drawn gently aparc, just as though some invisible
person within were looking out. F., Dec. 1/08.]
12.18 a.m. Four complete levitations of the table.
Both her hands being clearly visible and six inches above the
table.
F. My right leg is curled right round between her leg and the
leg of the table.
C. Her left foot being on my right, pressing very strongly.
Medium again says that she is tired, and " John," on F. asking
him if the siance may now end, tilts three times, meaning " Yes."
Note by H. Carrington.
So many remarkable phenomena took place at this seance, in
good light and under what appeared to us excellent conditions of
control, that little need be said, save to record the fact that we
both felt, at its conclusion, that at least some of the phenomena
were undoubted. The plucking of the guitar string alone, under
the conditions prevailing, appeared to us practically convincing. It
must be remembered that, at this time, the light was excellent,
allowing us clearly to see the whole body of the medium, and to
read small print. Her head and her two hands were plainly visible ;
her feet controlled; in addition to which there was a space of about
.374 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
a foot between her body and the cabinet curtains. Further, the
small table was lying on the floor in the cabinet, forming a sort
of " fence " between Eusapia and the guitar. The guitar was upside
down, in the corner, and at least four feet from the medium. Yet,
under these conditions, a string was clearly and forcibly plucked
on the guitar. We were absolutely positive at the time, and remain
so still, that Eusapia could not have reached the guitar by any
normal means. H. C, Dec. 7th, 1908.
Note by E. Feilding.
In preparing the report for press I perceive that I wrote no
contemporary note to this seance. I think I shirked it. My mind
was not prepared to accept the phenomena which occurred,
and yet I was unable to suggest any loophole for fraud in the
production of any of them. Re-reading the shorthand report after
this lapse of time, and studying it critically, I can appreciate what
an absolutely different impression it must make on the mind of any
one not present, who is naturally justified in doubting whether,
when some obvious precaution is not mentioned in the report, it
may not perhaps have been neglected.
This seance, although the phenomena were less complicated than
those at later seances, ranks in my memory as among the most remark-
able of the whole series. We were still fresh at the game, still alertly
suspicious of every movement of Eusapia; somewhat annoyed, to
speak frankly, at our failure to detect any fraud at the first seance,
and determined to get even with her. We tied her feet, and then
presently forgot that we had tied them, and to judge by C.'s somewhat,
elaborate note at 11.19, did not even remember it the next day. This
attitude of suspicion must be read, therefore, into the report, which
of itself, as a complete record of events, is very imperfect.
As it is inevitable that critics will talk of excited and emotional
witnesses, I should like to state that throughout the whole series of
seances it was only on two occasions that I experienced the slightest
emotional thrill. The cause of the second of these occasions was the
phenomenon occurring at 12.11 a.m. in the sixth seance; while the
cause of the first was the plucking of the guitar string during the
seance under consideration. The matter itself was simple enough,
yet it was precisely one of the things which one knew could not
happen, but which did. E. F., Feb. 9th, 1909.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance III. :J7o
Remarks on Seance III.
November 26th, 1908.
For this seance we had prepared an apparatus, referred to in
the report as the " stocks," with a view to preventing the
fraudulent use of the medium's feet in levitating the table. A
reproduction of a photograph of this apparatus is given
opposite. It consisted of two wooden tubes, shaped like
inverted cones, into which were inserted the legs of the table
at the end at which the medium sat. The tubes were joined,
at the bottom, by a board which rested flat on the floor, and at
the top, by another board so placed as to go over the medium's
knees when she sat at the table. The lower board extended on
each side so as to enable one leg of the. chair of the sitter on
either side of the medium to be placed upon it. The conical
shape of the tubes permitted the table to tilt fairly freely.
It is evident that as the medium could not get her feet
under the legs of the table, nor her knees either against the
legs or, owing to the upper board, against the top of the
table, it was impossible for her to levitate it fraudulently with
her feet or knees, except in one way, viz. by sitting very low
in her chair, thrusting her legs far under the knee-board of
the stocks, and kicking upwards in the middle of the table.
This would involve a form of acrobatic contortion which would
not only have been very obvious, but was of a kind to which
the robust physique of the medium certainly did not appear to
lend itself. While, however, effectively eliminating leg action, the
stocks, we found, facilitated that of the hands, since a direct
pull at the front of the table caused its legs to slide along
the sloping sides of the conical tubes and produced a bad
imitation of a total levitation.
A change was made in the lighting arrangements by the
fitting up of a group of four electric lamps hanging in the same
position as the original lamp. By means of a commutator
standing on the shorthand writer's table, the light could be
successively reduced from the ordinary light of the room
down to a rather faint glow.
The programme of phenomena at this seance consisted of
levitations of the seance table ; movements of the curtains
touchings and pullings of the sitters as if by an unseen hand
376 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
coming from behind the curtain ; movements of objects inside the
cabinet, including the upsetting of the small table within it, and
levitations of the small table while standing outside the curtain.
Owing to the poor light that prevailed during a great part
of the seance the conditions were not nearly so satisfactory as
those of the first two seances. Further, during the darkness, the
medium twice effected the substitution of hands detected at
the Cambridge sittings and elsewhere. A discussion of this
apparently fraudulent action will be found in the notes
following the shorthand report.
Levitations of the table were far fewer than at the previous
seances, the table remaining motionless for long periods
together. Whether or not this was due, as at the time wo
supposed it was, to the use of the stocks, it is impossible to
say. It may, however, be remarked that at several of the
later stances, though no stocks were used, there were scarcely
any movements whatever of the table, the phenomena appear-
ing merely to have progressed to another part of the programme.
At this seance the most frequent phenomena were movements
of the curtain, which began after about a quarter of an hour,
in the faintest of the four lamps, which, however, was still
bright enough to enable us to see the grain in the wood of
the table. These movements followed one another rapidly from
10.3 till 10.13, when the light was turned out, leaving only the
photographic lamp on the stenographer's table. After a few
more movements of the curtain the light was further reduced,
at 10.24, by shading the photographic lamp on to the steno-
grapher's book, leaving the faintest possible illumination, just
enough to distinguish the whereabouts of the medium's face.
Just after 10.27 she made the substitution of hands
already referred to. This was immediately detected and
protested against. After touches on F.'s side and hand, the
medium gave warning that something was going to happen,
and asked for careful control. The table was then completely
levitated (10.52) under what appeared to be unimpeachable
conditions. Owing, however, to the state of suspicion into
which we had been thrown by the fraud referred to above,
and to the poor light, we were not at the time impressed.
The upsetting of the small table within the cabinet, at
10.55, must be regarded as non-evidential owing to the
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance III. 377
shorthand report omitting to state whether the control had
been relaxed during the moment of rest immediately preceding it.
At 10.56 C. was pulled on the sleeve at a time when
both hands are accounted for separately, while the light was
sufficient for the head to be clearly distinguishable. At 11.2
the medium asked for No. 4 light to be turned up again,
and shortly afterwards asked for her feet to be held under
the table by F., M. taking his place meanwhile. Two complete
levitations of the table immediately followed. At the time
we attributed her wish for a change merely to a hope that
she would find M. a less experienced controller.
At 11.30 the medium, apparently realizing our dissatisfaction,
asked for her hands to be tied to those of the sitters on either
side of her. Further movements of the curtain and, after the
light had been further increased to the No. 3 lamp, touches on
the sitters continued unchecked, and at 11.45 there occurred an
outburst of phenomena of various kinds at once, accompanied
by the typical muscular contractions which we began to notice
that the medium usually exhibited either shortly before or
at the moment of production of her strongest manifestations.
These contractions consist of strong pressure of her hands on
those of the sitters, or of spasmodic movements of her feet
and legs, accompanied by those of the sitters under the table
in front of her. The effect is as though muscular pressure
produced a discharge of some kind of energy which took effect
on objects at a distance from her. We have never been
able to trace any normal physical connection between these
movements and the phenomena which are precipitated by them.
At 11.50 the small table from the cabinet emerged and
attempted to climb first on to C.'s chair and then on to
the seance table ; but the control is inadequately stated in the
report, though a note made by the shorthand writer shows
that the conditions of light were sufficient for him to see the
position of the medium's hands as well as her feet under the
table. A series of movements of the small table followed,
including several levitations, but the control of the medium's
left foot was felt by C. at the time to be unsatisfactory. His
note, as well as F.'s, on this subject should be referred to.
It seems possible, in the light of subsequent experience, that
the unsatisfactory impression made upon us by this seance was
378 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggcdly, and H. Garrington. [part
clue chiefly to the attitude of extreme hostility into which
we had been thrown by what we believed to be the fraudulent
conduct of the medium in the early part of the seance, and
to the fact that the light was so much less good than at the
previous seances.
No deliberate conscious fraud was proved, and the utmost
that can be said is that, taken by itself, the seance must be
regarded as inconclusive.
A group of four clear glass electric lights has been arranged in the
same position as the single burner in the previous stances, and by
means of a commutator, the, light can be varied through lamps of
110, 150, 3:?0 and SJ/,0 volts, the current being 110 volts. These
lights will be referred to throughout the stance as Nos. 1,2,3 and 4-
Also, a new j^otogrcqjhic lamp with cylindrical red glass shade has
been 'provided, throwing a more brilliant light in cdl directions.
The seance tabic is placed in the "Stocks" apparatus {see photo-
graph, p. 375).
9.49 p.m. Stance commenced. F. on left of medium, C. on right.
Shorthand Report of Seance III.
November mh, 1908.
Present—F., C, and M., shorthand writer.
Light I.
M
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance III. 379
[Light I.]
M., the shorthand writer, sits at another table, being himself about
three feet distant from the end of the stance table furthest from the
medium.
F. and C.'s chair-legs arc placed on the lower board of stocks.
9.5-4 p.m. Medium taps three times on the table, three raps in
the wood of the table follow, her hands being apparently quite
motionless on the table.
9.55 p.m. Medium taps three times on the table and three raps
reply.
[We did not care to interrupt the proceedings in order to
control the raps. F. and C, Nov. 25/08.]
Light II.
9.56 p.m. Light No. 2, and light from next room through crack
of door ajar about three inches.
Light III.
9.57 p.m. Light No. 3, also 'photographic lamp; door shut.
F. I have asked medium to try and make me feel some raps on
my hand, and she replies that there is too much light.
Light now lowered to lamp No. If., photographic lamp shaded
so as to throw light only on to M.'s book.
Light IV.
C. The light is still sufficiently good to enable us to see the
whole of the medium's body clearly.
F. And the grain in the wood of the table.
M. notes :
" 1 can see the three figures perfectly, except black of
clothes."
C. The medium removes our two hands from the table and places
them on the board running above her knees, her hands being
betu'ecn this board and the table.
10.00 p.m. F. Her left foot is on my right foot.
C. Her right foot is on my left foot.
380 E. Feilding, W. W. BaggoMy, and H. Oarrington. [part
[Light IV.]
10.2 p.m. F. My right hand is now over Iters.
C. Mine is under hers. Medium asks whether control is good.
10.3 p.m. F. The medium is holding my right hand out towards
the curtain.
C. With her right hand she grasps mine under the table.
F. She made a gesture towards the curtain and nothing happened ;
she then made another and the curtain jumped out.
10.6 p.m. F. She holds my right hand again towards the
curtain, and after two or three movements apparently of some-
thing inside the curtain, the curtain comes out towards my
hand.
[It looked as though a hand were moving about inside the
curtain, which eventually pushed it out. F., Nov. 27/08.]
F. She holds my hand again towards the curtain, and after a
moment the curtain comes out about six to eight inches.
[Whenever the medium holds our hands towards the curtains, it
is always about in a line with her head, and the spot on which
the curtain bulges out is just opposite. Usually about a foot
intervenes between her hand and the curtain. F., Nov. 27/08.]
10.7 p.m. Medium asks for careful control.
10.9 p.m. F. She holds both our hands up in the air in
both of hers and makes a big gesture and—nothing happens.
She makes a second gesture and the curtain moves on my
side.
10.10 p.m. F. The curtain blows out again.
C. The curtain blew out about two feet. She is holding my
left hand on the table with her right, which is clearly visible.
F. She has mine upon hers all the time.
C. The table tilts up away from her, with her right hand
only on it.
F. I am holding her left hand.
C. The curtain blows out a foot, my left hand held out by
her towards it while she makes a pulling movement.
lix.] Sittings tvith Eusapia: Seance III. 381
[Light IV.]
F. She asks me to' make gestures by myself.
C. The mediums hands are clearly visible, although not touching
ours.
F. She asked me to make a motion towards the curtain with
my hand free. I did so, and the curtain moved. She then took
hold of my wrist and the curtain came out and touched me.
10.11 p.m. F. asks '"John" to touch him.
F. The curtain is coming ri™ht out.
F. " John, touch me."
C. The table tilts up to the left, her right hand being about
two inches above the table.
10.12 p.m. F. The curtain then came out about three feet.
C. Quite slowly.
F. Her feet are motionless and her chair is quite visible, and
I can see the whole of it.
[During the above curtain phenomena the control of the feet is
not given, but as the light was sufficient for us to see the whole
of the medium, right down to the floor, it seemed unnecessary to
state that the movements of the curtain were not produced by her
feet. Moreover, the curtain invariably bulged out as though pushed
from inside at about four feet from the floor, and did not present
the appearance that it would have done if it had been pulled by
a string from outside. F. and C, Nov. 27/08.]
Light V.
10.13 p.m. Electric light turned right out. Only 'photographic
lamp on M.'s table, being left, not shaded.
F. I can see her face, hands, eyebrows, and the different colours
of her hair [which has white streaks in it].
M. notes :
" / can just see the three heads and the two hands
nearest me."
C. She holds my left hand tender the table.
382 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light V.]
10.15 p.m. F. She holds my hand towards the curtain, and
the curtain comes right out and is touching my hand now, I
cannot feel anything resisting inside.
10.18 'p.m. C. At this moment the medium is holding both our
hands on the board vith her two hands, and she showed us by
raising our hands that toe were held by two different hands.
F. Which we can also sec anyhow.
F. She holds her hand and mine to my side and makes three
gestures, raps follow somewhere. She holds my hand again
towards the curtain and the curtain again blows out.
F. " Touch me John " severed times.
F. She takes the curtain in her hand and holds it right out.
C. And then lets go.
F. Holding my left hand all the time.
C. Her right hand is now holding my left hand, on the table.
10.22 p.m. M. notes :
" She asks whether feet are still well controlled.
F. and C. reply, '
yes!
"
F. I can feci the heel of her left foot.
C. I can feel the toe of her right.
[The obvious implication from this description, the insufficiency
of which was realized at the time, is that the same foot was holding
both of ours. Owing to the fact that our feet were on opposite
sides of the table, however, we feel tolerably sure that such was not
the case. F. and C, Nov. 27/08.]
Light VI.
10.24- P-m-
Fight still further reduced by shading photographic
lamp so as to throw light only on to M.'s booh.
C. d can still clearly see the medium's head.
F. I can only see the white of her face.
M. notes : "I can sec nothing at edl except just the white edge
of the table nearest me, distant about three feet from me."
ltx.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance III. 383
[Light VI.]
10.27 p.m. F. She is showing which hand is now held by me
and, which by C.
F. Medium makes three gestures with the right hand and nothing
happened,
C. The curtain blows out ou the table.
F. For the hrst time the right hand curtain blows out on
the table.
N.B.—C. My left hand was not property held, and I am perfectly
certain that there was a substitution of hands.
F. explains to medium that control teas not good.
[This is the first time in any of the seances where even an
attempt at substitution was made. During the first two seances
the light was always sufficient to enable us to see both hands
clearly. This time I saw the medium push her right arm into
the cabinet, grasp the curtain and pull it out over the table. The
difference between this and the other curtain phenomena was very
clear to me on whose side it occurred. C, Nov. 27/08.]
10.32 p.m. F. Something has touched me on my right side.
C. The medium held my left hand in her right, above the table,
and made three movements in the direction of the curtain.
F. She held my right continuously in hers.
10.33 p.m. We have now verified by touching the feet with our
hands that the feet touching ours are separate.
10.35 p.m. The medium asks whether, if the table were to levitate
now, we should consider the control good.
10.37 p.m. F. She again asks us to control her feet carefully.
F. Her left foot is quite clearly on mine.
C. The medium is holding my left hand in her right hand
on the table, under the curtain of the cabinet which has remained
out over it.
10.4-0 p.m. C. asks F. if the leg of his chair is still on
bottom board of stocks.
F. " Yes."
384 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light VI.]
F. asks " John " several times to touch him.
10.45 p.m. F. My hand was touched about two feet away from
the cabinet.
(J. My left hand was held by her right about an inch above
the table.
10.53 'p.m. Medium says, "Look out, I feel that something is going
to happen."
C. She pi^csses on my foot.
Complete levitation of the table, about 18 inches.
F. And I can see something. I saw something black, apparently
just touching the edge of the table.
[A filmy black thing seemed to me to shoot out (horizontally
from the medium, F., May 2/09), and touch the edge of the table
near C. It was a very fugitive glimpse. F., Nov. 27/08.]
C. My left hand was held by her right hand on her right knee.
F. My right hand was held by her left on her left knee, the
fingers being around it. No question of substitution.
M. asks "Were the stocks held?" Reply: "yes."
F. Her left foot was pressing heavily on mine, both heel and toe.
C. Ditto here for right foot.
10.53 p.m. Medium asks to hewc a rest.
10.55 p.m. The table in the cabinet falls over with a
loud noise.
C. Her right hand was held in my left hand under the table
on the board, and she was pressing strongly against my left leg
with her right.
F. Her left hand was holding my right in her lap, and I am
absolutely certain of the whole of her left foot.
10.56 p.m. C. I am pulled by a hand through the curtain. Her
right hand holds my left hand on the board. [The sleeve of
my coat was pulled, near the elbow. C, Nov. 27/08.]
LIX.] Sittings ivith Eusapia: Seance III. 385
[Light VI.]
F. She kicks my right foot about with her left foot. She holds
my right hand in her left hand in her lap, and calls my attention
to a black shadow .near C, which I do not sec.
C. I am again pulled by a hand.
F. She asked me again if I saw nothing, but although I could
see the red lit door between C. and the curtain, looking in front
of her, I could not see anything. [A visible object touching C.
from the cabinet would have crossed this red lit door (the shining
wood of which reflected the red light of the lamp) and ought to
have been perceived b}^ me. F., Feb. 10/09.]
10.59 p.m. Medium, "See! I do this" (making gestures).
C. I can hear noises in the cabinet as though something were
softly moving about.
[it sounded to me as though a kitten or a small dog were
moving about inside it. C, Nov. 27/08.]
C. Medium is holding my left hand continuously with her right.
I have my thumb under her ringers, holding it on the board.
F. She is holding my right hand. Control is perfect.
11.3 p.m. Light No. If.. F. and G. change places. F. is now
to right of medium, G. to left.
Light IV.
Medium's chair is about a foot from the curtain.
11. If.
p.m. Medium asks F. to remove his right hand.
2b
386 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington, [part
[Light IV.]
11.6 p.m. Medium asks M. to take place of F., asking F. to hold,
her feet under the table, which is done.
Complete levitation of table about eight inches.
The following notes are therefore made by M. from memory
immediately on resuming his position :
F. holding feet under table.
M. Left hand held by medium's right flat on her lap (right thigh).
C. I am holding her left hand in my right on left thigh, my
hand entirely encircling hers.
11.20 p.m. Medium asks for a few moments' repose.
About half a minute after this, 2nd levitation of the table about
eight inches ;
disposition as before.
M. remarks " It seems strange that this levitation sltould take
place just after medium had asked to rest, and consequently
our attention had been relaxed, which mine certainly was."
M. resumes position at stenographer s table. F. resumes his
position on right side of medium.
E P.
11.36 p.m. F. says to "John" that lie has already made three
levitations, and that he might try something else.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance III. 387
[Light IV.]
11.30 p.m. Medium asks us to tie her hands.
While M. is searching for cord, the curtains blow right out.
11.34 t° 11-36 p.m. Hands are being tied. [Her hands were tied
to F. and C.'s left and right hands respectively, leaving a play
of about 1 foot between her hands and ours. ¥., Feb. 11/09.]
11.36 p.m. F. Medium holds both our hands towards the
curtain. Her left hand held C.'s. Her right hand free except
for the cord.
11.37 p.m. Electric light accidentally turned full on.
Light I.
M. notices curtain bulging right out to table.
C. and F. were looking towards light.
Light turned down again to No. 4, M.'s lamp being shaded
on to his book.
Light IV.
C. I am touched on my right side.
C. My right hand is holding medium's left hand on the table.
My right foot is pressed by her left foot under the table.
F. Her right hand made two gestures with mine about two feet
away from the cabinet, her right foot held on mine.
C. I could see medium's right hand making these gestures up
and down above the table.
11.41 p.m.. Light changed to No. 3.
Light III.
C. I am touched on my right side.
C. I am holding medium's left hand firmly on the table with
my right hand.
F. I can see between C. and the curtain, but could not see
anything touching him.
388 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Oarrington. [part
[Light III.]
C. I can see both hands all the time and the outline of her
body.
F. I could see her face both times during the touches. Her
foot is absolutely tight on mine.
11.45 p.m. The tambourine in the cabinet rattles after three
distinct movements.
C. While that was going on, I was holding medium's left hand
over the table with my right.
Medium says, " Oh, la, la, la
!
" several times, and then suddenly
the table in the cabinet falls over and the things on it fall to
the floor with a crash. Tambourine strikes several times.
F. She was holding my right hand all the time.
C. I am touched on my right arm.
C. Medium holds my right hand in her left all the time ; her
left foot pressing on my right foot.
C. Touched again on my right arm.
0. She presses four times strongly with her finger on my hand.
F. Her right foot on mine cdl the time and kicking about, her right
hand pressing on mine.
C. The medium presses her left foot on my right.
Loud noises in cabinet as though objects were moving about
within.
F. She is kicking about under the table with her right foot.
[The above series of phenomena took place so rapidly, like a
kind of feu de joie, that it was difficult to describe the control
throughout. The final description of the foot control, when one
foot was stationary while the other moved about seems to make it
clear that the two separate feet were held. F. & C, Nov. 28/08.]
11.46 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
F. Her right hand was free, but still bound to mine and visible
above and off the table.
11.50 p.m. She makes gestures towards the cabinet, which are
followed by movements of the instruments inside cabinet.
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance III. 389
[Light III.]
Medium tells F. to make gestures with his free hand, which
he does, and noises inside the cabinet follow them irregularly.
C. The small table is coming out from under the curtain on
my right, legs first.
C. One leg of the small table has climbed up on my chair.
[Here again the phenomena followed so quickly that a descrip-
tion of the control was impossible. We can only say that it
seemed adequate at the time. F. & C, Nov. 28/08.]
Light IV.
M. I can see everything very clearly.
F. So can I.
C. So can I.
Noises again follow gestures made by F.
The small table attempts to climb on to the seance table, and
falls back.
M. notes: "I can see all the hands over and away from the
table, and her feet."
Things in cabinet move about violently and with great com-
motion.
F. Feet are all right.
11.51 p.m. C. In good light I can see the small table moving
towards me, the result of my making movements towards it
with my right hand.
C. The medium's left hand is holding my right hand and clearly
visible. She is pressing on my right foot with her left foot.
F. Her right foot is firmly fixed on mine. I have just verified
with my hand that her two feet are apart.
Medium asked C. to lift tip the smcdl table and put it v/prighi,
which he does. The smcdl table now stands completely out of the
cabinet [to the left of the medium. F., Feb. 11/09].
390 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light IV.]
11.53 p.m. Complete levitation of small table.
C. My right hand being on the surface, her left being upon
mine, her foot was pressing strongly on mine. The table is raised
about a foot in the air.
F. Her right foot is pressing on mine.
11.57 p.m. C. She puts her left hand on my right, which rests
flat on the top of the small table, and the table again rises a
foot in the air.
C. Her foot is still strongly pressing on my right.
F. Her right foot is still pressing on mine. Her right hand
is visible close to me, in mine.
G. I now ascertain that there is no string or connection between
the medium and the small table.
11.59 p.m. C. The distance between the small table and the d'uss
of medium appears to me to be about a foot.
12.00 p.m. Medium makes various gestures to and fro over the
small table, and the table follows them backwards and forwards
three or four inches.
C. Her left hand now rests on the small table on mine.
Medium lifts my hand and makes pulling movement in the air
about six inches above it. The table follows. The medium's
foot still strongly pressing on mine. The table moves several
inches on the floor, and a complete levitation to the height of
one foot in the air follows.
C. My right hand was resting on its surface, the medium's hand
on my hand.
1*2.1 a.m. C. Her foot strongly pressing on mine.
F. Her right foot strongly pressing on mine right over this end
of the table, and her right hand on mine.
[Notwithstanding that the notes appear to show adequacy of foot
control, I had an impression, throughout all these levitations and
other movements of the small table, that my control of the left
foot was not satisfactory. The genuineness of the above series
depends entirely on the adequacy of the control of the left foot.
On all previous occasions when the control is stated to be good,
LIX.] Sittings with Eusa/pia : Seance III. 391
[Light IV.]
the whole of the medium's foot was felt. During these phenomena,
however, only the toes of the foot were felt, and not the whole
foot as before. C, Nov. 28/08.]
Here M. had to leave. It was explained to the medium that the
control of the foregoing phenomena had not been considered satis-
factory. She thereupon said that she would like to repeat them.
See C.'s note below.
Note by H. Carrington.
A complete description of our third seance is extremely difficult.
Not only were the phenomena of a somewhat different order, but the
whole conduct of the seance was altered. Further, our subjective
sensations—the whole atmosphere of the seance —were entirely different
from those which we experienced on the two previous occasions. On
looking back on this seance, I cannot help feeling that some, at least,
of the phenomena were genuine, —notably the blowing of the curtains.
But on the other hand, I must record the fact that the seance reads far
better than it appeared to me at the time. Throughout the whole of
the latter part of the seance, we were certainly dissatisfied with the
phenomena and the control, though the notes would not seem to
indicate this, I, especially, was dissatisfied with my foot control,
and there seemed to me to be a long continued effort on the part
of the medium to substitute one foot for the other. Also, on two
occasions, there were perfectly clear substitutions of hands, followed
in one case by a fraudulently produced phenomenon which was
obvious to me, on whose side it took place. The difference between
the apparently genuine and the spurious phenomena struck me very
forcibly at the time, and I felt that it would be quite impossible to
confound the two.
The seance was, on the whole, a bad and disappointing one.
In the first place, the medium insisted on almost total darkness
during the greater part of the seance, whereas she had permitted
very good light on both the previous occasions. In the next place,
she held our hands under the table instead of upon its surface, as
during the former seances. The position of the hands was often
the most favourable for substitution. Moreover, the whole bearing
and manner of the medium were different. Instead of her usual
languid condition, she remained, during the time of the suspected
392 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, mid H. Garrington. [part
phenomena, quite bright and energetic, with no tendency, apparently,
to go into trance, and was not in the least fatigued at the termina-
tion of the seance, as she had been on the two previous occasions.
My own impression is that she was endeavouring to see how far she
could carry fraud without detection, —to "test" us, in fact, —and to»
ascertain whether it would be necessary to produce genuine phenomena
in the future. That, of course, is a mere supposition. But it is
interesting to note in this connection that Prof. Morselli also dis-
covered fraud during his third sitting.
Throughout the seance, the control of the left foot was not perfect.
Towards the end three complete levitations of the small table took
place, my hand resting fiat upon the surface of the table, and the
medium's hand just touching it. The small table stood to the left
of the medium and only about a foot away from her. It was,
however, too dark to see whether her foot touched it or not. 1
I
pressed down firmly with my right hand, but the table went up in
spite of this. The upward pressure must have been considerable.
When pressing downwards, I noticed that the upward pressure
came from the leg of the table nearest the medium, and not from
its centre.
At the same time it is difficult to conceive how she could have
reached so far with her left foot unperceived, and it is especially
difficult to conceive this in the third levitation, when both our hands
were completely removed from the table. It then appeared to rise
up all by itself, and with no visible contact. We subsequently
ascertained by experiment, that it was impossible (for us) to levitate
the small table in this manner by one foot alone and without the
assistance of the hands. During the above manifestations and
immediately before them, the medium kept asking me if my foot
control was good. I invariably replied that it was ; and it was very
good, at those moments. But during the actual levitation of the table,
the control became very poor, and I could only feel the pressure of
the toe of her foot. At this point the regular seance ended, and
M., the stenographer, left.
We explained to the medium that the control of the left foot
had not been good, whereupon she immediately insisted on re-
peating the experiment. She made me put my right foot across
the toes of both her feet, and her left hand was held in my right,
her right hand was held by F., and her head was clearly visible.
The medium kept raising each foot in turn under mine, saying,
1
On account of the shadow thrown by the seance table. —F., Feb. 11/09.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance III. 393
" One, two ;
one, two," as she raised them. Yet despite all this, I
did not feel that the control was perfect. She would count and
raise her feet several times, and then, suddenly, I would feel only
one foot, the right, and the left foot would be missing. I replied
to her question by saying that the control was not good, whereupon
I immediately felt both her feet under mine again. This happened
several times. It seems only fair to add, however, that muscular
movements almost invariably take place during the production of
large phenomena, and these, when occurring in good light, have
evidently no direct physical bearing upon their production. It is
perhaps unfair to assume that they are necessarily evidence of fraud
merely because they happen in the dark.
No movements of any evidential value took place, and after about
ten minutes of futile attempts the seance was abandoned and the light
turned up. The net result of the seance is to leave on my mind
the impression that very skilful trickery had been employed at various
times, but that fraud alone could not account for all the observed
facts, while it seems absolutely inadequate to account for the pheno-
mena in the former seances, which appear to me as remarkable as
ever. H. C.
[The above note is undated, but was written within a day or two
of the seance.]
Note by E. Feilding.
On reading through, last night, the translation of the shorthand
notes of the third seance, we were both surprised to find what an
entirely different impression we had retained of what had taken place
from that which we derived from the notes. All the more remarkable
manifestations had receded in our memory, driven back by the
certainty that the medium had been detected in fraud ; and if, before
reading the notes, we had been asked to give an account of the
seance, we should certaiidy have said that it had been almost barren
of results. This seance is largely of the same character as those
of the Cambridge series. The light was, during a great part of it,
very poor ; the control of the feet was difficult ; and her hands
were often invisible, and in a position where substitution would be
possible.
Further, the medium frequently resisted our attempts to hold
her hands properly ; and whereas, in the former stances, they had
been almost constantly in view, or firmly grasped in ours, during
394 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
much of the third seance they were for ever moving about furtively
in and over our hands, apparently seeking any opportunity that
might be presented to get free. The shorthand notes do not show
this, for while these manoeuvres were going on nothing happened,
as will be seen from the long periods which elapsed without the pro-
duction of any phenomena,—notwithstanding the occasional outbursts
resembling a feu de joie at a firework display. On two occasions she
succeeded in freeing her right hand. Only one of these appears in
the notes, for though the release of the hand was each time perceived
at once by C, on whose side it took place, he preferred to watch
events silently ; as on the first occasion it occurred no phenomenon
followed it.
The introduction of the stocks apparatus had also a marked
effect on the behaviour of the table. This, during the first two
seances, had been in almost constant movement, and levitations, whole
or partial, had followed one another closely. During the third seance,
on the other hand, it remained motionless for long periods together,
and the impression upon our minds was that the use of the apparatus
had floored the medium. The notes, however, show that several
complete levitations did, in point of fact, take place, which cannot be
accounted for by any substitution of hands. Substitution of feet,
even if it took place, could not have assisted the production of a
levitation of the seance table guarded as it was by the stocks; besides
which, two levitations took place while I held her feet and could see
her knees under the table. The only other conceivable method by
which the table, under the conditions, could have been lifted, would
be by a hook under the skirting board that runs round the top of
the table. A pull diagonally upwards with a hook so placed would
have the effect of steadying the front legs of the table against the
stocks, and would raise all its four legs from the ground. The
obvious suggestion that Eusapia uses a hook can, however, only be
made by some one who has not assisted at her better stances, and
is of a cast with most of the other suggestions made by absent critics
of her more remarkable phenomena. She certainly used no hook in
the two previous seances. The conditions of light at the third were
so bad that I cannot affirm, with certainty, that she did not use
one then, and I prefer to come to no conclusion as regards these
levitations.
There remain the touches on my hand and side, and the pulls on
C.'s sleeves; also the movements of the curtain, the noises within
the cabinet, and the levitations of the small table. The fraud and
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Stance III. 395
the constant apparent attempt at fraud which had been noticed had
so affected our minds that we had completely forgotten a great por-
tion of these until we read the notes. It appears from the notes,
however, that only the levitation of the small table can be accounted
for by any manoeuvres of substitution, whether of hands or feet.
If we assume, therefore, for the present, that genuine phenomena
exist, the conclusion to be drawn from the third seance appears to be
that to which many other observers have previously come : namely,
that on certain occasions Eusapia seeks to produce simple phenomena
by the easiest method,—fraudulent substitution, —and when prevented
from doing so, succeeds in producing far more difficult ones by
some means unascertainable.
E. F., Nov. 28th, 1908.
Supplementary Note by E. Feilding.
On re-reading the foregoing notes while preparing the report
for press, I wish to state, in fairness to Eusapia, that in the light
of subsequent seances, I, personally, am now disposed to give an
entirely different interpretation to the incidents of this one. It is
nevertheless a satisfaction to me that these notes exist as a record
of our critical, indeed hostile state of mind. The first two seances
had in fact left no enduring mark upon us. They had astonished
us, puzzled us, vexed us. They had shown us that the problem
presented by Eusapia's phenomena was not the simple matter
which, before we witnessed them, we had, in the invincible conceit
of every new critic of such things, supposed it. Conviction is,
after all, an emotional and not an intellectual process; and the
impression left by the first two seances was purely intellectual.
The ordinary effect of the sudden confrontation of a fairly balanced
mind with a merely bizarre fact is a reaction : the mind rejects
it, refuses to consider it. And the more bizarre the fact, the
stronger the reaction. If the possessor of such a mind were, for
example, in the course of a walk down Piccadilly, to see a
policeman levitated across a motor omnibus, no permanent impression
as to the mutability of the laws of gravitation affecting policemen
would remain with him. The emotional certainty produced by his
long continued previous experience that policemen do not do
such things would be stronger than any degree of intellectual
certainty that this particular policeman did, and would presently
efface it. And so it was with ourselves. Tables, we knew, or
396 E, Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
thought we knew, do not go into the air by themselves, curtains
do not bulge out without some mechanical agency ; and although
we saw them do so, we still refused to believe that they did.
We preferred to believe that we had been deceived in some way
unknown, that we had been hallucinated, or had wrongly observed.
We doubted our senses rather than our experience ; were guided,
in fact, by our emotions rather than our observation. Hence, at
this seance we hailed with a kind of relief the fact that Eusapia
had been caught substituting one hand for the other, and we
regarded all the incidents that followed through the atmosphere
of suspicion which this discovery had fortified. The result was
that not only did we colour up certain possibly quite innocent
actions into almost clear evidence of fraud, but certain other
interesting and indeed inexplicable phenomena, such as the outburst
at 11.45, occurring in light III. which ensured the absolute
visibility of her head, while her hands were bound and her feet
separately accounted for, passed out of our memory completely.
Let me now consider the fraudulent action which produced on us
such marked psychological consequences and see what it really
amounted to. She approached her hands to one another, used
part of her left hand held imperfectly by me to cover part of
C.'s hand, raised her right hand from his and lifted it aver her
head to touch the curtain. C. not only heard the action by the
cracking of her dress, but saw it. If the action was fraudulent in
intent it was remarkably ill-done. She then replaced her hand ;
and presently again removed it, took hold of the curtain to her
right, and pulled it, very obviously to C. (though not to me, as I
was on the other side of her) over the table. We at once told her
that she must not do this kind of thing and during the rest of
the seances she apparently did not again attempt it, except on two
occasions, once in the 11th seance, when, after making a similar
substitution, she removed her left hand, in a light good enough
to enable me (sitting on this occasion to her right) as well as
the lady controlling on her left, at once to see it, waved it
slowly in the air towards the curtain, and returned it; and once
possibly in the 4th, in complete darkness, when I am not certain
that in fact she did do it, and when, in any case, no phenomenon
accompanied it.
We subsequently observed that it was a habit of hers occasionally
to wish either to touch the curtain, or to put it over the seance table.
With the exception of the cases above mentioned she invariably either
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance III. 397
asked permission to do so, or called our attention to the fact that she
did do so, a fact, for the rest, which was anyhow quite sufficiently
obvious. I cannot explain why she wished to do these things, any
more than I can explain many other items in her procedure, such
as why she should wish to have a table, or why she should require
a curtain at all. I find, in talking with friends, that when I
mention the curtain, they inevitably say, " Ah, a curtain ! Why
a curtain'? What a suspicious fact!" I agree that it may be
suspicious, but it is not necessarily so. It is suspicious when
used by a materializing medium who goes behind it, and, when a
"spirit" comes out, refuses to allow spectators to ascertain whether
he is himself still there. But in Eusapia's case, where she sits
outside it, I cannot see that, given certain obvious precautions,
it is necessarily suspicious. She says it helps to "concentrate
the force." Perhaps it does. I do not know what the "force"
is, nor what it requires to "concentrate" it. Nor does an}' one
else. To a person ignorant of photography it is possible that
the use by the photographer of a black cloth over his head
would be suspicious. In dealing with an unknown force one can
only judge empirically of the utility of certain conditions. That
the curtain does have some bearing on the phenomena is clear,
as nearly all of them seem to radiate from behind it. Eusapia
appears to be en rapport with something within. And she constantly
seems to experience the necessity of establishing this rapport by
momentary contact with the curtain or by enveloping the table
or part of herself in its folds. We never perceived, however,
that the phenomena which followed this action had any normal
relation to it whatever. I have come, therefore, to feel it possible
that, so far as our own series of experiments is concerned, the cases
of hand-substitution practised were innocent in intent, though
fraudulent in appearance ; that she wished to do what, after
obtaining our previous consent, she otherwise frequently did, —touch
the curtain or pull it over the table, —and did it, half automa-
tically and without consulting us, though without any intention of
producing a spurious phenomenon. It is necessary to say that never
once, in the course of hundreds of phenomena, did we detect a single
case of undoubted fraud, and it is my personal belief at present that
though there were many phenomena which must be classed as non-
evidential, there were in fact none which we should be justified in
thinking to be probably spurious. I do not know how far C, who
is now in America, or B., will endorse this opinion. But I think
398 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Cwrington. [part
it probable that C. will now admit that in his above note to
this stance, in which he contemplates the possibility of Eusapia
having produced the levitations of the small table with the foot
which he was intently attempting to control, he did himself
injustice as an observer ; as he must also admit that in writing
that the 'greater part of the s6ance took place in almost total
darkness,' when as a matter of fact the darkness only endured
for 38 minutes (10.24 to 11.2) out of a period of more than
two hours, he did so under the influence of the psychological
impression produced by Eusapia's behaviour rather than in accordance
with the exact facts.
E. F., Feb. 12th, 1909.
Supplementary Note by H. Carrington.
A few additional words are necessary from me in reply to F.'s
note.
One of the most essential things to learn in connection with
Eusapia's sittings is that there is on the medium's part a constant
semi-automatic attempt to produce phenomena, which, if checked and
controlled, will result merely in a synchronous movement of the
hands or feet ; but which, if allowed full play, will result in an
automatic movement, which might well be mistaken for conscious
fraud. That was the interpretation we put upon all such actions
of hers in our early stances, —perhaps naturally enough. Looking
back on the seances in the light of what I can only think a fuller
knowledge of the medium and her phenomena, I must say that I
am disposed to construe these acts of hers in very much the same
way as F. ; and that I now consider my earlier hyper critical attitude
unwarranted. Having heen convinced by later seances that genuine
phenomena do unquestionably take place, I think it probable that
many of the earlier phenomena, put down by us as " non-evidential,"
were in point of fact genuine. Still, of course, for purposes of con-
version, the phenomena must be regarded as valueless, and cannot
be taken into account when discussing the seances.
Briefly, then, I wish to say that I am now disposed to retract
and repent my earlier critical, indeed hostile attitude; and think
that we should all have obtained better and more conclusive pheno-
mena had we been less severe with the medium, and known better
how to conduct her seances. When one is convinced of the reality
of the phenomena, the fascinating study of their causes, nature and
Lix.] Sittings with Easapia: Seance IV. 399
conditions becomes possible. That is the point from which I should
now stud}' the facts, were I again to observe them. But at the
period under review, we were still uncertain whether such facts
occurred at all, or whether they were one and all produced by fraud.
H. C, May 23, 1909.
Eemarks on Seance IV.
November 29th, 1908.
Although the stocks apparatus in use at the last seance
had rendered impossible any action of the medium's feet or
knees in levitating the table, it did not exclude action of the
hands, assuming that she could succeed in freeing them, or the use
of a hook attached to her body and bearing under the skirting
board round the top of the table. In fact, the apparatus had
the effect of actually facilitating a total levitation, if either of
these suppositions be granted. In order, therefore, still further
to obviate the necessity of continuous control, and to meet
possible objections that it had not been efficient, we pasted
newspaper round the front and part of the sides of the table,
1
reaching from the top to the knee board forming the top of
the stocks, and also fastened Eusapia's feet to and between the
stocks, leaving a play of about 3 to 4 inches laterally. In
these conditions it was impossible to lift the table except by
the use of both hands, one on each side of the top ;
in other
words, except in the way in which a table might ordinarily
be lifted, or by thrusting one hand below the line of paper
inside the tube of the stocks and seizing the leg, an easily
detected manoeuvre.
There were present, besides C. and F., Professors Bottazzi and
Galeotti of the Naples University, Signor De Santi, a friend
of Eusapia's, and Signori Morelli and Falanga, two friends of
his invited in accordance with the circumstances described in F.'s
note below. At the beginning, C. controlled on the medium's
left ; F. on her right. Eusapia showed much dislike to the
precautions taken and especially to the paper. She also seemed
in bad health, and in the early part of the seance coughed
constantly. The table movements for a long time were feeble
and non-evidential, except one tilt at 9.39 p.m. which was
1
See photograph, p. 375.
400 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and If. Carrington. [part
without contact and in good light. The light was constantly,
either in obedience to raps asking for less light or at the
medium's request, lowered down and up again, during the first
25 minutes, and was eventually, at 9.54, reduced to nothing-
except the shaded photographic lamp on the stenographer's
table, i.e. practically complete darkness. Shortly afterwards she
asked F. to change with Prof. Bottazzi. Then followed a
complete levitation. It is unfortunate that owing to the general
conversation which constantly went on at this seance, the notes
fail to report the position of the medium's right hand, though
Prof. Bottazzi always expressed himself satisfied with his control.
The prevailing darkness renders the evidence for this and a
subsequent repetition of the same phenomenon unsatisfactory.
Having performed two levitations, Eusapia showed her annoyance
at the paper by tearing it, and the table was reversed. She
then made C. and Prof. Galeotti change places.
Except as taken in conjunction with others held under better
conditions, the first part of this seance, by reason of the dark-
ness and the insufficient reporting of the control, must be dis-
regarded for evidential purposes, though an exception may fairly
be made for certain individual phenomena, e.g. the appearance
of something white in better light at 10.55 p.m. and 11.2:
the transportation of the small table from the cabinet over the
medium's shoulder partly on to the seance table at 11.9 p.m.
The action of head and hands is clearly eliminated by the
control described: the left foot alone remains as a possible normal
agency, the feet having by this time been released. Owing to
the balance and weight of the table, it seems to us, after practice,
an impossible feat to perform in this way, even supposing that
Prof. Galeotti could fail to notice the removal of the left foot
from his right, and the strong effort necessary to put her foot
behind her chair between the curtains and raise the table so
high witli it. The improbability of this is also greatly increased
by the fact that the small table was lifted in this way three
times in seven minutes.
At 11.35 Prof. Bottazzi and also Eusapia's friend and the
two gentlemen who accompanied him left. F. resumed control
of the medium's right, Prof. Galeotti remaining on her left.
Then followed some very prolonged and remarkable partial
levitations of the table, of which, however, on account of the
ltx.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance IV. 401
poor light and the possibility of at least some of them being
merely effects of balance (though, at the time, this certainly
appeared not to be the case), we prefer not to offer any
opinion. A very remarkable complete levitation under appar-
ently perfect conditions of control, while C. was under the
table holding the medium's feet, her hands being well accounted
for, and all standing up, occurred at 12.5 a.m.
At 12.9 an apparent attempt to make a substitution of hands
is reported. F. was, however, by no means sure of this, and
nothing followed. Shortly afterwards, but under conditions of
apparently complete control, Prof. Galeotti experienced a series
of touches. The head control is, it is true, not mentioned, but
we are convinced that these touches were not and could not
have been thus produced, the position of the medium's head
being, even in this faint light, clearly visible. At 12.16 a
partial levitation of a remarkable kind took place, and at 12.18
a series of movements in the cabinet followed by an attempt
of the tambourine to jump from the floor to the medium's
right on to F.'s lap, which appeared quite unaccountable by
normal means. After a further series of movements of objects
in the cabinet, the seance ended about 12.35 a.m.
Shorthand Report of Seance IV.
November 29th, 1908.
Present : Eusapia. C. to left of medium. F. to right.
To right of E., Prof. Bottazzi, and Signor De Santi sitting away
from table. Signor Ecdanga at end opposite medium.
To left of C, Prof. Gcdeotti and Signor Morelli. M. at short-
hand table as before. Lights as at Stance III. except as noted in
shorthand report.
Small table placed behind curtain with various objects on it
guitar, tambourine, flageolet, toy piano, etc.
The legs of the medium are fastened very securely by a rope
between the stocks, with no play except two or three inches laterally
between the stocks. A newspaper has been fastened around the
table over the top, down as far as the upper board of the stocks,
so as to render absolutely impossible the use, either of a hand
or a hook or wire, for the levitations of the table.
2c
402 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
9.30 p.m. Stance begins.
Small
Curtain.
E. P.
F.
Prof. B.
De S. •
C. \%
Prof. G
Mor.
Fal.
9.31 ip.m. Light II. Then light I., plus crack in door.
Light I.
9.34- P-m- Medium is apparently not in good health, and is certainly
in a bad temper. She suffers from violent jwi'oxysms of coughing.
Various raps of an interesting but non-evidential character', owing
to the fact that her hands were on the table.
9.37 p.m. Note by M. " I cannot see feet." [Prevented by the others
who sat between him and the end of the table. F., Nov. 30/08.]
9.38 p.m. More raps of a non-evidential character.
9.39 p.m. F. The table tilts towards me.
C. No one's hands were on the table at the time.
9.40 p.m. F. More non-evidential movements.
9.41 p.m. F. Various tilts, but all these are non-evidential.
942 p.m. Light III.
Light III.
9.44 p.m. More movements, still non-evidential.
9.44- P-m-
Light II. with crack in door and photographic lamp
unshaded.
LIX.] Sittings tvith Eusapia: Seance IV. 403
Light II.
9.4-4-2 P- m-
Light III. with crack in door and photographic lamp
unshaded.
9.45 p.m. More slight movements, still non-evidential.
Note by M. " I can just see the mediums head, and can see the
table and all the other heads plainly."
9.4-6 p.m. Paps ask for less light. Medium will not allow it.
9.4-7 p.m. All sitters move back from table.
F. Medium asks if she may touch the curtain, which she does
with her left hand, C.'s right being in hers.
9.51 p.m. C. More slight movements of non-evidential character.
9.53 p.m. No electric light, crack in door shut. Photographic lamp
shaded.
9.54-2 P-m- Medium asks F. and Prof. Bottazzi to change places,
which they do. C. retains control of left side.
Light III.
9.4 8 p.m. Light IV.
Light IV.
Light IV.
De S. • Mor.
Fal.
9.55 p.m.
1/09].
No light except photo, lamp [heavily shaded. F. Mar.
404 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
Light VI.
9.58 p.m. Note by M. " / can see nothing!'
0. I hold medium's left hand securely on the table in my right
hand.
Prof. B. I have my left hand on medium's knees.
Partial levitation of the table [lasting for some time. F. Mar.
1/09].
F. There is no contact with any one along this end of the table.
C. I move her hand to and fro across the table, showing that
her left wrist is not pressed upon the table.
F. I have felt all along the edge of the table and there is no
contact with any of the sitters. The right furthest leg of the table
is now also off the ground.
Complete levitation of the table.
[Having been removed from the place of controller of medium,
I occupied myself with guarding the end of the table furthest
from medium. The levitation, which began with only a tilt off
two legs, then off three, and finally became a levitation of all four
legs, lasted long enough for me to be able to pass my hand several
times around the furthest end of the table and down the legs and
verify that there was no contact with any of the sitters. Of this
I am certain. F., Nov. 30/08.]
[Owing to general confusion, the shorthand report fails to indicate
the position of medium's right hand. F. and O, Nov. 31/08.]
10.6 p.m. F. Complete levitation of the table.
C. Of a non-evidential character.
10.7 p.m. Various tilts, still of a non-evidential character.
Medium teetrs the paper pasted round table.
She asks for more light.
10.5 p.m. Light No. IV.
Light IV.
10.10 p.m. Medium says, '
This paper is antipathetic to me,"
and the table is accordingly turned round so that the ends are
reversed.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Stance IV. 405
[Light IV.]
Light No. IV. shaded by two thicknesses of thin brown tissue
10.12 p.m. Medium asks G. to change places with Prof. Galeotti.
F. In the -present condition of light I can see both the hands
and the face of the medium clearly.
G. So can I.
10.16 p.m. Medium asks if she can touch curtain again, which
she does, holding Prof. G.'s hands.
10.17 p.m. She makes gestures and raps follow.
10.18 p.m. Raps ask for less light. No electric light, only
photographic lamp.
Note by M. " / can hardly see anything at all. I can just see
the edge of the table nearest me."
G. The medium's left hand is held on her knees.
[Being no longer in control of the medium, we had to ascertain it
from controllers, and dictate as best we could, through the general
confusion, to the stenographer. As two or three of the sitters talked
incessantly, it was extremely difficult to get these notes correctly
reported. Further, the controllers but rarely stated what the control
was, and we almost invariably had to question them to ascertain
the particulars. F. and C, Nov. 30/08.]
paper.
Light IV.
Fal.
Light V.
406 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light V.]
10.25 'p.m. Prof. G. I have the medium's left hand in my
right hand.
Prof. B. The medium says that the curtain is moving.
F. But it is too dark for any one to see.
Prof. B. My left hand is on legs of medium and my right
hand on right hand of medium all the time.
The curtain has blown out over the table.
Prof. G. I have the curtain on my rigid hand in which I hold
her hand, she makes movements with her fingers.
F. Her head is invisible to me.
Prof. B. I have my head touching the head of the medium.
Prof. G. I was touched through the curtain on my right arm.
10.27 -p.m. Medium says that she wants to release her feet, which
have become numb. Medium's feet are therefore released, having
been found still firmly secured, by F. and G.
F. The medium makes movements in the direction of the curtain
with her right hand, and nothing happens.
G. (to Profs. B. and G.) How far apart are your hands'?
Prof. G. I do not know.
G. Medium's left hand is held on the table by Prof. G.
F. ascertains that right hand is also properly held.
Prof. G. Tlds hand is all right.
10.32 p.m. F. The medium makes gestures with Prof. B.'s hand
up in the air.
Prof. B. I have the right hand of the medium in my left hand,
up in the air.
Prof. G. I hold the hand of the medium in my hand in the
middle of the table.
Things tumble about on small table in cabinet.
Prof. G. The medium has her foot on my foot.
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance IV. 407
[Light V.]
Prof. G. Something touched my arm. Something has moved
under my chair. Something has again moved under my chair.
Prof. G. She holds my fingers well.
10.37 p.m. F. Note that the position of heads is unknown. [A Iso
position of right foot not stated. F., Mar. 10/09.]
Mote by M. " Medium gasps and moans."
Prof. B. I have been touched on my left shoulder.
C. to Prof. B. Can you see her head 1
Prof. B. No.
10.39 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
Prof. B. The table is coming up, right hand held as before.
Note by M. "Medium taps violently with her feet."
Light [? IV.]
[It is evident from M.'s and G.'s remarks just below that the
light was here raised, but in the general confusion the fact
failed to be noted. F., Mar. 1/09.]
Another complete levitation of the table.
Prof. B. Medium's right hand was on my shoulder.
Prof. G. Medium's left hand was on the table.
Note by M. The table rose up about two feet away from
medium.
10.41 p.m. Note by M. "Medium turns towards the curtain and
says " Andiamo," (" come along ") and I could see the curtains
part in the middle."
F. The medium places the curtain over her left arm.
O. Both hands are noiv visible : also her head and face are
clearly visible.
10.50 p.m. Light turned up. [We again failed to note the
degree of light. F., Mar. 1/09.]
408 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
Light [? III.]
10.51 p.m. Medium asks for a rest.
10.55 p.m. Prof. B. She is still holding my hand.
Prof. G. A white thing came out.
F. A white thing shot out from the cabinet on the window side
of the curtain [i.e. behind Prof. G.] bringing the white window
curtain out with it, and then shot back again very rapidly.
[I saw this hand. G, Nov. 30/08.] [Query, a hand? F. ?
Mar. 1/09.]
[The light was good enough to enable me to see this clearly
from the other side of the table, i.e. about 4- or 5 feet from
the window curtain. F., Mar. 1/09.]
Prof. G. My right hand was held by medium's left on the board.
Prof. B. I am holding her right hand close to my corner of the
table.
11 p.m. The medium asks if she may touch the small table.
11.2 p.m. Prof. G. I saw a white thing come from the curtain 7
near the floor.
At G's request G verifies that medium is now holding G.'s hand
on the board under the curtain [which was over her left arm].
Prof. B. I am holding medium's right hand on the table.
11.3 p.m. F. The medium releases her right hand and raps
with it on the sm,all table inside the cabinet.
11 A p.m. F. She makes gestures with her right hand, and
the small table moves a little.
Prof. G. My hand was held by her left hand all that time, on
the board.
11.9 p.m. F. The little table jumps strongly out from between
the curtains right on to the left corner of the seance table, and
remains there.
Prof. G. She is holding my right hand very tight.
F. Was her arm^motionless 1
Prof. G. Yes.
F. Her head was quite visible to me. Her right arm was on
Prof. B.'s shoulder.
ijx.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance IV. 40f>
[Light ?IIL]
F. All the time while we are talking the small table has been
hanging on the left-hand corner of the seance table. In reply
to my question as to what is supporting it Prof. G. says
" Nothing."
11.11 p.m. About two minutes afterwards it falls bach.
F. She pushed it and it fell down to the floor.
11.13 p.m. Note by M. " I set the small table upright, meantime
feeling all around it, and found no attachment of any hind,
and replaced it about six inches away from medium!'
F. The small table has again jumped on to the left-hand corner
of the seance table.
Prof. G. She is holding my hand very tightly.
F. to Prof. G. Is your arm supporting the table now %
Prof. G. No ;
just touching it.
F. Her right hand is visible on the table ; her head is visible.
F. Noiv the table has fallen down again after being up for
about a minute.
11.14 p.m. F. The small table is again coming up.
F. The medium's right hand is holding Prof. B.'s hand visibly above
the seance table.
11.16 p.m. F. The small table has again jumped on to the
seance table.
11.20 p.m. F. to Prof. G. "Are your hands still on the board?"
[The knee-board of the stocks was hidden from me by the table.
F, Mar. 10/09.]
G. "Yes."
F. Her face was quite visible all the time.
Prof. B. I was holding her right hand.
[On being questioned further to-day about this series of pheno-
mena, Prof. G. insisted that his arm did not support the small
table whilst it was apparently hanging on the corner of the
seance table, and that while so hanging it appeared to be con-
stantly trying to push itself further up. F. and G, Nov. 30/08.]
[In spite of the fact that Prof. G. says that the small table
was not resting on his shoulder, I found, during the second levitation,
410 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light ?IIL]
after ascertaining that the legs and feet of the table were free
from support, that the top of the table was clearly supported by
the seance table and the shoulders of the medium and Prof.
G., as, on passing my hand between Prof. G.'s shoulder and the
top of the table, I found that there was considerable pressure
exerted by the table upon Prof. G., and when this apparent
support was removed the table fell to the floor. C, Nov. 30/08.]
11.35 p.m. F. resumes his position, and Prof. G. retains control
of left. G. to G.'s left. Stocks are removed from the table and
all the other sitters leave except Prof. G.
c.
F. Her right hand is holding my left hand.
Prof. G. Her left foot is on my rigid foot-
No electric light, and only night light in photographic lamp.
Light V.
C. Tilts of table resumed, interesting but non-evidential.
F. Various interesting tilts, which, owing to the bad light, must
be considered as non-evidential.
Long rest, during the whole of which the medium was, how-
ever, under our constant supervision.
11.55 p.m. F. The medium has drawn the curtain to the right
and dropped it partly across her chair.
11.57 p.m. Medium and all sitters stand up and the table tilts
on the two legs furthest from her and remains in that position
for a considerable time, during which
F. My left hand is outstretched and between the medium and
the table, the top of which was only just touched with the tips of
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance IV. 411
[Light V.]
her fingers. I am passing my right hand around the rim of the
table. I have put my hand completely under the leg of the table,
and I am pressing down against the table with the medium's hand
in mine. It twirls about on one leg, I am pressing with considerable
force. [And it resisted my pressure for some considerable time.
F., Nov. 30/08.]
\G. now went under the table to hold mediums feet. F., Mar.
10/09.]
C. under table.
12 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
The table falls back and again raises itself up in the air on
one leg.
F. Medium's hands just touching the top, and she is standing up,
and I can see them.
C. I now grasp both her two feet in my two hands whilst under
the table. [I was constantly moving my head to and fro along the
rim of the table so that, had the medium introduced a hand or other
means of attachment underneath the table, I must have felt it with
my head during one of these movements. C, Dec. 1 /08.]
F. Her hands are fiat on the top of the table. Only the fingers
are touching now, and sometimes she takes off one hand and
sometimes the other so that only one finger touches it at a time.
Now both hands are right off the table and the table falls
back. I pressed against it, and it resisted for about two seconds.
[My impression is that this partial levitation on one leg lasted
for about a minute, and that it was not merely balanced on one
leg. F., Dec. 1/08.]
C. I am holding her two feet in my hands.
412 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light V.]
12.5 a.m. Complete levitation of the table.
C. I hold both her ankles with my two hands.
F. I was holding her right hand in the middle of the table.
Prof. G. I was holding her left hand on the rim of the table.
F. Prof. G.'s left hand was on my right hand [across the table].
12.7 a.m. Note by M. "Large movements of the table, I can
just see the table up in the air."
[After this, I believe I noticed an attempt at substitution of
hands, from which, however, nothing followed. F., Dec. 1/08.] [I
mentioned this at the time but it was not noted. F., Mar. 1/09.]
F. She has now put both her legs astride around my left leg.
C. The table tilts on the two legs furthest from her.
I
F. My hand is with hers against the corner of the table, her
hand being over my hand. The table stands up on the two legs
farthest from the medium, and the table legs do not touch her.
My arm is between her and the table. [She stood at arm's length
from the table. F., Dec. 1/08.]
Prof. G. I was touched on the back of my hand, and on my
arm.
F. I am holding medium's right hand on mine just on a line
with medium's waist about three feet away from Prof. G.
Prof. G. I was holding one finger of medium.
Prof. G. I was touched on the back of my hand, and a second
touch on my arm near the shoulder.
F. I am absolutely certain of the foot-control.
12.13 a.m. F. The table is up on its two legs all this time.
F. (to Prof. G.) Is your hand resisting on the table 1
Prof. G. Yes.
F. I am pressing down against the table. The table falls. [It
is quite possible that this long partial levitation which lasted some
3 or 4 minutes may have been, and doubtless in part was, a kind
of "Annie Abbott" effect of balance. F., Dec. 1/08.]
F. She was riding cock-horse on my left leg all the time with
her two feet on each side of my foot.
LIX.] Sittings ivith Eusapia: Seance IV. 413
[Light V.]
Prof. G-. I have been touched on my back.
F. I am holding her right hand in the whole of mine.
Prof. G. She was holding my left hand.
12.16 a.m. C. resumes control of left side of medium.
C. I am now holding medium's left hand securely in my right.
C. The table is going up on its two legs furthest from me.
C. I am holding medium's hand over the table.
F. I am standing entirely between the medium and the table.
C. My right leg is between the medium and the table.
F. The medium still cock-horses on my leg.
G. noiv goes beneath the table and grasps the medium's ankles
in his two hands.
Prof. G. resumes control of the left side.
G. I am securely holding the medium's two ankles in my hands.
F. Now her right hand has just touched the table, my arm is
between her and the table.
Prof. G. Her left hand is off the table entirely.
12.17 a.m. Medium says she is tired.
414 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light V.]
[Meantime the table has fallen bach, but it is not reported in
the notes, Dec. 1/08.] [Apparently a levitation of some kind
had occurred but was not noted. F., Mar. 1/09.]
12.18 a.m. Medium now sits down.
G. She puts her left foot on my right. [Meantime C. had
resumed his position. Dec. 1/08.]
F. And I have her right foot on mine outside the table leg.
Movements of objects in cabinet.
C. I was firmly holding medium's left hand on the table.
F. She holds my finger towards the curtain.
G. I am now holding mediums left hand on her left thigh.
0. Movements in cabinet.
C. The medium had her left foot on my right foot and
kicked it about, asking me to let my foot accompany it.
Movements in cabinet.
C. She had her left foot on my right motionless.
Movements in cabinet again.
F. She is still holding my right hand miles away from C.
C. Her left hand is on her thigh.
F. Her foot is well to the right outside the leg of the table.
12.22 a.m. Movements in cabinet.
C. I am holding medium's left hand on the table, with mine,
firmly. Left foot on mine motionless.
F. Medium's right hand on my left, and I can feel the thumb
all the time. Her right foot was kicking about with mine.
lix.] Sittings with Eusa'pia : Seance IV. 41 5*
[Light V.]
Small table in cabinet falls over.
F. As she kicks with her right foot on mine.
12.23 a.m. F. The tambourine has jumped on to my left knee
[and fell down again. F., Dec. 1/08].
C. Medium held my right hand firmly and raised it towards
the cabinet.
F. Her foot was still on mine.
[The tambourine had been lying on the floor. F., Dec. 1/08.]
Medium says she is tired.
0. I am touched on the right arm.
C. I am holding medium's left hand on the table by the thumb
and wrist. I was touched on the hip. Her left foot was on mine.
F. I could see her face.
F. Medium now takes both my hands.
F. The small table has come up near my lap.
12.85 a.m. G. Medium holds all our hands in both Iter hands. Her
left foot is on 'my right. Her left arm rests on my right arm.
With my right hand I am also holding mediums left hand.
F. I am sure of her right foot.
12.27 a.m. G. Her left foot is now on my rigid, firmly.
F. And her right foot is on my left foot.
12.28 a.m. Movements in cabinet.
0. With her left hand medium holds my right about a foot
from the table.
12.30 a.m. Medium says she wants to rest; an intermission of
about two minutes.
12.32 a.m. Things in cabinet move about.
F. The small table falls over to my left.
416 E. Feilcling, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light V.]
[There is evidently a lapse in the notes, as it is not stated how the
small table had got upright again. I think I must have inched it
up when it approached me. F., Mar. 1/09.]
F. Her right foot is absolutely certainly on my left foot. I am
holding her right hand motionless on the table.
C. Her left foot was thoroughly on my right foot. Her left
hand was held by my right about two feet above the table, and
she made a gesture with it in the direction of the small table,
which was on her right side.
[I think that the small table must have been within reach of
her elbow, but I felt absolutely no motion of her arm. F.,
Dec. 1/08.]
Note by H. Carrington.
The general impression left on my mind by this seance was one
of uncertainty and general irritation, due more, however, to the fact
that we were not ourselves controlling during the actual production
of the phenomena than to the character of the phenomena themselves.
Had we been controlling, we should certainly have considered the
seance a remarkable one ;
but, absurd as it may appear, we did not
feel the same degree of confidence in the results as if we had been
controlling the hands and feet ourselves. Doubtless this was partly
due to the extremely poor light upon which Eusapia insisted ;
partly
to the difficulty of extracting descriptions of the control from her
holders ;
partly to the constant talking of one or more of the other
sitters, who sat at the far end of the circle. It is perhaps excus-
able that under these conditions, we should not feel the same degree
of confidence in the results as we might otherwise have done.
Some of the phenomena that took place at this seance, especially
towards the end, were certainly remarkable. It is of great interest
to note that all the best phenomena were obtained after Eusapia's
friends had left, and when only Prof. Graleotti and F. and myself
remained. When F. and I were controlling the right and left sides,
respectively, the very best phenomena of all took place. It is
hardly necessary to point out that such a state of things is precisely
what we should not expect, had the medium resorted to fraud, or
had her friends been in collusion with her. Under the very best
conditions of control the veiy best phenomena of all occurred. This
would seem to confirm most strongly the conclusion to which I
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance IV. 417
have been driven by a study of Eusapia, viz. : that so long as
suspicion of the medium's honesty is not openly manifested, the
closer the contact and the more perfect the control, the better will
be the results. H. C, Dec. 7th, 1908.
Note by E. Feilding.
If Eusapia's psychology is a puzzle to us, we find that our own
is scarcely less so. The mythopoeic tendency of the mind appears
to act with us inversely. Instead of the marvellous becoming
exaggerated in our memory, we discover that the slightest unfavour-
able elements tend to obliterate the recollection of it altogether.
For this reason, except for the evidence of the notes, the fourth
seance has left in our minds no enduring impression of any
phenomena of interest whatever. The reason for this is as follows :
Eusapia had told me that if we really wished to see higher
manifestations of materializations, etc., we should have to provide
ourselves with a larger circle, and should include in it someone
who was accustomed to her methods, who could direct the seance and
could supply the necessary sympathetic "current." She mentioned,
as one possessing a " current " beyond reproach, a friend of hers, a
chemist, who would, if asked, bring two of his friends, in conjunction
with whom surprising results had been obtained. Her argument
was this : If full materializations took place, while we should
sacrifice proper scientific control of the minor phenomena, we should
be favoured with evidence of such a kind as would obviate the
necessity of detailed control altogether.
We accordingly visited the chemist to make a preliminary inspection.
He proved to be a person of cultivated intelligence, and appeared pos-
sessed of a thoroughly reasonable temper. He said that while he thought
it would be better that we should first come to some conclusion as to
the possession by Eusapia of some supernormal gifts by experiments of
our own, and alone, he would be quite willing, if we wished him to do
so, to come himself and to bring his friends, and see if he could assist
in the production of the " higher phenomena." Under the glamour
of his account of these, we decided to set aside scientific caution
and accept his offer, and we further invited Professors Bottazzi and
Galeotti, Professors of Physiology and Pathology respectively at the
Naples University, who had conducted, with the utmost scientific
elaboration, a number of sittings with Eusapia, and were much
interested in her case. We thus had an addition of five to our
usual number.
2d
418 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [pakt
After a short time Eusapia requested the Professors to undertake
the control in our places. Owing to their unfamiliarity with our
method of dictating, and to a natural hesitancy in doing so in
a foreign language, but owing chiefly to the loquacity of the
chemist's two friends, who talked loudly throughout the sitting,
and to the fact that the light was lowered gradually to the merest
glimmer, the shorthand writer was presently reduced to a state of
despair, ourselves to one of exasperation. The table had been
placed in the stocks, Eusapia's feet tied elaborately, paper had been
so adjusted at her end that a fraudulent levitation seemed impossible.
In the course of the seance Eusapia complained that the paper
worried her, and the table was accordingly turned round. Of course,
we regarded this as suspicious : we again believed we had cornered
her. The discord of the proceedings was complete, and at their
termination we were fully under the impression that practically
nothing had occurred, until after the departure of all except Prof.
Galeotti, when many remarkable levitations followed one another
rapidly. On reading the notes we were greatly surprised to find
that two full levitations of the table had taken place before it was
turned round. For strict evidential purposes, these levitations, owing
to the presence of Eusapia's friends, should perhaps not be relied
upon. I have every reason, however, both ocular and experimental
and otherwise, for believing that these gentlemen were in no way
concerned with the production of these phenomena. It is also
noteworthy that, with the exception of these two levitations and
those of the small table, all the more interesting phenomena took
place after their departure.
Nevertheless, not only for strictly evidential purposes, but also
so far as the progress of our own convictions, in whatever direction,
is concerned, I fear that we must write down this seance as wasted.
E. F., Dec. 4th, 1908.
Remarks on Seance V.
December 2nd, 1908.
This was the first seance attended by Baggally, who had
come out from England in consequence of a telegram inviting
him to do so. At the request of the shorthand writer, Meeson,
the attendance of Mr. Gibson, a friend of his, resident in
Naples, hitherto unknown to the medium, was also invited.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance V. 419
In order to provide a more gradual diminution of light, and
to lessen the chances of having to sit in almost complete dark-
ness, as had occurred at the 3rd and 4th seances, a new lighting
arrangement was adopted. The original No. I. light, (i.e. the
ordinary light in the room, which during seances I. and II.
had been shaded with 3 thicknesses of tissue paper, and
at the 3rd and 4th was not used at all), was discarded,
and in its place the former jSTo. II. light, shaded with one
thickness of tissue paper, was substituted. The light was some-
what less than the former No. I. thrice shaded, but it was
still possible to read the Baedeker and Italian dictionary at
our places at the table, though with some difficulty, while from
the furthest end of the room, distant about 13 ft., the face of a
person and its varying expression, closing or opening of eyes,
etc., was distinguishable. The No. II. light was the former
No. III. (see Seance III., p. 378). Nos. III. and IV. were two
ruby glass bulbs of 110 and 140 volts respectively. The
medium objected to the red glare of the former, and it was not
used at this seance, while light No. IV. which prevailed during
a great part of the seance, gave a light sufficiently strong for
C, seated about 4 feet from the medium, to see her features
distinctly.
No apparatus to guard the table was used, nor was the
medium tied in any way, yet there was only one total levita-
tion of the seance table, and that a non-evidential one, towards
the end of the seance. The phenomena were of a different
class, and showed a progression.
From 9.50, 6 minutes after the seance began, till 10.37,
there was a series of partial levitations of the table of a very
remarkable character, often very prolonged, the table rising on
one or two legs, frecpiently without any contact on the part
of the medium, and remaining tilted at an angle, sometimes
resisting downward pressure of considerable force, against which
it rose in an elastic kind of manner. See the shorthand report,
especially at 10.32, when C. was holding the medium's feet
at her request (she having apparently become annoyed at his
obviously suspicious attitude) under the table.
From 10.37 to 10.44 a series of movements of the right
curtain occurred: hitherto, except on the occasion at Seance III.
when the medium herself pulled the right curtain over the
420 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
table after making substitution of hands, it had always been
the left curtain which moved.
From 10.5 'J onwards there were a series of movements of
the small table and of other objects behind the curtain, cul-
minating at 11.8 by the small table striking B. on the
shoulder and upsetting completely, the medium being rigorously
held, visible and motionless.
At 11.10 an entirely fresh phenomenon occurred, viz. the
appearance over the medium's head, from between the two
curtains, of a hand, dead white in colour. It came somewhat
slowly out, palm downwards, then clenched its fingers and
withdrew again between the curtains, the medium's own hands
being held separately and distinctly by B. and F.
At 11.18 a black head with large features shot rapidly out,
apparently from the further side of the right curtain.
At 11.22 the small table in the cabinet again began to
move, and presently came over the medium's right arm and
landed on the seance table, both the medium's hands and legs
being under control and her head visible.
At 11.28, the small table having been replaced on the floor
by C. outside the curtain to the left of B., it made a series
of movements fully described in the shorthand report, which
should be referred to.
At 11.38 another new phenomenon occurred, viz. the pro-
duction of something solid and tangible within the curtain,
like a hand, which, while C. held his own hand against the
curtain two feet above the medium's head, pressed against it
from within, at intervals through a space of about 10 minutes.
The medium, while this was going on, was lying, apparently
in a state of deep trance, in F.'s arms, and her hands were
held separately by F. and B.
At 11.51 the small table, which had receded again behind
the curtain near B., to the right of the medium, was suddenly
levitated over her head and came down on the seance table
to her left, between her and F., her hands being held, her
legs and feet separately controlled, and her head visible and
motionless.
At 12.03 a further series of partial levitations of the seance
table, including one total levitation under not very good
evidential conditions, occurred, and the seance terminated at
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance V. 421
12.12. At its close, the medium appeared extremely exhausted,
and remained for some time in a semi-trance-like state. During
this, she called attention to a breeze, which apparently issued
from a scar under her hair on the left side of her brow. Of
this singular incident a fuller description will be found in the
shorthand report and in the notes.
Shorthand Report of Seance V.
December 2nd, 1908.
Arrangement of objects in the cabinet: Small table, standing.
Little stool to left and behind medium in cabinet. Tambourine
on floor and to left of medium. Plate of wetted clay on floor
and to left of medium, both inside the cabinet. Bell hung up
on wall by a string at a distance of 6' 2" from floor inside
cabinet in the middle slightly to the left. Another tambourine
hung up on wall about 6" 6" from ground inside cabinet (right
side) with the guitar hung on the left side of cabinet at a
distance of 6" 0" from the ground.
Light 1, being the former Light 2 [i.e. 150 volt, white], shaded
with one thickness of thin tissue paper. Light 2, being tlie
former Light 3 [i.e. 220 volt, white}. Light 3, a new 110 volt
ruby glass lamp. Medium does not like this light [ivhich gave
a brilliant red glare]. Light 4, a new 150 volt ruby glass
lamp.
A red electric lamp, closely shaded so that no light falls on
the medium and hardly any into the room, has been obtained
for the stenographer in place of the photographic lamp.
At a distance of 13 feet, using Light 1, F. can distinguish the
kind of expression on the face of a person sitting in the mediums
place. There is less light titan at the first seance, but we can
still read the Baedeker and the dictionary.
Present: F., C, B., and Gibson. M., stenographer, opposite
medium, at separate table.
The use of the stocks has been discarded. Use of newspaper on
big table discarded. Chairs are all straw-seated. [Hitherto
only the medium had had a straiv chair. She said it ivas
desirable that no stuff chairs should be used.]
422 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Positions.
9.44-
r
p-m- Seance began, Light 1. Medium's feet are not bound.
She did not look into the cabinet on entering room.
Small /\
Curtain.
B.
M
Light I.
9.50 p.m. F. Movements of table begin. Eaps on the top of
the table.
9.52 p.m. Medium made three gestures over table and three
raps followed.
F. Her left foot is on my right, and not touching the leg of
the table.
C. Right foot on my left, and not touching the table.
[Medium's right hand was under mine under the table. I felt
slight movements of her right hand, possibly sufficient to account for
these raps. C, Dec. 3/08.]
9.53 p.m. Table tilts towards C.
C. The table tilts on the two left legs. I press down firmly on
the table, which refuses to go down for some time.
F. Her left hand was on the left corner of the table, free
my right hand was on her two knees. Her left foot on my right
foot.
10.5 p.m. Four raps meaning "Talk."
10.13 p.m. Light 2 and ill's light.
LIX.] Sittings 'with Eusapia : Seance V. 423
Light II.
10.13 p.m. Table tilts towards F.
F. I am pressing clown on the table and it resists in an elastic
kind of way,—and about three seconds afterwards the table fell
back.
F. I have her left foot quite clearly. My right hand was
underneath the left leg of the table. There was contact with the
skirt, but I could put my right hand up and down between the leg
of the table and the skirt.
[I was watching the medium closely while F. was passing his hand
in between her leg and the leg of the table, and noticed that she
seemed to suffer each time F. passed his hand between her leg and
the leg of the table, and drew in her breath cpiickly as though it
gave her pain. C, Dec. 3/08.]
Partial levitation on the two legs away from medium.
F. Both hands were off the table at the time the table went up
and were clenched at a distance of about 3 or 4 inches from the
table, slightly below it. The table remained up and then fell back.
My right hand was on both her knees. I was perfectly certain of
her left foot.
C. I have my left foot on her right clearly. My left knee
pressing against her right.
The table again tilted on the two legs furthest from her.
The same thing is again repeated rather more strongly.
F. I again pass my hand down the left leg of the table, and the
whole of the medium's foot is absolutely on mine.
The table is up again on one foot furthest from medium.
C. I have passed my hand completely between her and the table
leg.
F. So have I.
F. The table is still up and I am passing my hand between her
and the table right down the left leg.
C. Her left hand was off the table and her right one just
touching the top of the table, near the right corner, clenched.
[During all this a perfectly clear space was visible between her
body and the edge of the table. F. and C, Dec. 3/08.]
424 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light II]
1016 p.m. F. The table remained up after her left hand was
taken right off the table and her right hand was clenched and
just slightly touching it in the right-hand top corner.
10.1S p.m. At request of medium C. and B. change places.
10.20 p.m. F. The table is up on its two legs furthest from
medium.
10.21 'p.m. F. Medium makes a gesture, but nothing happens.
10.22 p.m. F. Two more gestures followed by very faint raps.
10.Ho p.m. F. She asks one to put my hands in the middle of
the table while she makes gestures on my right shoulder. She
makes various gestures and grips on my right shoulder. Nothing
happens and she says " Non lo fa." (" He wont do it")
10.24 p.m. The table is now going up.
F. Her left hand is on my shoulder, her right hand off the
table, about two inches above it, and clenched. Her left foot is
certainly on mine and I feel it with my left hand, and my right is
on both knees.
B. My left hand is on her right knee and her right foot on my
left foot. I felt it with my right hand.
[This tilt took place on the two legs furthest from the medium.
F., C. and B., Dec. 3/08.]
10.25 p.m. F. She asks me to let her put her left leg across
my two shins.
The table shortly afterwards went up on the two legs furthest
from her. She removed both her hands. It remained up a
considerable time.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance V. 425
[Light II.]
1 0.2 5 ^ p.m. The same thing has happened again.
F. Her leg is well across my shins.
B. My control the same as before, her right foot on my left foot.
10.26 p.m. The table is going up again.
F. Both medium's hands are off the table. As I am speaking
I am looking under them, between them and the table. Her left
foot was absolutely motionless against mine. My right hand on
her left knee.
B. My control the same as before, I could see under both hands.
C. I saw a clear space under both wrists.
10.27 p.m. The table went up again in the air on the two legs
furthest from her.
F. I put my left hand between her wrist and the table. Her
left hand did not touch the table. Her left foot is firmly on my
right. My other hand was on her knee. The right hand was also
off the table while the table was going up.
B. And during this levitation, my left hand was on her right
knee and her right foot was on my left foot. I could feel it
clearly.
10.32 p.m. At request of medium, C. goes under table and holds
her feet in his hands.
The table goes right up in the air on the legs furthest from her.
F. Her hand was touching the top of the table.
C. I have both the medium's ankles in my two hands and can see
there is about three inches between her skirt and the table leg on
either side.
C. I am now holding her toes instead of her ankles.
426 E. Feliding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light II.]
B. My control is the same as before.
C. I can see controllers on both sides holding her knees with their
hands.
F. Her wrists were just touching the top edge of the table, but
apparently without any force.
C. I can feel the live foot through the shoes and know that I
am not merely holding the shoes in my hands.
Medium asks C. to come out again, which lie does, medium saying,
" I only asked him to do that so that he might see that I did not
lift the table with my foot."
10.33 p.m. The table is up in the air on the two furthest legs.
F. Her foot is undoubtedly on mine, and her two hands were
off the table, about five inches below the rim.
B. Her right foot was also on my left foot and my left hand was
on her ri"ht knee at the same time.
10.36 p.m. Medium makes two gestures, the first of which was
followed by a thump in the table and the second not.
10.37 p.m. She holds her left hand up towards the curtain over
her head.
B. The right curtain bulges out and touches me on my shoulder.
B. Her right foot was on my left foot and my left hand was
on her right hand.
F. Her left foot is firmly on mine. Her left hand is visible on
the corner of the table in front of me. My right hand is on her
left shoulder.
C. Both her hands are motionless and clearly visible to me.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance V. 427
[Light II.]
The rierht curtain goes out again.
o o o
F. At this time my right hand is held in her left. Her left
foot still pressing tightly on my right, and I am certain that it is
her left foot.
B. I am holding her right hand with my left hand on her knee
and her right foot is on my left foot.
10.40 p.m. The right curtain blows out about two feet.
10.41 p.m. B. I felt a strong breeze coming through the curtain
from the cabinet at the moment the curtain was blowing out.
10.42 p.m. F. My control was the same as before, absolutely.
[This breeze was probably produced by the movements of the curtain.
B., Dec. 3/08].
10.44 p.m. Another big bulge of the curtain.
F. Her left hand was on the table at the time and quite visible.
B. Her right foot is on my left. [Her right hand was on my
left. B., Dec. 3/08.]
10.44\ P-m- Medium asks F. to touch the table in the cabinet,
which he does with his right hand.
10.4-5 'p.m. F. Her hand is holding mine on her knee.
The table tilts four times rapidly towards the medium.
B. She was holding my left hand on her knee, and her right
foot was on my left foot. During the movements I did not perceive
her move her hand at all.
F. Control the same as before on my side. My hand was in
her lap, hers holding mine. I am sure that it was her left hand.
B. I am sure that it was her right hand as I was holding it by
the thumb.
IO.47 p.m. Light No. 4.
Light IV.
G. In this light I can see her face at a distance of four feet
clearly. I can distinguish the eyes, ears and nose.
10.50 p.m. F. She has put her left leg on my two knees now.
428 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light IV.]
B. I feel the whole length of her right leg with my leg. Her foot
is on my foot. Her right hand is on my left hand.
10.52 p.m. F. She asks me to put my right hand on her shoulder
and takes my left hand in her left hand on her lap.
Movements of small table in the cabinet.
C. Her left foot, which is also across my right knee, presses
stronErlv.
10.53 p.m. B. Her right foot is on my left foot and I was holding
her right hand in my left hand on my knee.
F. Her left leg was still on my two knees.
C. Her head clearly visible.
F. Her left hand was in mine, my right arm around her left
shoulder.
10.54 p.m. F. She has now taken her leg down off my knees
and put her left foot on my right foot.
10.55 p.m. F. She leans forward over the table. She is enclosing
my right foot right under her chair with her two feet and her
legs press tightly on each side of my leg.
10.57 p.m. B. The curtain is blown over my head.
B. She is holding my left hand with her right hand on the table.
She did not move her hand while the curtain was blown over my
head.
F. Her two legs were still tightly round my right leg and she
was leaning far forward over the table with her head. My left
hand under hers, which held it [on my side of her head. F.,
Pec. 3/08.]
C. I am also holding her left hand with my right. [My right
hand was encircling both F.'s and the Medium's, and I could feel
them both. C, Dec. 3/08.]
10.58 p.m. B. The curtain is still over my hand.
10.59 p.m. Medium now returns her right foot to B.'s left foot
and her right hand, is now in B.'s left hand on the table.
11.0 p.m. F. She holds my right hand with her left hand
back towards the cabinet, pinches it several times and there
are movements as of the tambourine inside.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance V. 429
[Light IV.]
F. Her left foot is pressing strongly all the time and I know it
is her left foot.
B. Her right hand was on the table in mine and her right foot
continually pressing my left foot.
B. She is moving her right leg, with my left leg continuously
in contact with it.
A few slight movements take place in the cabinet.
F. Her left foot was under the table kicking about forwards and
backwards with mine and her left hand is on the table. Head
fully visible to me.
11.4 p.m. F. She played the flute on my little finger, the
thumb on one side and all four fingers on the other, and in
rhythm with it some object moved in the cabinet.
B. Exactly the same control with me as before, only I felt a
rhythmic movement of her leg, synchronising with the movements
in the cabinet.
11.5 p.m. B. She is lifting her foot, but mine accompanies it
at the same time.
F. The back of her chair is almost touching the small table, I
could hardly get my hand between the two. [In order to
ascertain that there ivas no attachment between the medium and
the objects in the cabinet, I had passed my right hand, between
her and them, from her head downwards, behind the back of
her chair to the ground. The medium had receded much further
into the cabinet than in the previous seances. F., Dec. 3/08.]
11.8 p.m. B. The little table struck me under my shoulder
and fell over completely on the right of the medium.
B. At the same moment she was holding my left hand with her
right, and her right foot was resting on my left foot. I felt the
whole length of her leg against my leg.
F. Her left hand is in my left, on the corner of the table. My
right hand across both knees. Her left leg motionless. Her left foot
on my right foot, and I know it is the whole of it. Her head
close to me and motionless, and clearly visible.
B. Her head is visible to me as well.
430 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light IV ]
11.10 p.m. F. I can see a white hand come right out from
the cabinet over her head.
C. I could see the white hand.
[A very white hand came out between the curtains about two
inches above her hair, palm downwards. It moved rather slowly,
then clenched its fingers and withdrew again into the cabinet. F.,
Dec. 3/08.] [C. I agree with the above description. Dec. 3/08.]
[B. and CI. did not see the hand owing to the position of the
right curtain, which was still over B.'s arm. Dec. 3/08.]
[It was a right hand. F., July 20/09.]
F. I am holding her left hand visibly on the corner of the table
in my left. The control of her left leg being the same as before.
B. I am holding her right hand with my left hand and her right
foot is on my left foot, and I am feeling the whole length of her leg.
11.13 p.m. F. Her left hand is on her lap with my right.
11.14- P-ni. F. I have gut both hands of the medium.
11.16 p.m. F. She pinches my right hand ivith her left hand
on her lap.
11.18 p.m. F. I see an extremely black thing come right out.
B. My right hand control was perfect.
F. Her left hand was in mine on the table.
F. It came out about three feet from the medium's head. The
medium's head was resthm on mine. She told me to look in a
particular direction first of all, and said that I should see a head.
The black thing was the profile of a head, and it came out to
within about two inches of B.'s face.
[The thing I saw appeared like a grotesque face with a Jewish
nose, i.e. not the least like the , head which C. saw during the
second seance. It gave me the impression of a flat thing, rather
than of a solid head. It shot rapidly out, apparently between
the right-hand curtain and the door, went within two inches of
B. 's hair and then withdrew. F., Dec. 3/08.]
C. I saw the head just disappearing into the cabinet.
B. I could not see the head because it appeared from behind
the curtain on the right [and consequently behind B.'s line of
sight. F., Mar. 1/09].
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance V. 431
[Light IV.]
11.22 p.m. B. The small table is moving.
F. She squeezed my right hand at the time with her left hand,
on her lap. Her left foot quite clearly on my right.
B. Same control of foot as before.
B. The small table rises and touches my elbow.
B. I am perfectly certain that her right hand is on my left hand
on the table, and I can feel the whole length of her leg.
B. The small table is again moving ; same control.
F. My right hand was on her two knees, and her left hand in mine
and visible, and close to me; legs both firmly between B.'s and mine,
and I have felt their position with my hand.
11.25 p.m. The small table is rising again.
11.26 p.m. The small table is levitated right on to the seance
table, through the curtains, between B. and medium. It rose
to a height of 2h feet from the floor, and is now resting on the
seance table.
[The small table which had been in the cabinet was levitated
from behind the right curtain, between it and the door, and came
over the medium's right arm and my left arm, the legs resting
on my arm and the medium's. It seemed to make successive
efforts to get well on to the seance table. B., Dec. 3/08.]
B. My control is perfect ; the same as before.
F. Her left hand is right over this side of the table and visible.
Her head close to me and visible. My right hand on both her knees
as before.
11.28 p.m. G. stands up ami leans across the stance table and
takes the small table and puts it bach on the floor.
icith hand on small table.
432 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light IV.]
C. Oh ! As I put it clown it was jerked up forcibly about
G inches, levitated and pushed against my hands.
F. Her left foot was on my right, my right hand on hers.
B. I was not touching her leg at that time. [I was not feeling
her knee at the time, but her right foot was on my left and motionless.
B., Dec. 3/08.]
C. [still leaning across the seance table]. It is levitated twice again.
B. Her right leg against my left leg. Her right foot on my left
foot, her right hand on my left hand.
C. The small table is again levitated about 18 inches off the floor,
my hand resting on its surface.
B. Her right hand is resting on my left hand on the table. Her
right foot is kicking backwards and forwards, but I follow it all the
time.
F. Her left hand is well in mine on the table, my right hand
on her knees. Head close to me.
11.30 p.m. C. The table is moved up again as though pushed.
[I was leaning over the seance table with my right hand resting
flat on the surface of the small table. The upward pressure
exerted by the small table was of a peculiar character, as though
the table were suspended on elastics, which pushed upwards
forcibly. C, Dec. 3/08.]
C. The curtain is blown ritrht out against me as I am leaning
over the table.
F. Her left leg absolutely controlled as before. Her left hand in
mine on her lap.
B. Her right hand in mine on the table. She moves her right
foot with mine, and I follow the movements of it.
C. During this time I am leaning across the seance table, my
right hand being on the small table. The curtain covers my right
hand and the arm, as far as the elbow.
11.32 p.m. 0. The small table moves slightly under my right hand.
11.34 p.m. C. Three raps on the small table.
C. The small table has moved about three inches along the floor.
lix.J Sittings with Eusapia : Seance V. 433
[Light IV.]
C. The small table tilts on two of its legs.
F. Her left foot is continuously on my right foot, and when the
bumps came on the small table she pinched my left hand at the
same time.
B. Her right hand continues in my left hand on the table. Her
right foot on my left foot, and I keep following the movements of
her foot.
F. I have my right hand still on both her knees, which are
motionless.
11.36 p.m. C. The small table tilts violently to the right.
F. She is leaning back in my arms. My right hand on her two
knees and her left hand on the corner of the table just in front of
me.
B. Her right hand on my left hand on the table. She swings her
right foot backwards and forwards continuously and I follow it with
my left foot.
11.37 p.m. F. I have hold of her, left hand again.
11.38 p.m. Medium asks C to hold his hand, out towards the
curtain.
C. I hold it up about two feet above her head.
C. I feel a hand under the curtain but it does not touch my
hand ; it pushes out the curtain slightly to the left of the spot
where my hand is. I could feel a hard substance pushing the
curtain.
F. Her head is lying on my shoulder, her left hand continues in
mine.
C. Now I feel a hand pushing against my right hand.
F. Her left foot on my right. My left hand on her knees.
C. Again a hand pushes my right hand ;
again a hand pushes
strongly. I felt resistance as I pressed the curtain gently.
B. Her right hand in my left hand on the table and her right foot
against my left foot which she continues to swing backwards and
forwards and I continue following it with my foot.
F. Her two hands are at least two feet apart.
2e
434 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light IV.]
11.44 p.m. C. I am touched on my left fore-arm strongly.
[F. During all this time the medium was lying in a trance on
my right shoulder. Dec. 3/08.]
F. Her left hand continuously in mine.
C. The hand pushes strongly against the curtain, just under my
hand.
B. She presses her right hand very strongly on my left and
swings her right foot and I keep my left foot against it all the time
during the movements.
F. Her left hand continuously in mine, her head close to me and
visible.
11.46 p.m. C. The curtain is strongly pushed just under my
hand.
F. Control exactly the same as before.
B. The same with me.
11.48 p.m. B. I am touched on the left knee.
11.51 p.m. The small table is levitated up from the cabinet
and between F. and the medium, over her head.
[The small table must have come from the further side of the
cabinet, where G had replaced it. It came out right over her
head and landed with its top between her head and mine, with
its legs pointing horizontally into the cabinet. F., Dee. 3/08.]
F. I was holding her left hand motionless on the corner of the
table, her head was visible and motionless, and the table came out
directly over it. Her left foot absolutely controlled, one of mine
being between it and B's. Her left leg pressing against mine. Her
left hand is right over at this corner.
B. Her right hand in my left hand resting on the table. Her
right foot on my left foot and I feel her knee against my knee.
The control is perfect.
11.53 p.m. F. The table is now supported between her shoulders
and mine.
11.54- p-m. F. I am putting the small table bach again into the
cabinet.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance V. 435
[Light IV.]
11.56 p.m. The small table moved in the cabinet.
F. Her foot was on mine ; hand visibly in mine.
B. Her right hand in my left hand, also visible, and her right
foot on mine.
11.57 p.m. C. The medium rests her head on F., his arm being
around her neck.
12.3 a.m. Various movements of the large table, non-evidential.
12.4 a.m. Partial levitation of the large table.
F. Her left hand was holding mine on this side of the table, just
touching it. It cannot have been her left hand which caused the
movements. Her left foot motionless on mine and I know it is her
left foot.
B. Her right hand is in my left hand on her right knee. Her
right foot is resting on my left foot and it remained motionless
during the movements of the table.
T2 6. a.m. The medium stands up.
F. The table tilts on its two legs furthest from medium.
F. My left hand is under the left table leg. I also passed my
hand down the leg. Her left hand is motionless in my right.
C. Her right hand on the top of the table. I am passing my
finger along the edge of the table, her fingers and her wrists are
well above the edge.
B. I am holding her right hand.
F. Both hands are now above the table. I was between her and
the table. I pulled the table towards me and it resisted considerably
before it fell down—this after her hands had left.
The table comes up very strongly on two legs.
F. Of course, the table is balanced now. [I meant that the
table remained balanced in a normal way on the two legs furthest
from medium. F., Mar. 1/09.]
Complete levitation of the table.
F. Her left hand was jus.t touching the rim of the table when it
went up. Her left foot was absolutely controlled.
B. Her right hand in the same position as her left, just on the
rim of the table, and I had my left foot against her right foot.
436 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H-. Carrington. [part
[Light IV.]
[The table had tilted over a long way and appeared to be balancing
on the two furthest legs. It then made a sudden jump of several
inches with all four legs off the ground. Experiment shows that if
her knees were against both legs, a strong pull with both hands on
the rim could produce this effect. F., Dec. 3/08.]
12.12 a.m. The medium says that she docs not feel very well.
[The medium sat down and presently raised my hand to her fore-
head. F, Ap. 13/09.]
F. I feel a wind.
[/ asked the others to feel cdso. F., Ap. 13/09.]
C. I feel a distinct cold breeze issuing from her forehead. I
now feel it distinctly.
B. I can feel it.
G. Yes. Yes.
[/ now covered her nose and mouth with my hand, to prevent
the 'possibility of her blowing with her mouth. F., Ap. 13/09.]
12.14 a.m. C. I feel it clearly here on the left side.
F. At that time I had my hand right over her nose and mouth,
my little finger being on the ridge of her nose and the palm over
the tip of it.
12.15 a.m. C. I feel the breeze very strongly. F., do you
feel it?
F. Yes.
B. I felt it very strongly indeed.
F. I have my hand right over her nose and mouth.
[Other observers have recorded this cold wind which appears to issue
from a scar under her hair, over her forehead. F., Dec. 3/08.]
[The stance now terminated. The medium appeared extremely ex-
hausted. She asked if we would like to search her. We said it
was not necessary. F., Ap. 13/09.]
Note by E. Feilding.
Throughout the whole of our previous seances, Eusapia had been
constantly in a state of nervous anxiety to know, at every moment,
whether we held her properly. "E buono il controllo ? E buono il
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance V. 437
controllo?" ("Is your control good?") was repeated often many times
a minute, especially during the third seance. In vain we urged her to
leave that to us, and to go quietly off into her trance, and let come
what might. At the third seance, when we actually caught her playing
her old trick of substituting one hand for two, we immediately told
her of it. She discussed the matter with seeming frankness. She
told me of an occasion when Colonel de Rochas had caught her in a
similar manner, and said that she was unaware that she had done
it. In view of the Cambridge sittings, it seems probable that this
is something less than the truth. Nevertheless, from conversations
with her, her husband and her friend Signor de Santi, who at once
admitted that he had often noticed this trick, as well as from the
reports of former observers, we gathered the impression that it is,
at all events, a hypothetical possibility that her frauds, skilfully as
they are performed, are resorted to in a spirit of mischief while in
her waking state, and perhaps half unconsciously while in her semi-
trance state, and that no very severe moral blame, in a woman of
her temperament, is necessarily attachable to them. We therefore
promised her, if ever we actually caught her tricking, at once to
tell her.
On Nov. 30th the Report of the Paris Institut Glniral Psycho-
logique on their experiments with Eusapia reached me. She had
asked me about this and expressed interest to know whether it was
favourable or the reverse. I accordingly went to see her and told
her frankly that while, on the whole, the conclusions must evidently
be read as implying a belief in the possession by her of some
abnormal faculty affecting matter, the report nevertheless stated
that, on a few occasions, she had been caught resorting to fraud.
She was in no way disturbed and merely said, when I offered to
show her the Report, that she did not want to hear the details, as
charges of this kind might produce a suggestive effect which would
be harmful to her and tend to make her repeat the offence.
The result of our conversation, however, was satisfactory. She did
not, as in the third seance, constantly keep asking if the control
was good, but appeared never to trouble about it at all, resigned
herself quietly to our keeping and for the first time went off into
what appeared to be a deep trance state. Nor did she, as in the
third seance, constantly attempt to evade control. She allowed
her hands to be firmly held : her feet were generally motionless,
and the light was always sufficient to see the exact whereabouts of
her face, as well as of her hands, even from the further side of the
438 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
table. Whatever be the means by which the white hand and the
black face seen by C. and me, and the hand felt by C. within
the curtain, were produced, I am absolutely certain that the use of
her head or of the hand or foot on my side was not in question.
B. is equally certain so far as the hand or foot of his side are
concerned.
There remains the hypothesis of an apparatus concealed about
her, and actuated in some manner inconceivable to me. We
shall be told we ought to have searched her. We ought. She
herself suggested, after the seance, that we should. Whether it was
the fact that she herself proposed it that disarmed us, or a not
unnatural disinclination to submit her, while just recovering, with
every symptom of exhaustion, from a state of deep trance, to what
we understand from other reports has invariably proved a vain
quest, I cannot say. It is clear that another time, we must, in the
interests of accuracy of evidence, harden our hearts.
E. F., December 4th, 1908.
Note by H. Carrington.
Having yielded my control to B. early in the evening, I am
not in so good a position to speak of that as he : but there can be
no doubt that it was exceptionally good throughout the seance.
I can, however, speak with certainty of the levitations of the small
table and of the touches through the curtain towards the end of
the sitting. With F. and B. closely guarding her hands and feet,
her head being visible, and with a clear space between the table
and her body, the small table was completely levitated several times
under my hand, in a way quite inexplicable by me, and in a peculiar
manner impossible to duplicate by fraudulent means, so far as I can
judge. The touches, also, were certainly effected by a material and
responsive agent, which pushed strongly against the curtains, just
under my hand, and, later, against my hand, through the curtains.
My hand was held up at a distance of quite 2h feet above the
medium's head, and both B. and F. were positive of their separate
controls, which they several times verified, during the actual pro-
duction of these touches. There was also a clear space between
her body and the curtain. The phenomena appeared to me very
remarkable at the time, occurring, as they did, under what I must
consider exceptionally fine conditions, as regards hand and foot
control. H. C, December 7th, 1908.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance V. 439
Note by W. W. Baggally.
No perfect levitation of the table (that is, the rising of the four
legs of the table from the floor at the same time) took place at
this seance, and most of the levitations that occurred could not be
considered evidential, since one or both hands of the medium were
in contact with the table when it was rising.
There were, however, two cases which offered, to my mind, good
evidence of a supernormal force being at work ;
viz., those which
occurred at 10.13 and 10.24 (vide Report) when Eusapia had not her
hands in contact with the table, and her feet were under control of F.
and C. in one case, and of F. and myself in the other. It is doubtful
whether the levitation that took place at 12.6 (when the legs of
the table close to Eusapia were off the floor and the side of the
table further away from her rose up in the air), was produced super-
normally, since, although she was standing up at the time, and both
her feet were controlled, I found, subsequently that while holding the
rim of the table in the same manner that the medium did, I could, by
placing my bent knees against the table legs, or pressing the sides
of my knees against the interior sides of the table legs, cause the
furthest side of the table to rise when pulling the table with my
hands towards me. I cannot assert that Eusapia resorted to this
method. My impression is that she did not,
I feel positive that the medium's right hand and right foot
were not used in the production of any of the phenomena which
took place in the cabinet. I continuously kept control of her
right foot and right hand and also kept my knee against her
knee, with the exception of the experiment at 10.57 when F. had
control of both her legs. On two or three occasions when I felt
that her knee was not touching mine, I broke the " chain," that
is, I released my right hand from Mr. Gibson's hand and then
passed my right hand under the table and felt with it Eusapia's
right leg, from the knee downwards, to assure myself that no
substitution of feet had taken place, and that it was the foot of
her right leg that was resting on my left foot.
No substitution of hands took place at this seance. I frequently
verified that it was the medium's right hand that I held in, or that
was resting on, my left hand, by feeling her thumb and the palm
of her hand. Moreover, the light was sufficiently good for me to
see her right hand when it rested on the table. It is also to be
440 E. Feilcling, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
observed that her hands were too far apart from each other to
allow of substitution.
This was the first seance of the series that I attended. I formed
no opinion as to the character of the phenomena, but was much
impressed by the results obtained under the strict conditions that
were imposed. W. W. B., Dec. 3rd, 1908.
Remarks on Seance VI.
December ith, 1008.
This seance, by reason of the number of phenomena and
the rapidity with which they followed one another, the
remarkable character of many of them, and the complete con-
trol permitted by Eusapia, proved one of the most interesting
of the whole series. For an hour practically nothing occurred.
The medium appeared vexed and suggested an alteration of
the light, which was accordingly changed to No. 3, the bright
ruby lamp shaded with tissue paper and a white silk hand-
kerchief hanging over it, a light sufficient to enable F., sitting
at the further end of the table from the medium, to see her
head and hands. Still nothing occurred for a further half
hour, till at 11.35 B. was touched on the shoulder, and the
curtain blew out over the table.
At 11.38 there appeared one of those strange objects seen
from time to time at Eusapia's seances, to which, for want of a
better name, the word " head " is applied, though they are only
very distantly suggestive of human heads. They are of different
sizes and shapes, sometimes shooting out of the curtain and
back with great swiftness, sometimes with a certain deliberate-
ness, but always with absolute silence, like shadows. They are
impossible to describe verbally. After the seance C. attempted
to draw his impression of this one, with approximately the
following result :
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance VI. 441
It shot straight out from between the curtains, turned
a sudden right angle, approached close to C.'s face, and then
retired. This object was black ; the next appearance, a
few minutes later, at 11.41, coincident with a touch on
C.'s head, was white. In both these cases the medium's
two hands were separately held and under complete control.
Further touches followed, and at 11.50 the curtain flew out
with such violence that it reached the further end of the
table.
It seems unnecessary to go through the details of the
phenomena, which are adequately described in the shorthand
report, but attention may be called to some of the more
remarkable. Although touches had frequently been felt at
previous seances, this was the first seance at which the
sensation of the grasp of a complete hand was experienced.
This occurred to all three sitters, to both C. and B. between
11.58 and 12.5, and to F. just before and after 12.11,
when he was holdino- his hand 2 J- feet above the medium's
head (her hands being held one on the table and one in her
lap) and was seized by apparently living fingers, of which
he felt the nails, through the curtain. At about 12.18 B.
was seized by a hand which came from behind the curtain,
and pulled him by the sleeve so violently that it almost
upset him off" his chair into the cabinet, both the medium's
hands being separately and distinctly held by C. and B.
Various other appearances of objects, sometimes white, some-
times grey, took place, occasionally coincident with touches
on the sitters.
At 12.26 F. went to stand beside the medium and held
his hand high over her head, with a view to ascertaining
how far from her the touches could be obtained. The
attempts made to produce the touches were instructive.
The medium first appeared to wish to establish a rap-port
between her and F.'s hand, and releasing her hand from B.'s,
put it within the curtain and took hold of F.'s through it.
She then replaced her hand on B.'s on her lap. After a
kind of head visible to C. and F. (the notes do not state
whether B. also saw it) had shot out and retired, a series
of attempts were made by something within the curtain to
take hold of F.'s uplifted hand. Something solid pushed out
442 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garringtou. [part
over and over again aqainst the inside of the curtain against
CO o
the lower side of F.'s hand, or against his wrists, but
apparently could not reach quite high enough to grasp the
hand itself. Meanwhile, Eusapia appeared to strain upwards
outside the curtain, raising her two hands, still held by C. and
B., as though a sympathetic physical effort were required in
order to direct the " force," and explaining at the moment that
that was in fact the case. The effort, it is true, failed, and no
actual grasp was given, but the conditions under which the
touches occurred and the opportunity for careful observation
during the long continued attempts to reach F.'s hand, the
adequate control which existed in consequence of the visibility
of Eusapia's head and hands and the proximity of F. to the
curtain, make the incident one of high interest.
Immediately afterwards, a further appearance of a black
head, apparently similar to the one seen during the earlier
portion of the seance, occurred, followed by a light inside the
curtain, the first luminous phenomenon that had been per-
ceived by us. This, from its position, was visible only to C.
The white Light II. was then, at Eusapia's request, turned
up, and a further short series of curtain movements and of
touches took place. The " cork experiment " mentioned at
12.55 refers to a small apparatus devised by B., consisting of
a cork suspended perpendicularly on an elastic stretched
horizontally between two nails fastened on a board. The
lower surface of the cork was covered with indigo, and the
object of the experiment was to see if without contact
Eusapia could succeed in depressing the cork so as to leave
a mark of the indigo on the board. She tried, holding
her hands above the cork for 2 or 3 minutes, but failed to
produce any effect, and, it being very late, she abandoned the
attempt.
The seance then broke up and the original Light I. was
turned up. The phenomena, however, as described in C.'s
note, continued. The table continued to tilt about as though
the "force" were not yet expended and it occurred to F. to
ask for a repetition of the phenomenon which had taken place
at the 2nd seance when the guitar had been plucked. We
were all standing round the curtain, B. and M. talking and
not paying attention ; F. and C, however, listening to see if
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance VI. 443
effect would be given to F.'s request. They both simultane-
ously heard a light twanging of the guitar which stood as in
the 2nd seance on the floor in the ancrle of the walls, distant
O }
about a metre from the curtains.
A description is given in C.'s note of a further experiment
with the " breeze " which, after the fifth seance, appeared to
issue from the scar on Eusapia's brow. It may be added
that, witli a view to determining the objective character of
this breeze, we had meanwhile bought a small paper flag
similar to those used for Christmas tree decoration.
Shorthand Eeport of Stance VI.
December 4th, 1908.
Present : F., C, and B., and If., shorthand-ivriter, cd separate table
as before.
No small table was put inside the cabinet.
The various toys were, placed, on the floor inside the curtain along
the walls, with the guitar standing upright in the angle.
Lights as before, except that No. 3 was shaded with one thickness
of brown tissue paper and silk handkerchief, to diminish the
unpleasant red glare.
10.3 p.m. Seance began.
M
414 E. Feilding, IF. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Light I.
10.3 to 10.16 p.m. nothing happens.
F. Note that when medium came into the room she went straight
to her chair, then got up to get her handkerchief, and then returned
to her scat. She has not touched the curtains and does not know
what is behind them,
10.20 p.m. The table tilts towards B.
10.23 p.m. C. The medium's skirt bulges out very slowly.
10.4-6 p.m. Four tilts ash us to talk.
10.49 p.m. Light No. 2 with M.'s Light.
Light II.
11.5 p.m. F. The table tilted towards her strongly.
C. Her left leg is over my right knee and she made pressing-
movements with her foot as the table went up. Her left hand is
pressing against mine in my lap.
B. Her right hand is resting on my left hand resting on her lap.
Her right foot is on my left foot, and I am feeling the whole of
her leg with my leg. Our knees are touching.
F. There is no movement of her body as far as I can see.
[The toe of her foot, so far as I can judge, was about three
inches below the surface of the table, and as she moved her foot
slowly as the table went up, I cannot guarantee that she did not
press against it with her toe, though my impression is that she did
not, C, Dec 5/08.]
[Medium being vexed at the long delay in the commencement of the
phenomena suggested tliat ice might try another light; on our asking
her which, she said she did not know. Fee. 5/OS.]
11.7 p.m. Light 3 shaded with brown tissue paper and handker-
chief and M.'s electric light, shaded.
Light III. shaded.
11.8 p.m. Medium asks F. to sit at the end of the table so as
to make a better circle.
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance VI.
[Light III. shaded.]
445
F
F. Note that I can see the medium's face from where I am. 1
can see the 'position of all three heads quite plainly.
B. She asks me to put my hand against the curtain.
11.21 p.m. F. The table tilts away from her.
C. Her left foot is on my right, kicking slowly about ;
left hand
in my right on her lap.
B. My hand is on her right hand on her lap. Her right leg-
moving backwards and forwards, with my left leg accompanying it.
My leg was away from the table.
11.35 p.m. B. Oh! I was touched on my shoulder.
[Immediately after the touch the right curtain blew out and
remained over B.'s arm. Dec. 5/08.]
C. She was holding my right hand with her left visibly on the
table, her left foot pressing against my right.
B. My left hand was on the right hand of the medium on the
table, under the curtain, which had fallen across our hands. Her
right foot was on my left foot, my knee touching her knee, and I
can feel the whole length of her leg.
11 38 p.m. C. Medium asks me to look in a particular direction.
C. I see a black object coming to within three inches of my face.
I cannot describe it. It went up instantaneously. It looked like
a cauliflower.
[The object coming from the cabinet was intensely black and
seemed to be about 3 inches broad by 12 inches long. It
shot straight out from the cabinet and then turned to the left
and approached my face, as though a head had turned to look
at me, The outline of this head was certainly not human, either
446 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggcdly, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light III. shaded.]
as regards size or characteristics. It appeared to be covered all
over with small lumps or knobs, and the nearest description I
can give to this head is that it resembled the top of a large
'cello. It moved slowly and stayed out about 3 or 4 seconds.
C, Dec. 5/08.]
C. Her left hand was on my left hand visibly on the table. My
right hand being on her back. Her head resting against my head.
Her left foot resting against my right.
B. Her right hand on the table in my left, still under the curtain,
and her right foot on my left foot and our knees together ; she kept
moving her leg, but I kept in contact with it.
C. The curtain is thrown over my shoulder.
C. Control the same as before.
F. to C. Could the medium have moved her head away from
you 1
C. No, my head and hers were touching and my right hand was
holding her left visibly The foot control exactly the same as
before.
B. Mine exactly the same, as also the motions of her leg.
F. Note that the medium let go of B.'s hand for a moment, after
saying that she 'teas going to do so.
C. She now leans her head against mine.
11.41 p.m. C. I am touched by a hand on the head.
F. I saw a white thing come out from the curtains over the
medium's head towards C.'s head.
C. While this was going on, the medium's head was resting against
mine, my right arm being around her shoulder, her left hand being
visibly on mine on the table and her left foot pressing on my right.
B. My control exactly the same as before, her right hand resting
on my left hand on the table, under the curtain, and her right foot
resting on my left foot, and her right knee pressing against my left
knee.
[I could tell it was her right hand by the feeling of the relative
position of her hand to her fingers and feeling the thumb and the
palm of her hand ; and that it was her real hand by the warmth
and by the responses to my squeezes. B., Dec. 5/08.]
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VI. 447
[Light III. shaded.]
11.44 P-m- Medium says, it is- coining there !
{Medium said to C, " Look, he will come there" indicating a
particular spot to the left of B. Dec. 5/OS.]
\_No phenomenon, occurred which seems to justify this remark till
the appearance of a head at about 1:2.50. F., Mar. 10/09.]
C. I am touched on the head through the curtain, twice.
C. The medium's head resting against my head ; her left hand
visibly on the table in my left hand, her left knee pressing against
my right knee.
B. Her right hand is resting on my left hand on the table, and
her right foot is resting on my left foot and I still continue pressing
my knee against her knee.
F. I saw something white just over the medium's head. A sort
of flash of white. The medium's head was motionless.
II.4.8 p.m. 0. The medium moves the hand held in B.'s hand and
makes him feel with his hand that we are holding different ones.
B. And tells me that that is what site is doing.
11.50. p.m. 0. I hear something moving in the cabinet.
B. The curtain is thrown over my side.
F. It has come as far as my end of the table.
C. Her left hand held my right firmly on her knee. Her left
foot resting on my foot. I was also stroking her forehead with my
left hand.
B. Her right hand on my left hand on her right knee, her right
foot on my left foot, and I could feel the whole length of her leg
against mine, our knees touching.
B. and C. both say that they can feel her thumbs.
11.58 p.m. Medium asks B. if he can sit nearer to her.
C. I saw a slight bulge out of the curtain on the right side.
F. I saw a white thing come slowly up, which I thought was
the medium's hand lifting B.'s, and going slowly up about two
inches above the level of B.'s head and then down again, slowly,
and made no doubt that it was B. raising his hand with the
medium's.
448 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carriwgton. [part
[Light III. shaded.]
F. to B. Was it your hand holding the medium's ?
B. No.
F. I made no doubt that it wets your two hands.
B. Medium's right hand was still on my left hand on her knee
and her right foot was continuously on my left foot, and our knees
are touching.
C. And her left hand is held by my right.
C. I am hit right on the head by a hand right through the
curtain.
[I felt the four fingers and the thumb this time. The hand was
open and a minute after the fingers were closed and I was again
hit on the head. C, Dec, 5/08.]
C. Control exactly the same. The medium's head against mine,
and she kicked with her foot under the table in front of her.
B. My control exactly the same as before.
Note by M. " Medium says that she is getting cold. I have looked
at thermometer and it stood at 6:2° Fahr., the same as be/ore."
F. I asked "John" to give me something from the cabinet, and
the medium replied, " / will look for it with my foot" and moved
her left foot about.
B. A hand comes out from behind the curtain and presses me
tightly on my shoulder. I feel the thumb and the four fingers
which are now pressing downwards with very considerable force.
C. I was holding her left hand by the thumb on her left thigh.
Her left foot being on my right. Her head pressing against my
head.
B. Her right hand is resting on my left hand. I can feel both
her knees with my right hand which I had passed under the table.
Her right foot is on my left foot and our knees are touching.
1 2.4 a.m. C. I saw the curtain bulge out.
B. She let go of my hand asking if she could feci inside the
cabinet, and after a few seconds she passed her hand back again
to my left hand.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VI. 449
[Light III. shaded.]
12.5 a.m. C. The medium holds my right leg in between her tvjo
legs and is kicking to and fro saying that she wants to bring
something out of the cabinet with her foot, but her foot remains
under the table all the time.
B. She has removed her foot from mine.
12.6 a.m. F. I again saw a white thine; coming over her head.
I could not say what it was.
C. I also saw the white thing.
[The '
white thing ' looked like a creamy white object coming out,
about six inches square. C, Dec. 6/08.]
C. My control exactly the same as before.
C. The curtain blows right out twice as though pushed by some
substance. I could see the round swelling of the curtain.
C. Her hand was pressing firmly against my hand and I am
holding it by the thumb. Both legs around my right leg.
B. Her right hand is on my left hand on her right knee.
F. I have asked the medium whether I could feel the hand also.
She replied, " yes."
[She asked me to stand at the side of the table and hold my hand
to the curtain over her head. F., Mar. 11/09.]
F. stands to the left of C. and leans over with his left hand out-
stretched about 2h feet above and to the left of the mediums head.
Immediately after—
F. I am touched by something coming straight on to the points
of my fingers.
12.11 a.m. F. I am touched again; I am taken hold of by
fingers, and I can feel the nails quite plainly.
[My fore-finger was pressed hard by three separate fingers above
it and by a thumb below, through the curtain. I felt the nails
quite distinctly as they pressed into my finger. F., Dec. 6/08.]
C. Her head, pressing against my head. I am absolutely holding
her left hand on the table, both her legs are around my right leg
under the chair.
B. I am absolutely certain that her right hand is on my left
hand on her right knee.
450 E. Fe tiding, W. W. Baggally, and H. GarHngton, [part
[Light III. shaded.]
F. I am touched again. Grasped this time as though by the
lower part of the thumb and ringers. [The grasp was round
the palm of my hand. F. ;
Mar. 11/09.]
B. I am touched gently on my hand and at the same moment
I am touched by a hand on my shoulder.
B. Also the curtain came out as though struck violently by a
hand from within.
[The touches, in this case, on F.'s hand, which was high up, and
on the shoulder of B., who was sitting on the other side of the
table, at least three feet from F.'s hand, appeared to be absolutely
simultaneous, and immediately afterwards the curtain was thrust
violently out as though it was struck hard several times by a
hand within. F. and B., Dec. 6/08.]
B. Same control.
C. Same control.
[In acknowledgment of this outburst of phenomena I said " Thank
you! John," and a hand replied by coming out from behind the
curtain and patting me on the shoulder in a friendly kind of
way. B., Dec. 6/08.]
C. She squeezed my left hand while this was going on
B. She has now placed the curtain between my hand and hers,
F. to B. Are you certain it is Iter hand ?
B. Yes, because I can feel part of the bare hand 011 the table, and
I am squeezing her thumb.
12.17 a.m. F. I have ashed Joint if there was enough force for
him to show himself. Immediately afterwards—
C. I saw a white thing over her head clearly.
[So did I ; it was just as though something showed itself obligingly
in reply to my request. F., Dec. 5/08.]
[The medium squeezed my hand, and immediately afterwards
F. and I saw the white thing. C, Dec. 5/08.]
B. I saw the white thing over her head and immediately after
that a hand came out from behind the curtain and forcibly pulled
me towards the cabinet, quite tightly on my sleeve.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance VI. 451
[Light III. shaded.]
[The pull was so violent that it almost pulled me off my chair.
B., Dee. 5/08.]
12.19 a. in. C. At that time I had hold of her left hand in my
right on my corner of the table, and I could feel her arm up as
far as the elbow. Both her legs were around my leg.
B. Her right hand was resting on my left hand on the table and
I was holding her thumb. The curtain had been taken away from
between our hands.
12.20 a.m. C. The medium has taken her two legs from around
my right leg and noiu has her left foot on my right foot.
B. And, she places her rigid foot on my left foot and I am feeling
her knee with my knee.
C. The medium rests her head on my right shoulder and is pressing
against it. I have my arm around her neck. I have her left
hand in my left hand on the table.
C. I saw the curtain blow out in front of me.
B. Medium's right hand is in my left.
F. I saw something white appear on the furthest side of the
cabinet from the medium, up by the door. The white thing I
saw was about half way up the curtain and about 3i feet away
from medium.
B. My control the same as before.
C. I am touched on the head by a hand.
C. At this moment the medium's head is pressing against my
head. Her left hand in my left on the table, and with my right
hand I am holding the whole of her left arm. Her left foot on
my right foot.
B. Medium's right hand resting on my left on the table. Bight
foot on my left foot, and she moves it backwards and forwards and
I follow with my foot.
C. Her left foot was motionless.
12.23 a.m. C. I am touched plainly by a hand on the head.
C. My control the same as before.
F. I also saw it. It was a grey thing.
452 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light III. shaded.]
[I saw a greyish thing shoot out from the cabinet over the
medium's head towards C. and then go back again. F., Dec. 5/08.]
B. The medium's right hand was rubbing the back of my left
hand continuously while that took place, our hands being on the
surface of the table, her right foot being on my left foot.
12.2Jf. a- m- Medium said- that she wanted to let go of B.'s hand;
she did so and immediately afterwards put it back.
12.25 a.m. C. She kicked up with her left foot quickly about
two inches, her left foot resting across my left foot, and a loud
knock sounded.
She did this a second time.
C. I had my hand across the under part of the table and know
that her leg did not come up.
[After the first rap, which sounded like a kick with the boot on
the under side of the table, I stooped down and stretched my left
hand across under the table so that, had she kicked with her foot
she must have kicked my arm, and although the second rap resulted,
nothing touched my arm. C, Dec. 5/08.]
B. " John " has given me a second squeeze on my left arm.
12.26 a.m. F. asks medium if he mag go close up to the curtains.
Medium sags " Yes," and F. therefore goes between B. and the
cabinet.
F. I am holding mg hand just inside the cabinet, on the extreme
right of the medium.
F. I feel a cold breeze inside the cabinet around my hand. I
cannot yet touch anything.
lis.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VI. 453
[Light III. shaded.]
C. I am touched. Oh ! niy hair is pulled by a complete hand
through the curtains.
C. Medium's head resting against mine. Medium's left hand
[control stated, but omitted in stenographic notes. C. Dec. 5/08].
The whole of her left arm controlled by my right arm, and her left
foot on my right foot.
B. The medium's right hand is on my left band on the table.
I am sure it is her right hand as I can feel her thumb. Her right
foot is on my left foot and I can feel the side of her leg against
my leg.
F. When C. was touched I saw the curtain come right out over
the medium's head.
1*2,30 a.m. F. She saw me holding my hand up against the
cabinet waiting to be touched. She therefore let go of B.'s hand,
saying that she was going to do so, put her hand inside the curtain
and took hold of mine through the curtain, saying " This is my
hand," and she then resumed holel of B.'s hand.
C. I saw a head come out from the curtains slowly and within
six inches of my head, and it stayed out about two seconds, and
then went back.
C. The medium's head resting against my head, left hand in my
right in her lap, left foot on my right foot.
B. Her right hand on my left hand on her right lap ; her right
foot on my left foot.
C. I saw a distinct head come out to within a foot from me
and then disappear suddenly.
F. I saw it also. I saw it come out about two feet. I only
just caught sight of it and could not describe it.
[It is not clear whether this refers to a repetition of the pheno-
menon or whether it is a repetition of the description only.
F, Mar. 11/09.]
C. Same control as before.
B. Her right hand on the palm of my left hand on her knee.
Her right foot on my left foot.
454 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light III. shaded ]
12.38 a.m. F. Something pushes out here against my hand,
just on the side of my hand, from inside the curtain.
C. Same control as before.
B. My control is the same.
12.40 a.m. F. The curtain pushed out here against my hand
for the second time.
[I wanted to see at how great a height I could be touched. I
held my hand more than two feet above her head. I asked her
if it was too high. She said " No." Various attempts were made
to reach my hand by something within the cabinet, but it
apparently could not get so high and struck me only on the
wrist. F., Dec. 5/08.]
[While this was going on the medium redsed B.'s and my hands
about IS ineh.es off the table saying that this helped. C,
Dec. 51 OS.]
F. Now there is something playing around about my hand. I
am holding my hand above the head of the medium against the
curtain.
F. Another strong push below my hand.
C. 1 saw something white just inside that curtain [right], under-
neath.
C. A head comes right out between my head and B.'s.
[The object appeared to me to be a small black head at the end
of a long neck, on a narrow, knotty body, and it appeared not
to issue horizontally from the curtain but to come rather from
the right shoulder of the medium. When it retired it moved as
if the lower part of it were pivoted on to the shoulder of the
medium. I had an extremely good view of it, and during the
production of the phenomenon I was certain that the medium was
holding my left hand. B., Dec. 5/08.]
C. Control the same as before, except that medium's head is
removed from my head to a distance of eight inches, visibly. Her
left leg is now across my right knee.
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance VI. 455
[Light III. shaded.]
B. Her right hand is on my left hand on the edge of the table.
Her right foot resting on my left foot.
[1 think I had resumed my place at the other end of the table
when this phenomenon occurred, though the fact is omitted in the
report. F., Mar. 11/09.]
C. The curtain has moved and I saw a kind of white light
about an inch across and about six feet from the floor, inside
the curtain.
Medium asks for more light. Light No. 3 turned on,
Light II.
F. The curtain is pulled up as though by somebody inside. It
is pulled inwards first and is then pushed outwards.
C. I can see the medium's head about six inches from me. Her
left hand in my right. Her left leg across my knee.
B. I can see the medium quite clearly. I hold her right hand
in my left hand. I cannot see it because it is under the curtain.
I feel her right foot on my left foot, which I verify by feeling with
my right foot. I feel with both feet, in fact.
C. The curtain blows out strongly.
B. And " John " struck my back twice.
C. My control as before.
B. So is mine, and I am squeezing her hand.
12.55 a.m. F. asks medium if "John" will try the cork experi-
ment. Medium says " We will try."
[The cork apparatus was brought and placed on the table, and the
medium tried for two or three minutes to depress the cork without
contact, but unsuccessfully. F., Ap. 13/09.]
B. The curtain was blown right over my left shoulder.
B. The medium's hands were free, but joined in front of her
and visible to all of us. Her right foot resting wholly on mine.
F. I asked medium whether I could look into the cabinet and she
said certainly.
C. I see a slight bulge of the curtain.
456 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
Light I.
B. She now parts the curtain altogether and gives it to me to
enable us all to look into the cabinet.
[The se'ancc was now thought to be ended. Further phenomena,
however, still occurred. See C.'s note below. F., Ap. 13/09.]
Note by H. Garrington.
The sixth seance has left on my mind an indelible impression of
the reality of at least some of the phenomena occurring in the presence
of Eusapia. This relates more particularly to the touches of human
hands, which are, in one sense, the most extraordinary and the
most incredible of any of the phenomena produced through Eusapia's
mediumship. That human hands—having all the peculiarities of
hands, even to the presence of finger nails, should become visible
and tangible during a seance—these hands not being Eusapia's nor
any of the sitters' —this is so utterly at variance with common sense
that one finds it next to impossible to believe it. And yet these
hands are real, and by no possible means could they have been
Eusapia's. During almost the whole time when the touches were
taking place she was resting her head against mine, my right
hand being around her shoulders, her body resting against my
body. Her left hand, passive, was lying in my left hand, firmly
grasped by me, while I frequently pressed the whole of her left
arm against my body, lifted the hand to the light to make sure
that it was really her hand, and traced its connection with her
body. The hand was certainly hers, and could not possibly have
been any dummy left in my care. I frequently verified that
fact. This left hand rested the greater part of the time on
Eusapia's left knee, and was at least two feet away from her
right hand, which B. was firmly holding tqwn the table. At no
time did she attempt even to approximate the hands, far less
to effect any substitution. That was out of the question.
Both B. and I are absolutely certain that we continuously held
one hand of the medium (which we constantly verified was
hers), and during the actual moment of the touch, we frequently
disregarded the phenomenon and turned our whole attention to
the control of the hands. Her feet were meanwhile held securely
by ours under the table. But there is no doubt whatever
that- the touches were made by a hand and not by a foot, nor by a
LIX,] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VI. 457
non-living thing. I frequently felt the separate fingers and the
thumb during the touch, and F. on one occasion distinctly felt the
finger nails, which pressed into the upper side of his outstretched
finger. Whatever may be the nature and origin of these hands, I
am absolutely positive that they are not produced by Eusapia's
own hands and equally certain that they were not produced by
her head, her feet or any part of her bod}-. The theory of dummy
hands, manipulated somehow by the medium during the trance
state, is the only possible normal hypothesis, but I consider that also
quite excluded for the following reasons :
(1) A careful search of the medium, after the seance, failed to
reveal the presence of any such hands.
(2) The sensation of the touch was distinctly human, and quite
unlike the sensation that would result from a touch by a dummy hand.
(3) Some part of the medium's body must be free in order to
work such an apparatus. No part of her body, however, was free,
and no suspicious movements of the kind necessary to manipulate
such an instrument were ever perceived by us.
(4) It is almost impossible to conceive the elaborate apparatus
that would be necessary to produce all the effects observed by us.
Several important phenomena took place at the conclusion of the
sixth seance, after the stenographic record ends. The reason for this
ij that the stenographer ceased taking notes when the light was
turned up, owing to the lateness of the hour (it was getting on
for 2.0 a.m.), but phenomena continued to take place in the light,
even when we considered the seance closed. The right hand curtain
blew out strongly towards B., who thereupon stated that he felt a
hand, playing with his left side, under his arm, as though finger
tips were gently stroking him. At this time, both the medium's
feet were controlled, and her head and her two hands were clearly
visible, in good light, above the table. She was just coming out
of the trance state, and still somewhat bewildered.
The table then tilted several times, our hands resting upon it.
Thereupon F. asked " John " to try and pick one of the strings of
the small guitar, still standing in the corner of the cabinet. We all
stood up, including the medium, who was about six inches in front
of the cabinet curtains, her skirt not touching them, her two feet
were controlled by those on either side of her, and her two hands
held. The light was very bright and good—good enough for
us to read small print. We stood thus for about a minute, while
B. and M. exchanged remarks upon some subject bearing on the
458 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
seance. At that moment, F. and I, who were listening closely,
clearly perceived a slight twanging sound of the strings of the
guitar, as though fingers were playing with them lightly, but were
unable to pull one of them with sufficient force to make it resound.
The attempt to play these strings was, however, quite clear and
audible to F. and myself, who heard it at the same instant.
After the medium had resumed her seat, we felt her head with
our hands, to see if the famous "cold breeze" was again issuing from
her forehead. We all clearly perceived it with our hands, placed at
a distance of about 3 inches from the medium's head. F. held
his hand over her mouth and nose and we all held our own
noses and mouths and refrained from breathing, but the breeze
was still distinctly perceptible. B. then held a small paper flag
to the medium's forehead—her nose and mouth, as well as our
own, still being well covered. The flag blew right out several
times, and then out so forcibly that it turned completely over and
wrapped itself once round the flag-staff to which it was attached.
The objective nature of this breeze seems thus established, though
a thermometer, held to her head, failed to record any lowering of
temperature.
At the conclusion of the sixth seance, we asked the medium if
we might search her. She at once consented, and proceeded to
take off her bodice and skirt, and hand them to us for examination.
There was certainly no slit or other contrivance in the skirt or in
the bodice, and we also examined her petticoats and other under
garments, and felt over her body with our hands, through the few
remaining clothes. So far as we could discover, nothing was concealed
about her person or her clothes.
I have already remarked that unless the medium could succeed
in releasing one hand, such devices would be quite useless to
her. I am quite positive, however, that, not only were no such
devices concealed about her, but that her hands were not free
one instant during the actual production of any phenomenon,
unless it is so especially stated in the Iveport : and in these cases
the hands were invariably visible to us. It would have been an
excellent occasion for the medium, had she been dishonest, to have
concealed such objects about her person, since our refusal to search
her at the previous seance (owing to her extreme fatigue) might
have suggested to her that we should not want to search in future,
and so she would most certainly have concealed apparatus about
her at this particular seance, if at all.
jj q j-)
ec 7^ 1908
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VI. 459
Note by W. W. Baggally.
During the production of the phenomena which occurred at this
seance, the light in the room was at times lowered and raised, but
was always sufficient to allow of the sitters' faces being seen, and
their hands also when resting on the table.
Precautions against the substitution of hands or feet were taken
by C. and myself. C. had control of her left hand and foot and I
had control of her right hand and foot. I assured myself that no
substitution of hands took place during the whole sitting by con-
tinually feeling the thumb and palm of the medium's hand that I
had under control, and by this means I was certain that it was her
right hand that was held in, or rested on, my left hand. I also
assured myself that no substitution of feet took place by feeling the
whole of her right leg against my left leg, and by touching her
knee with mine, and also feeling her right foot on my left foot.
As an additional precaution, I sometimes felt her two knees with
my right hand which I placed under the table, and her two feet
with my right foot.
No movement of objects in the cabinet took place. The
phenomena consisted principally of the appearance of a hand, the
touching, grasping and pulling by it of the sitters, the appearance
of a head, and of objects of an indefinable nature of different
colours, white, grey and black. I am of opinion that under
the conditions of strict control (and of light) described above, it
was not possible for Eusapia to produce these phenomena with
one of her hands, as any suspicious movement of it would have
been felt or seen. Neither could she have produced them with one
of her feet, even assuming that by substitution she had got one of
them free. She continued quietly seated in a natural position in
her chair and it would have been a physical impossibility for her
to raise one of her feet to the height above her head at which
some of the touches were felt. It would be absurd to imagine that
she had been able to transform the form of one of her feet
into that of a hand. F. clearly felt the fingers and nails of this
hand. C. felt the form and movements of the fingers, and I also
distinctly felt the grasp of the thumb and four fingers. The pheno-
mena followed each other rapidly. If they had been carried out
by means of one of the medium's hands or feet, they would have
necessitated a series of releases and replacements of her hand or
foot which would have been detected at once.
4G0 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
The pivoting on Eusapia's shoulder of the lower part of the
body belonging to the black head which appeared after 12.40 was
certainly suspicious. It would suggest that one of her arms, covered
with some material like black cloth, was being used by her for the
production of the manifestation, but as both C. and myself were
quite sure that we had her left and right hands under perfect
control at the moment that the figure appeared, it is difficult to
understand how she could have had one of her arms free. The
figure appeared and disappeared quite noiselessly.
I noticed that the force or whatever it may be that produces
the phenomena, is capable of acting only within a limited area
round Eusapia's body. This fact of course suggests the suspicion
that the limitation is determined by the distance from her body
that she can reach to with her arms and legs after she has effected
a substitution of hands or feet. The instance when F. placed his
hand on the curtain above Eusapia's head (while she was under
complete control of both hands and feet) in order to see how far
from her his hand could be touched by the hand within the cabinet,
specifically proved, however, that the limitation did not depend on
the length of her arms or legs.
The phenomena were not produced by any method of conjuring
known to me. I have made a study of this art from my boyhood.
Just before the occurrence of a manifestation Eusapia often observed
that it was about to take place, and she frequently described the
nature of the anticipated phenomenon, and asked the sitters to be
sure that they had, at the same time, proper control of her hands
and feet. This procedure on her part is contrary to one of the
fundamental rules of the conjuring art, which enjoins that the atten-
tion of the audience should not be directed to (nor their vigilance
increased at) the actual moment that the necessary steps for the
production of a trick are being carried out. The result on my
mind of the two seances of Dec. 2nd and Dec. 4th is that I find
myself being driven to adopt, as a provisional explanation of the
phenomena, either that they are brought about by some mechanism
which is hidden about the person of Eusapia, which she is able to
make use of in some unaccountable manner, while her hands and
feet are under control, or that they are produced by some super-
normal means.
At the conclusion of the seance, we requested Eusapia Palladino
to allow us to search her. She readily consented, divested herself
of all her outer clothing and, while she stood on a chair, allowed
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VI. 461
us to feel over her body and to examine the clothing that she had
taken off. No mechanism (threads, hooks, wires) or anything of a
suspicious nature, was found upon her.
The supernormal explanation appears therefore to be the only
one that will meet the case, but I hesitate to accept it until I
have had further experiments with this remarkable medium.
W. W. B., Dec. 6th, 1908.
Note by E. Feilding.
It is singular that the impression made upon our minds by any
particular seance seems to vary inversely with the effectiveness of
the shorthand notes. Certain it is that the report of the sixth
seance, which we went through last night, while doubtless accurately
recording what took place, gives a most inadequate account of the
emotional effect of it all. We were all three completely bowled over.
Eusapia had arrived very late owing to the non-arrival of her cab.
When she did come she was in a very talkative mood, and button-
holed me at every landing of the five flights of stairs to our rooms
to give a fresh instalment in Neapolitan dialect (I do not understand
Neapolitan dialect) of a burglary which she had once endured.
Our journey upstairs occupied about 25 minutes ; but it was not
enough for the dimensions of her story, which continued long after
we sat down at the table. Every device failed to distract her, and
it was very late before the first symptoms of the oncoming mediumistic
condition, stertorous yawns and amazing hiccoughs, gladdened our
eyes and ears. Silence at last prevailed : but nothing happened.
We waited patiently. The table occasionally tilted feebly; sparse
raps, or rather bangs, were heard on the table ;
—nothing else. " The
phenomena lag much," said Eusapia. We were almost disposed to
abandon the attempt for the night, when suddenly things began.
I shall not, in this note, go through the seance in detail, but wish
to record the fact that it has certainly had a very profound effect
on our mental attitude. My own frame of mind, when starting on
this investigation, was that, in view of the concurrent opinion of
practically all the eminent men of science who have investigated
Eusapia's phenomena, it was inconceivable that they could, in turn,
have been deceived by the few petty tricks that have, from time
to time, been detected, and that it Avas therefore probable that the
phenomena were real. At the same time I could not believe in
them. All my own experiments in physical mediumship had resulted
462 E. Fcilding, W. W. Baggally, and, H. Garrington. [part
in the discovery of the most childish frauds. Failure had followed upon
failure. While, therefore, I tended to accept the general hypothesis
that the facts of so-called spiritualistic physical manifestations must,
on the evidence, be regarded as probably existent, my mental habit
had become so profoundly sceptical, when it came to considering
any given alleged instance of them, that I had ceased to have any
expectation of finding it able to bear examination. The first seance
with Eusapia, accordingly, provoked chiefly a feeling of surprise
the second, of irritation—irritation at finding oneself confronted with
a foolish but apparently insoluble problem. The third seance, at
which a trumpery trick was detected, came as a sort of relief. At
the fourth, where the control of the medium was withdrawn from
ourselves, my baffled intelligence sought to evade the responsibility
of meeting facts by harbouring grotesque doubts as to the com-
petency of the eminent professors, who took our places, to observe
things properly ; while at the fifth, where this course was no longer
possible, as I was constantly controlling the medium myself, the
mental gymnastics involved in seriously facing the necessity of con-
cluding in favour of what was manifestly absurd, produced a kind
of intellectual fatisrue.
After the sixth, for the first time, I find that my mind,
from which the stream of events had hitherto run off like rain
from a macintosh, is at last beginning to be capable of absorbing
them. For the first time I have the absolute conviction that our
observation is not mistaken. I realise, as an appreciable fact in
life, that from an empty cabinet I have seen hands and heads come
forth, that from behind the curtain of that empty cabinet I have
been seized by living fingers, the existence and position of the very
nails of which could be felt. I have seen this extraordinary
woman sitting visible outside the curtain, held hand and foot by
my colleagues, immobile, except for the occasional straining of a
limb, while some entity within the curtain has over and over again
pressed my hand in a position clearly beyond her reach. I refuse
to entertain the possibility of a doubt that we were the victims of
a hallucination. I appreciate exactly the fact that ninety-nine
people out of a hundred will refuse to entertain the possibility of a
doubt that it could be anything else. And, remembering my own
belief of a very short time ago, I shall not be able to complain,
though I shall unquestionably be annoyed, when I find that to be
the case. I shall be told that this sudden declaration of conviction
is absurdly hasty, highly unphilosophical and unworthy of a student
LIX.] Sittings ivith Eusapia : Seance VI. 463
of psychical science. Perhaps it is ; but the precise moment at
which conviction is reached differs in individuals not, I think, according
to the cogency of the facts presented to them, but according to
their willingness to abandon a position which they feel to have
become untenable. Now, I have no prejudices whatever in favour
of a set of ideas to which my own previous experiences, limited
enough, happen to have led me, and am prepared to abandon
them at once as soon as fresh experiences come along to lead to a
different conclusion.
Since writing the above I have read the notes of C. and B. The
former has apparently submitted with the same completeness as
myself to the evidence of facts. B., who is evidently passing through
the same stages as I did in my earlier seances, toys with the sug-
gestion of an apparatus, by way of easing his mind. It would be
an interesting problem to set before a manufacturer of conjuring
machines to devise an apparatus capable of producing alternatively
a black flat profile face, a square face on a long neck, and a 'cello
like face on a warty nobbly body two feet long; also, a white hand
with moveable fingers, a yellowish hand, and a hand invisible
altogether, —all these for use outside the curtain. Further, for use
within, a hand with practicable living thumb and fingers having
nails, capable of reaching high above the medium's head, of patting,
pinching and pulling hair, and of so vigorously grasping B. by the
coat as almost to upset him into the cabinet. Our manufacturer
must so construct the apparatus that it can be actuated unseen by
a somewhat stout and elderly lady clad in a tight plain gown, who
sits outside the curtain held visibly by hand and foot, in such a
way as to escape the observation of two practical conjurors clinging
about her and on the look-out for its operation. It must further
be of such dimensions as to be concealed about the lady while
parading herself for inspection upon a chair, clad in her stays and
a short flannel petticoat,
R p>> Dec 6th> 19QS_
Remarks ox Seance VII.
December 7th, 1908.
This seance proved remarkable in several respects ; in the
first place, for a long-continued exhibition of the curious
" dress-swelling " phenomenon which has been so often described
by other observers, but which, though we had on several
464 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
occasions witnessed it, we had hitherto not had any good
opportunity of adequately examining. This phenomenon, which
occurred in the No. 1 light (light sufficient to read small
print by), continued for about a quarter of an hour, and is
described in detail in the shorthand report and B.'s note.
In the second place, it was the first seance, indeed the only
one, at which a hand came out from within the curtain and
was both felt and clearly seen. This occurred at 12.9 a.m.,
when B. was grasped on the shoulder by a hand visible to
himself and C. (see B.'s note). Further, at 11.20 p.m. a hand
came out over the medium's head, visible to F., C. and M.
from the stenographer's table, ringing a large tea-bell which
had been placed on the table inside the curtain. It attached
it with extraordinary rapidity to the medium's hair, leaving it
there, and disappeared, to return about a quarter of a minute
afterwards, detach it, ring it over the medium's head and throw
it on to the seance table. Both the medium's hands were
separately and adequately controlled at the time.
Again, this was the only seance at which brilliant lights
were visible to all present. See shorthand report at 11.36 p.m.
It will be noticed that whereas three of the lights seen were
of one kind, viz. a steady though very bright blue-green light
of a certain size, the fourth was wholly different, viz. an
intermittent sparkling light accompanied by a cracking sound,
like the spark between the poles of an electric battery.
Finally, the seance was remarkable for the exceedingly suspicious
character of certain of the phenomena taken by themselves and
judging by their appearance only, though not by the control which
existed at the moment of their production. Among these must
be included the white object like a ball of white muslin which
appeared at 11.32 p.m.; and the persona who professed to kiss
B. through the curtain at 12 o'clock and onwards, and shortly
afterwards appeared twice, looking like an arm wrapped up in
something black, and moving just as the medium's arm would
if free, pivoted on her shoulder. A discussion of these pheno-
mena will be found in B.'s note.
Many other phenomena of great interest occurred, e.g. the
" white thing " with apparently a white arm attached to it, at
10.57 p.m.; the loud bang and three subsequent thumps of a
different quality of sound which were made on the table at
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VII. 465
11.1 p.m. in response to four vigorous nods of the medium's
head ; and the stroking by fingers of F.'s hand while behind
the medium's head, at 11.17 p.m., both her hands being
separately held in front of her.
Shorthand Report of Seance VII.
December 1th, 1908.
Present—F., C, B., and 31, shorthand writer.
The smcdl table has been tied to steeples in the cabinet to prevent
" John " from pulling it out and upsetting things. In the middle
of it is a board carrying a lump of wet clay. To the medium's
left of the clay is a trumpet, and to the right a flageolet. Behind
the flageolet is a tea bell and at the bach is a toy piano on the
top of which lies a guitar. Hanging to the medium's right against
the wall is a photographic plate enclosed in red and black paper
above, a smcdl tambourine. In the middle hangs another bell and
to the left hangs a broken guitar. On the floor, in front of the
table, and to the left, is a smcdl stool with a tambourine upon it.
The small bell hangs 1\ meters from the floor, the smcdl tambourine
B
the same, and the broken guitar 1 m. 30 c. The lights are : No. 1
= 150 volts, 1 0 candles, unshaded. No. 20 volts, 10 candles,
unshaded. No. 3 = 110 volts, 10 candles, ruby, shaded toith one
thickness of thin tissue cream coloured paper, and one thickness of a
2g
466 E. Feildimg, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
white silk handkerchief hung over it so that the whole handkerchief
is illumined with a red glow. No. If, = 110 volts, 5 candles, ruby,
unshaded. If anything, Light No. ^ is found to give a stronger
light than No. 3, so shaded.
9.30 p.m. Stance begins.
Light No. I.
9.42 p.m. Tilts begin.
9.47 p.m. F. Medium calls my attention to the swelling of her
dress on the left side.
[Her dress was swelling out about half way up, going in and out
like a half-filled balloon. F., Dec. 8/08.]
I watched it and she said " Catch at it quickly with your hand."
1 said " No, I would, rather wait until it becomes stronger." She
then said, " Very well ; sit between it and the lamp, so as to leave
it in the shade."
C. At the time of this blowing out, she showed us that we were
holding different feet, and I put my hand down and felt her two
feet, showing that she was not doing this with her feet.
[The manifestations became slightly stronger and cdl came near to
watch. She asked us laughingly to examine for her " mctcchina."
F., Dec. 8/08.]
B. She lifts her dress and her petticoats to show us that there
is nothing underneath.
F. There is absolutely nothing under her dress.
[Remembering an experiment of Prof. Curie's which I had seen
in Paris, when a small stool was placed about a foot from
Fusapia's dress, which thereupon swelled out, touched the leg of the
stool and immediately caused it to run rapidly in towards her, I
asked her to try and repeat it. She said, " We can always try
it, but it does not defend upon me!' J took the small stool from
the cabinet, ascertained that it had, no attachment, and placed it on
the ground, to her left. She pulled the curtain of the cabinet partly
over it. F, Pec. 8/08.]
F. She asked me to make contact between the curtain and her
dress. I have felt severed times between her and the stool right
cdong the floor, especiedly after the last time she touched the curtain,
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VII. 467
[Light L]
and since I have passed my hand, behuecn her and the stool she
has not touched the curtain in any way. There is therefore, at the
present moment, no possibility of any attachment between her leg
and the leg of the stool. Her foot is quite unquestioncdjly on the
whole of mine, I can feci it, I can see it, and everything else.
Her right foot is on my left foot and she keeps moving it about.
C. As we are talking, the corner of her dress keeps moving out
and making; towards the curtain and then moves back a«ain.
9.58 p.m. F. Big bulge of dress.
M. notes : I went round and saw it.
F. Another bis; bulge.
B. I saw it also.
[ We remained a considerable time xvaiting for this experiment to
come off, she holding my hand towards the stool, but iiothing hap-
pened except the bulging of her dress. The stool did, not move. F.,
Dec. 8/OS.]
10.0 p.m. " John" tilts five times for less light. Medium is
annoyed and says " No."
10.5 p.m. The tilts continued to ask for less light and eventually
she yielded.
Light No. II.
10.6 p.m. Medium says that (J., being unwell, gives a weak "current"
and asks him to change places luith B.
c.
10.11 p.m. Various tilts of an interesting but non-evidential
character.
468 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light II.]
10.15 p.m. Various tilts and raps of non-evidential character.
10.15 'p.m. The stance tabic is turned broadways at our request.
10.20 p.m. The table tilts on the two legs towards B. Non-
evidential.
10.26 p.m. Movements of the curtain.
10. 30 p.m. The little stool is knocked over.
F. Her left foot was immovable on my left foot, and her left
hand was on the table with mine, visible.
B. Her right hand was on the table on my corner and visible,
my left hand on her two knees, and her right foot on the toes of
my left foot.
F. The little stool which I had put under the curtain has gone
somewhere.
[Since I had felt that there was no attachment bchucen her and
this stool, there had been no relaxation of control, except during the
moment that the seance tabic was being turned round, and I am
certain that slue had no opportunity of meddng any attachment.
F. She squeezes my hand and the curtain comes out and covers
my chair.
F. Her hand was about 2\ feet from the curtain and her foot
on mine, as before.
B. Same control as before. Her back is at least a foot from
the curtains.
c.
F., Dec. 8/08.]
ltx.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VII. 469
[Light II.]
F. Immediately after, she held my hand out away from her
towards the small stool, which is somewhere (under the curtains),
I do not know where, and it jumped.
10.33 p.m. F. I cannot sec the, little stool because it is under the
curtains.
F. Both her hands are free but quite visible. Her left foot is
on mine.
B. I also see both her hands, free, and both her knees, which
are under the table, and her right foot is on my left foot.
10.34 p.m. Medium asks for less light. Light No. 3.
Light III.
F. In this light I can sec across the room, I can see the bar at
the head of my bedstead (about lip. feet away), and I can see B.'s
face opposite me quite plainly. I can sec all the separate fingers
of the medium at a distance of two feet from my face.
G. I can see medium's face.
B. I can recognise F. opposite me. I cam also sec the crack in the
table.
10.46 p.m. Some object in the cabinet moves.
The seance table gives three violent tilts towards medium.
B. Perfect control of the medium on both sides.
[These tilts were without contact, but we had grown tired of
giving elaborate control of minor phenomena. F., Dec. 8/08.]
10.53 p.m. F. The curtain comes out towards me again.
B. The control is the same as before.
F. Yes.
10.5 If.
p.m. Medium ashed if she could touch the curtain for a
moment, but she did not attach anything to it.
10.56 p.m. Four tilts of the table without contact, meaning
" Talk."
[F. proceeded to deliver an address on bimetallism, while we tocrc
all paying close attention to the curtain, as this is genercdly a sign
of something about to happen. Dec. 8/08.]
470 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light III.]
10.57 p.m. B. A white thing comes out.
0. I saw that white thing come out of the curtain, apparently
round the right-hand curtain, over the table.
F. Her left hand is motionless on her lap, in mine, and I can
feel the thumb, and her left toe and heel are planted firmly on my
right foot.
B. Her right hand, which I am absolutely certain is her right
hand, as I feel the fingers, rests on my left hand, both resting in
her right lap. Her right foot on my left foot.
B. Not only did I see the white thing, but also what appeared
to be a white arm attached to it. Note the medium is dressed
in black.
10.58. p.m. F. Something white appeared above the medium's
shoulder about two feet away.
F. I hold the left hand absolutely, feeling the thumb.
B. Her right hand on my left hand, both on my knee. Her
right foot on my left foot.
10.59 p.m. F. Medium says, "I am going to look, for something"
and pinches my rigid hand in her left, stretched straight behind
towards the cabinet.
The small stool continues to move under her hand.
F. My right hand being below her hand. Her foot on mine, and
I have verified the foot control.
B. Her right hand has just left my left hand for a moment.
Both hands are now on her right knee, and her right foot con-
tinues completely on my left foot.
[When Eusapia removes her hand in this way, she always mentions
it beforehand. F., Dec. 8/OS.]
11.1 p.m. Four nods of her head are followed by four thumps
on the table. She did not touch the table with her head.
[The first of these thumps was like a blow struck by a mallet.
F., Dec. 8/08.]
F. Her hands were on her lap, my right hand being on her left
knee and her left foot on mine.
B. Control exactly the same as before.
LIX.] Sittings with Ensapia: Seance VII. 471
[Light III.]
11.2 p.m. She says that she will try to levitate the tahle
whereupon a partial levitation takes place.
F. Her left hand being in ray right on her lap and not touching
the table at all. Left foot firmly on mine.
B. During the levitation I held her right hand in my left hand
resting in her lap. Her right foot on my left foot.
11.7 p.m. F. I asked if "John" would show himself outside the
curtain, whereupon the table tilts four times, as far as I can
see without any contact, meaning " talk."
[Nonsense talked as before, close attention being paid. F., Dec. 8/08.]
F. Something has shot out about H- feet towards B.'s head. It
seemed to me an almost misty black thing this time. I could
not see it thoroughly as it was not against the illuminated back-
ground of the door.
F. I have got hold of her left hand in my right on her lap.
11.10 p.m. Medium says that she did not like the sSance table that
way and it is again turned round to its usual position. Medium
puts the right hand curtain over the table.
c.
11.11 p.m. F. She has asked me to put my right hand on her back.
11.12 p.m. F. She says that she is going to find something with
her foot. She is kicking about with her foot [i.e. under the table
in front of her. F, Dec. 8/08.]
11.13 p.m. F. The small table in the cabinet was shaken and
something fell from it, while she was kicking with her left foot
with mine under the seance table.
472 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Light III]
[It was then explained, to " John " that he need not trouble about
trying to bring out the small table, as it was fastened, and he was
asked to confine Ids attention to the objects on it. F., Dec. 8/08.]
B. She had her right hand on my left hand always resting on
her knee, and she moved her leg two or three times. I followed
the movements with my leg.
11.17 p.m. F. I am touched on the back of the fingers. My
hand is on the back of her neck and gentle finders came and
touched my hand with their tips.
F. Her left hand is visibly in mine on the table. Her left foot
tightly on mine.
B. She has her right hand in my left hand resting on the table,
under the curtain. Her right foot is still on my left foot.
[Here the obvious suggestion to a critic is that I must have
been holding a dummy hand under the curtain ; but I continuously
verified that it was a natural hand, and a right hand, by feeling
the fingers and thumb and feeling their movements. B., Dec. 8/08.]
11.20 p.m. C. A bell from the cabinet is lifted from the small
table in the cabinet, through the curtains, and put upon the
medium's head and remains there.
F. I heard the bell, which had been on the table in the cabinet,
begin to ring, and then it suddenly appeared outside the curtain
and came over the medium's head, and it hung there and went
on ringing. She told me it was tied to her head. I felt with
my fingers and felt something like muslin tying it to her hair.
As I was looking at it, I suddenly saw a white thing which I
thought was the medium's right hand, come to untie the bell,
ring it hard and throw it on to the seance table. This was
within one foot of my nose. I could see the medium's face
perfectly.
[See my expanded note below. F., Dec. 8/08.]
B. 1 saw the bell come out and lie on the medium's head, and
also saw it thrown from her head on to the table.
C. I saw the hand coming to untie the bell and heard the bell
ringing above her head, also saw the hand throw it out on the
table.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance VII. 473
[Light III.]
[I also saw this hand distinctly lift, ring and throw the bell, but
thought that it was F. or medium's hand. M., Dec. 8/08.]
[B. I did not see the hand. Dec. 8/08.]
F. Her left hand was visibly in my right all the time on the
table.
B. During the whole of this phenomenon her right hand was
resting on my left hand on the table and her right foot on my
left foot.
F. I had got the whole of her left hand on the table visibly in
my right on my corner of the table, so that it is perfectly clear
that there cannot be any question of substitution.
11.26 p.m. F. A white thing again came out over her head.
11.30 p.m. C. I saw a white object,—square—distinctly come
out from behind the right-hand curtain at a distance of about
three inches over the medium's head.
B. I also saw this white object, but 1 think only a side view
of it. I could see irregularities on its surface.
F. It was on the other side of the curtain from me so that I
did not see it. The medium's head was resting against my head,
and her left hand is on the corner of the table in mine. Foot
absolutely on mine.
B. My control of foot and hand is exactly the same as before.
11.32 p.m. C. A white object came out from behind the curtain.
This time it issued about 18 inches in front of the curtain and
stayed out about one second and then disappeared.
B. I also distinctly saw the object, as it was quite close to me.
F. I saw it this time because it came round with a swing. As
far as I could see it looked to me like a bunch of white muslin,
and it seemed to bring the curtain with it as it moved towards
me.
[I only got a very fleeting glimpse of this object, but I confess
that it had a most suspicious appearance. It was just as though
the medium had put a ball of white muslin out from the further
side of the right curtain with her right hand, brought it towards
474 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light III.]
me, making the curtain move with it, as would have been the
case if it had really been her arm. F., Dec. 8/08.]
F. My control on this side was quite complete.
B. My control also quite complete. I confirm with my hand
that her foot is really on mine.
11.36 p.m. F. The medium puts her head behind the curtain
and makes a sudden dive, to the right.
[At the same time I thought I saw a white object appear outside
the curtain to the extreme right, much further than she could
have reached with her head. The movement was similar to the
movement she makes with her other limbs when she wishes to
stimulate the production of the phenomena. F., Dec. 8/08.]
F. A light Hashed out about a foot behind and above the
medium's head. It was of a brilliant bluish-green colour.
[It was a steady light and lasted about two seconds. F., Dec.
8/08.]
M. I saw it also, it seemed to me to be about the size of a six-
penny piece, like the eye of a cat in the dark, so strong that it
made me wink.
0. and B. did not see this light.
11.37 p.m. F. Now another light has come out, this time on
the medium's lap.
F. Her left hand is on the table in mine.
[/ asked if the lights might be shown to the others, who had not yet
seen them owing to the. position of the curtain. F., Fee. 8/08.]
11.42 p.m. Five tilts of the seance table, apparently without
•contact, ask for less light.
F. My hand on her lap with hers.
B. My hand on hers, control of feet also the same.
11.4-5 p.m. Light No. 4- Sec head note; this light is if anything
stronger than Light III.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VII. 475
Light IV.
B. Both C. and I saw a brilliant light inside the cabinet about
2 J feet from medium, inside the right-hand curtain.
[The light was of a bluish-green colour, quite bright, and about
three feet from the ground behind the extreme edge of the right
curtain. B., Dec. 8/08.]
B. Her right hand was on my left hand, but she had lifted her
foot and placed it on the bar of her chair. I have verified this
fact with my hand.
F. Her hand in mine on this side of the table, and her left foot
was on mine.
11.46 p.m. F. There it is again over her head. She kicked
with her leg. It is a different kind of light this time, because it
seemed to crack. It was not a bright steady light as before, but a
small sparkling light, and appeared about four to five inches above
her head.
M. I also saw this light and agree with F.'s description.
B. Sniffs behind the curtain, and says, " There are no indications of
the smell of phosphorus."
[I smelt no phosphorus either. F., Dec. 8/08.]
11.5Jf.
p.m. Table tilts four limes, meaning "talk."
B. Something has touched my jacket from behind the curtain.
[Medium having ashed particularly that the se'ancc should close
before twelve was told it vxis novj time to stop. She refused to do
so, however, and said that " Some one " was coming for B. She
said that he would kiss him. Dec. 8/08.]
B. Something pressed through the curtains against my face and
made a sound.
F. All this time her left hand is in mine on her lap. I know it
is the left hand. Her head is always resting on mine.
B. My control as before except that she has now taken her
right foot from her chair and is now pressing my left foot with it.
11.58 p.m. B. Something has touched me twice.
Medium says that a mem is coming out towards B.
476 E. Feileliwg, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light IV.]
[Here medium was told of the clay winch had been placed inside the
cabinet, and an imprint of fingers was asked for. She felt F.'s
the best of my belief, had any opportunity of seeing it. F., June
12 p.m. B. Something pushes the curtain towards me from behind
the curtain, close to me, and it makes a sound similar to that
produced by the clicking of the nails.
B. The medium heal previously said that this person teas going to
give me a kiss.
12.1 a.m. B. The thing has again pressed against the curtain
and made the same sound as before.
B. The control the same as before of both hands and feet. Her
right hand on the table during these last phenomena. Her right
foot is on my left foot.
F. Control the same.
[This " something," although not stated in the notes, touched my
face twice while making the clicking sound. B., Dec. 8/08.]
12.2 a.m. F. While the medium was resting her head on my
shoulder, violent movements of the curtain took place from inside
the cabinet.
12.J/, a.m. F. She has now put my hand across her two knees so
as to show that it was not her foot that did it.
12.5 a.m. F. asks for the thing that kissed B. to show itself out-
side the cabinet ; medium says it will.
12.5 \ a.m. F. I saw a thing exactly like the head of a nine-
pin or a small wooden head. It stayed out about 3 seconds.
[See my extended note below. F., Dec. 8/08.']
B. I saw this object come out too.
[It came from the furthest side of the right curtain, past B.'s
head, rather slowly, towards F., above the level of our heads,
and then went back. B. and F., Dec. 8/08.]
25/09.]
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VII. 477
[Light IV.]
F. It is certainly not the medium's left hand, which is motionless
on this corner of the table.
B. And it is certainly not the right hand, because I had control
of it all the time. My foot control is the same.
12.9 a.m. B. I saw a hand distinctly come out of the [extreme
right of the] curtain ; it grasped my left shoulder and I felt its
thumb and four fingers. My control is the same as before.
[See my expanded note below. B., Dec. 8/08.]
C. I saw the white hand which seemed to me to remain out
about 3 seconds.
F. That was the first time that a visible hand has caught hold vf
anyone outside the curtain.
F. I was complaining to the medium that the head which came
out was not large enough to be a man's head. She said that
she had not seen it. While we were talking it came out again.
This time it appeared to me to be larger and it waggled about
for quite a time between B. and me.
F. I had her left hand absolutely in my left hand and her left
foot on my right foot and my right hand across both knees.
B. My control is the same as before.
12.19 a.m. F. asks medium to get " John" to play the toy piano.
She says, "We will try." Medium says to B., "Flay the 'piano
with your fingers [on the table]." B. imitates the playing of a
piano, but nothing happens and medium says, " Non lo fa " (" He
wont do it ").
12.25 a.m. Movements of the table.
F. I have my right leg between her leg and the table and it is
curled round the table leg. Her left arm was motionless across my
shoulder, my right hand is on her two knees and her left foot on
my foot.
B. She holds my left hand with her right hand. She squeezes
my hand while this levitation takes place. My hand was also on
her knee, in her hand. Her right foot on my left foot.
478 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggcdly, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light IV.]
12.27 a.m. A similar movement has again happened.
F. Her left hand was off the table. My right hand was this time
pinched by her right hand on her lap.
B. My control the same as before, except that she is squeezing
both our hands.
[Her right hand held both B.'s and mine, her left hand was
visible to me, but free, some distance above my corner of the table.
F., Dec. 8/08.]
12.30 a.m. Medium stands up, as also F. and B.
Lights Nos. 3, '2, and 1 successively, and stance is terminated.
Note by E. Feilding.
It is difficult to say precisely why, but last night's seance marks
a certain set-back in the process of my mental absorption of these
phenomena. It is not that we have the impression that our
observation left any loop-hole for fraud on the part of Eusapia, for I
have never been more absolutely certain of the efficiency of our
control. More than this, owing to the disposition of the silk
handkerchief which hung about and below the red lamp, producing
a larger radiant surface, the light was somewhat better than at the
preceding seance; while the manifestations themselves appeared with an
unhurried deliberacy which admitted of far more detailed observation.
The set-back is probably due to the preposterous character of the mani-
festations themselves. For example, Eusapia had announced that some-
body was going to kiss B. through the curtain. Presently, the curtain
did approach his face, making a clicking sound, a thoroughly bad
imitation of a kiss, such as would be made by clicking the thumb
nail against that of the middle finger. This happened two or three
times, and I asked if it were "John." "No," said Eusapia, "it is
un' altra persona." I then tried, with sweet words, to lure this
" altra persona" to show his face outside the curtain. "He will
do so," said Eusapia, and he did. From the extreme right of the
curtain there appeared a thing like a knobbed nine-pin, or like an
arm with a closed fist, wrapped up in something black. It came
slowly towards me (who was sitting on Eusapia's left) as though
pivoted on her right shoulder, made a kind of grotesque reverence,
about a foot above the level of my head and retired with deliberation,
LIX.] Sittings uith Eusapia: Seance VII. 479
having been visible at least three seconds. I asked Eusapia who it
was. She said she did not know the name, but that it was a man,
clean shaved. I complained that it didn't look in the least like a
man, that its head was too small. As an acquaintance it would
be, in fact, preposterous, a face fit only for a cocoanut shy. It
immediately reappeared, this time larger, but still an outrage on
any kind of humanity. I am absolutely certain of the control of the
hand held by me. B. is equally certain of the medium's right hand,
which, if the head were any arm of hers, could alone have been
in play. What then was this ridiculous "altra persona?" B. has
a provisional theory. For myself I can suggest none.
The incident of the bell was remarkable. By measurement
made subsequently, the bell was situated behind and slightly
to the right of the medium, about 2 feet from her right shoulder.
It announced itself by ringing for a moment in the cabinet ; it
then came out, appeared over the medium's head, ringing as
it came, and remained dangling over her left ear within one
foot of my face. "It's tied on," she said. I felt with my
left hand, and found that something, which, in the dim light
seemed like a strand of muslin, but which I afterwards ascer-
tained was probably a loose piece of velvet ribbon she wore in her
hair, was passed through the handle of the bell and attached it to
her hair. I watched the bell for a moment or two, and was just
about to untie and detach it, when I saw a naturahlooking hand
appear quietly from behind her neck, undo the bell, ring it over
her head and throw it on the table in front of her. While the
hand was detaching the bell, I made no doubt but that the medium
had found it uncomfortable, and had freed her right hand to take
it away. When, however, it was rung and thrown upon the table,
it struck me as a curious action for the medium to do herself,
and I asked B. whether he still held her right hand. He said
he had done so all the time. That he was mistakenly holding her
left hand was impossible, as this was on my corner of the table, in my
right and perfectly visible. It must be noted that the light was
sufficiently good for the stenographer, seated at the further side of
a separate table, and distant from the medium about six feet (by
subsequent measurement), to see the hand while the bell was being
detached.
Of the lights sufficient description has been made in the report.
The first one, visible to me and to the stenographer, about a foot
or eighteen inches above Eusapia's head, and within the curtains,
480 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
as I immediately ascertained with my left hand, had the appearance
of a brilliant self-luminous aquamarine ; of the second, on her lap,
I only caught a glimpse ; the fourth, visible to the stenographer
and myself, was of a wholly different character from the first, and
resembled the sparks given off between the poles of a battery. That
the manufacture of these luminosities is subject to volition seems
shown by the readiness with whicli a light appeared, at request, in a
different place, so as to be visible to the other members of the
circle.
It will be gathered from the notes that, notwithstanding the
careful description of the control, and our precautions in ascertaining
that we each held separate hands, and real hands, were unremitting
several of the phenomena wore a most suspicious appearance. I
refer especially to the Aunt Sally kind of head, to the imitation
kiss bestowed upon B., and to the white muslin ball and the movement
of the curtain accompanying its movement (though the glance I
had of this was so fleeting that I cannot be quite sure of my
observation). Eusapia took a long time coming to herself when
the light was turned up, though she had never, during this seance,
appeared to be in as deep a trance as during the previous one. As
we walked downstairs she said that she did not feel nearly so tired,
but that her mind was very confused and she feared that the
seance had not been a good one. Notwithstanding the fact that
the programme of phenomena had been added to by the appearance
of hands outside the curtains which did things, and of so-called
heads which offered themselves for more detailed observation, it
cannot be said that the impression left by this seance was nearly
so strong as that we received from the 6th, though we are as far
away as ever from finding the slightest ground for imputing fraud
to Eusapia. The singular lights, of two different kinds, and appearing
under conditions which seem to preclude their having been produced
by trickery, were, however, of very great interest.
E. F., Dec. 8th, 1908.
Note by W. W. Baggally.
The results obtained at this seance tend to strengthen my growing
conviction of the supernormal nature of some of the phenomena
produced by Eusapia. Others, however, occurred under circumstances
which, although they in no way diminish our increasing assurance of
the occasional exhibition of a supernormal force, suggested an element
LIX.] Sittings loith Eusapia: Seance VII. 481
of fraud, since they were not what Eusapia asserted them to be.
Thus at 12.5J- she said that the object that presented itself from
out of the curtain was a head ; whereas in appearance it more
resembled an arm with a closed fist, covered by some black material.
Again, at 12 she remarked that the sounds like the clicking together
of a thumb and finger heard by me when my cheek was touched
from behind the curtain, were kisses. The reason why we did not
conclude that these particular phenomena were fraudulent was that
we were quite sure that the control of the hands and feet of
Eusapia was perfect at the time. I will return to these special
manifestations later on.
As regards the nature of my own personal control, it will not be
necessary to describe it in detail, as I have already done so in my
notes of the seances of the 2nd and 4th December. I will only say
that I took the same precautions to assure myself that it was really
Eusapia's right hand and right foot that I had under my charge,
and that I did not relax my vigilance for a moment, but concen-
trated my attention, at the critical moment when each phenomena
occurred, more on the control than on the manifestation.
It should be noted that equally remarkable results were obtained
when F. and C. controlled as when F. and I, or C. and I did so.
I attach great importance to the phenomenon that occurred at the
very beginning of the seance, viz. the " gonfiamento " or swelling
out of Eusapia's dress which took place before and after F. had
placed the little stool on the floor on the left side of the medium
in order to try and repeat the experiment which he had witnessed
with the late M. Curie and his colleagues of the Institut Gdndral
Psi/chologique in Paris. If the stringent conditions under which these
movements of Eusapia's dress took place are considered, it will be
seen that this phenomenon, although not of a startling character,
was of great evidential value. She had hardly sat down when she
called our attention to the movement of her dress. The light had
not been lowered : it was the strongest that we used at these
seances—not shaded. By it I could read small print and see every
object in the room clearly. The medium's hands rested quietly on
the table in full view of us all, and her feet were under the strictest
control of F. and C. We all watched the peculiar movement. The
force under the dress made an evidently intelligent effort to reach
the stool. The bulge in the garment was not a pointed one, but
more like what a breeze of wind would produce. The dress did not,
however, swell out en masse ; it only did so at a certain part, as if a
2 a
482 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggaily, and H. Garrington. [part
small balloon under the garment were pushing it towards the stool.
F. felt right down the dress at the time of the bulging and did
not feel any hard object under it. Eusapia laughingly asked us to
find " la macchina," and thereupon lifted her dress and petticoats. No
apparatus, such as a rod, which the late Dr. Hodgson suggested could
have been employed by her, or an india rubber tube, through which
a gust of wind could have been blown, or anything else, was found.
After Eusapia had lowered her dress, the movement recommenced.
After the swelling occurred the lower edge of the dress touching
the floor slid towards the stool in a peculiar manner. This lower
edge repeatedly advanced and retired slowly ; at each successive
advance gradually diminishing the distance between it and the stool.
I compared this sliding motion in my mind, at the time, to the
movement of a protuberance from the body of a unicellular organism.
F. felt with his hand several times between the dress and the stool
and found no attachment. Thus, the conditions of this phenomenon
were :
(1) It was carried out in good light.
(2) It was seen by all members of the Committee at the same
time. •
(3) No hard object was felt causing the bulge.
(4) No attachment was found between the dress and the stool.
(5) No mechanism was discovered under the dress.
(6) The hands of Eusapia were in full view resting on the
table.
(7) The feet were under absolute control.
The thumps on the table, which took place at 11.1 p.m.,
following the nods of Eusapia's head, were very remarkable. Her
hands, at the time, were on her right lap, under control, and her
feet under control also. I fail to see how, under the prevailing
conditions, she could possibly have produced a very loud sound, as
of a blow struck with a mallet, and the thuds which followed.
The light that I saw at 11.45 p.m. was a bright one of a
bluish-green colour, and of an intensity greater than that produced
by the head of a match when rubbed between the fingers, or by
phosphorised oil. It was a steady light. Neither F. nor myself
perceived any indications of the smell of phosphorus.
I had felt the touch and grasp of a hand at the previous seances.
For the first time, at this one, I clearly saw a hand. It appeared
from behind the right-hand curtain at about 1\ feet from the floor,
Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VII. 483
advanced towards my right shoulder and gave it a strong grip,
after which it disappeared behind the curtain. The hand appeared
to be a man's hand of a natural colour, larger than Eusapia's, which
I subsequently examined. I cannot, however, be sure of the size
of the hand, as it is difficult to judge of the size of objects in a
weak light.
I will now return to the suspicious phenomena. First, before
the black object appeared, viz., at 12.5| a.m., the medium had
said that a head was about to appear. When the object came
out of the cabinet, it looked more like an arm covered with
black material, (possibly part of the cabinet curtain wound round
it), than a head. This gave rise, in my mind, to the suspicion
that it might have been the arm of the medium covered in this
manner, but I explain below the difficulties of this supposition.
F. made the remark that the apparition was not large enough to
be a head, whereupon it came out again, but was now of an
enlarged size. Both F. and myself noticed the increase in its bulk.
Again, when Eusapia had said that some one was coming for
me who would kiss me, I certainly, immediately after she had
made this remark, felt some hard object pressing through the curtain
against my cheek, but it did not feel like a face. It felt like a
closed hand, and the sound that was emitted by it did not resemble
that of a kiss, but was more like the clicking of the nails of a
thumb and of a finger. The difference in the sound was noticed
by F., C, and myself. Doubtless the above phenomena have an
element of a suspicious nature attached to them, but in trying
to explain them by normal means I have to ask myself how,
under the kind of control described in the Report, when exchange
of hands could not take place owing to the medium's hands
being kept too far apart, and when the successive phenomena
would require a series of releases and replacements of her hands
which could not fail to be detected, it was possible for Eusapia
to produce fraudulently the appearance of a black arm first of
one size and then of another, and also, at the same seance,
the appearance of a white arm, while she is dressed in a tight
fitting black dress with tightly fastened sleeves down to her wrists.
I also ask myself how it was possible for her, under the strict
control above indicated, to introduce her hand, undetected, behind
the curtain and produce the imitation of a sound of a kiss with
her fingers. I cannot, in fact, see any way of accounting for
these incidents by normal means. ^ g jj ec 9^ 1908
484 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Remarks on Seance VIII.
December 10th, 1908.
To this seance four friends of F.'s were invited. These were :
Mr. Ryan, a gentleman with a medical training whom F. judged and
who proved to be a particularly painstaking and shrewd observer,
Lord Sudeley and two American ladies, Signora X. and Miss Y.,
daughters of an eminent literary man. These ladies were asked
to examine the medium prior to the seance in a more com-
plete way than had previously been attempted. On her
arrival upstairs Eusapia was invited by them to submit to
an examination in their room, to which she was first taken.
Their detailed report of this examination will be found
appended to the shorthand report. On its conclusion, nothing
of a suspicious character having been found, Eusapia was
immediately brought into the seance room. The small table
within the cabinet was tied down as during the previous
seance, and the disposition of the objects within the cabinet
was the same. The medium's feet were tied to the rungs
of the controllers' chairs, but in such a way only as to
prevent her reaching with them behind her own chair.
The seance began at 9.25, and after about 20 minutes
various minor phenomena, movements and levitations of the
seance table, began. More than an hour, however, elapsed
before the manifestations became at all powerful, but once
they did start, they followed one another with extreme rapidity,
making adequate description and note-taking extremely difficult.
At first they were of the usual character, movements of the
table, sometimes without any apparent contact by the medium,
movements of the curtain, often of great violence, touches on |
the controllers to either side, and loud noises within the
curtain.
Just after 11.55 the first of a series of transportations of
objects which had been placed on the small table behind the
curtain took place. R. was controlling to the medium's left,
and F. to her right. A violent movement of the left curtain
on R.'s side occurred, ending in its being thrown over to
the further end of the seance table, and the trumpet came out
on to R.'s shoulder and slid down his right arm ; the medium's
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VIII. 485
two hands being separately held at a distance from one
another, while the light (No. Ill,) was sufficient to enable
her head to be continuously visible. A few minutes after-
wards, the toy piano followed the trumpet, striking E. gently
on the head and falling violently to the ground ; and again
at a later period, about 12.23, the board carrying a lump
of wet clay which had originally been placed on the small
table in the cabinet, directly behind the medium, emerged
from the extreme left of the curtain, behind R.'s right shoulder,
landed upon his shoulder, slid slowly down his right arm to
the table on which the medium was holding his right hand,
crossed the table, a distance of about 10 to 12 inches, and
stopped on the top of F.'s right hand, under which was the
right hand of the medium. '
Of the three transportations this
was the most interesting, owing to the size of the object
lifted (the board was about 12 ins. x 8 ins., and the lump
of clay standing on it about the size of an ordinary Genoa
cake while the total weight was 1 k. 700 gr. = 3
-
6 lbs.), and
the deliberacy of its movement, as well as to the fact that
its progress was followed by at least one observer, C, from
the moment that it first appeared outside the curtain. C,
who was standing behind F.'s chair to the medium's right,
first saw the clay at the side of the curtain near the window,
and reports (see his note attached to the shorthand report)
that he saw a white opaque object about 6 ins. x 3 ins.
apparently carrying it. The degree of light can be judged by
the distance (6 to 8 ft.) from which he was able to see the
clay at its first appearance, a degree of light which makes it
inconceivable that it could have been carried by either of the
medium's hands, which were resting, perfectly visible, on the
table.
At 12.46 a.m. the flageolet came out, unseen however, rapped
three times on F.'s head, and fell on his shoulder, at a time
when F. was holding the medium's right hand close to his
face, and R. reported that he had thorough control of her left
and very shortly afterwards the bell began ringing inside the
curtain and was deposited on the top of the medium's head
from between the parting of the curtains, F. seeing it arrive
there. The only distinctly new phenomenon that happened at
this seance was one which took place at about 1.7 a.m. It
486 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
has already been stated that the medium's feet had been tied
by cords attached to the rungs of the controllers' chairs. Just
after 1.5 a.m. (though not noted at the time) the medium,
evidently foreseeing the phenomenon (whether fraudulently
accomplished or not), asked F. to verify the fastenings of her
left foot. He stooped under the table and verified the fastenings
of both feet and then resumed his place, with his hand on
Eusapia's head, supporting it, as she said she was tired, and
seemed to be falling into a deeper state of trance. About
2 minutes afterwards, a hand appeared between the parting of
the curtains over the medium's head and dropped upon it,
close to F.'s hand, a coil of rope. This proved to be the
end of the cord which B. had originally fastened with four
tightly drawn reef-knots round the medium's left ankle, and
which F. thought he had verified just previously. See the
shorthand report and F.'s note attached.
In addition to these transportations of objects, many other
interesting phenomena took place in the course of the seance.
See especially the appearance of a large white object at
12.14 a.m., seen from opposite by F. and C, and sideways
by E., thus probably accounting for the varying descriptions
given of it by the different observers. Further, many touches
and grasps of hands, some of them (e.g. those on C. occurring
at about 12.47 a.m. and 1 a.m.) at a distance of about 3 feet
from the curtain, and about the same from the medium in
conditions of light and control which made it inconceivable
that she could have produced them fraudulently.
Shorthand Report of Seance VIII.
December 10///, 1908.
Present: F., B., C, Ryan, Lord Sudeley, Signora X., Miss Y.,
and M., stenographer.
Lights as in Stance VII.
Mediums legs tied to the legs of the controllers' chairs, leaving
feet play. [The measurement is omitted in the shorthand report.
The medium's feet were not tied closely to the chairs, but so as
to prevent her reaching with them behind her own chair. F.,
May 18/09.]
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance VIII. 487
[Lights as in Seance VII. Small table in cabinet tied clown, and
disposition of objects upon it as before. F., May, 19/09.]
9.
c
2o p.m. Seance begem.
Light No. I.
M
9.42 p.m. Non-evidential tilts begin.
9.49 p.m. Eaps in table follow gestures by medium, non-evidential.
Medium asks F. to rap on table. He does so, and a very poor
imitation of the rhythms follow, non-evidential, owing to her
right hand being on the table.
10.6 p.m. Medium asks for less light. Light II.
10.15 p.m. F. The table tilts towards medium, and then a
complete levitation of it.
F. Her hands on the table, holding and above C.'s and my
hands. Her left foot on mine.
C. Her right foot was just touching my left foot. My left knee
pressing against her right knee.
10.18 p.m. Two complete levitations of the table closely follow-
ing one upon the other.
F. She had asked all except the controllers to take their hands
off the table, and they had accordingly sat back. My right hand
across both her knees. Her left foot undoubtedly on mine. Both
her hands on the table and visible.
Lord s
Light II.
488 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light II.]
C. Her right foot pressing against my left foot. My left knee
pressing against her right knee. I passed my hand between her
body and the table several times [showing that there was no hook
or attachment. C, Dec. 11/08.]
10.21 p.m. Further non-evidential movements.
10.24 p.m. F. The table was merely balancing.
F. The medium raised both C.'s and my hands off the table, and
then the table rocked to and fro [on the two legs to medium's
right. F., Dec. 11/08] four or five times.
F. Her hands are not touching the table. Her foot is on my
foot, and there is a clear space all the way down this table leg.
C. F. and I both had our hands on the medium's knees while
the rocking was going on.
10.81 p.m. F. The medium looks as if she is getting sleepy.
F. After two or three minutes of complete silence, she held my
hand down towards the bottom of the curtain, and something
black flashed out near me. [This was very dimly seen ; I do
not know what it was. F., Dec. 11/08.]
B. I saw that.
F. Her foot on my toe.
10.34- P-m- F. She asks me to hold my hand out towards the curtain,
and she vmnts the chain made. She asks whether she can touch
the curtain; does so, and, then puts her hand back to the table.
I can see my hand, and am moving it between her and the curtain
[shotoing that when she touched the curtain she made no attach-
ment. F. Dec. 11/08]. She holds her hand towards the curtain
in front of me.
10.36 p.m. F. Still noticing happens, and the medium turns back
to the table.
10.38 p.m. F. She holds my hand and squeezes it several times.
10.4-0 p.m. Medium asks whether she can touch the curtain to the
right of her ; she does so, and puts her hand back into C.'s.
10.4-3 p.m. F. C. and I close the curtains, vjhich had become
rather widely separated [the back of her chair having receded into
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance VIII. 489
[Light II.]
the cabinet. F. Dec. 11/08]. Almost immediately afterwards she
pulled the left curtain out again.
10.44 p.m. F. She holds out her left hand again towards the
curtain, and I think I can see the curtain move [very slightly.
F., Dec. 11/08].
10.46 p.m. F. She held my hand out towards the curtain, and
the curtain came out.
lO.lf.7 p.m. Medium says that she cannot make out why the pheno-
mena delay so.
10.50 p.m. F. Medium says suddenly "Fa lo venire" ("make it
come out ") [and I held my hand towards the curtain. F.,
Dec. 11/08], and immediately the curtain comes out almost as
far as my elbow, quite two feet.
F. Her left hand being motionless on mine on the table. Her
left foot on mine under the table.
10.53 p.m. R. and C. change places, at mediums request.
10.5If.
p.m. F. and R. verify tying of the feet.
11.0 p.m. F. Movements of the curtain.
F. My hand being held by hers about six inches from it.
Hands being absolutely visible.
11.0 p.m. Medium says to F. " Prendilo " ("take it"), pointing
to window curtain. F. touches it, and a movement at the extreme
left of the curtain near the window, about three feet from ground,
follows.
F. Her left hand on the table.
Lord s
490 E. Feikling, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light II.]
11.1 p.m. F. Another very small movement at the extreme
side of the curtain towards the window.
F. Her hand holding mine above the table.
R. I had her right hand in my right hand. My left hand being
on her left thi<rh.
11.3 p.m. Tabic tilts five times for less light. Medium will not
allow it.
11 A p.m. Five more tilts of the table, without contact, on
one leg, persist in asking for less light.
Medium still refuses.
F. Five more tilts, whereupon light changed to 3.
Light III.
11.5 p.m. F. Big movements of the curtain on my side.
F. Her left hand in mine on the corner of the table. Left foot
on mine.
B. I saw the movement of the curtain.
R. Medium's right foot pressing against mine. Her hand grasp-
ing mine firmly on her lap. My left hand resting on her thigh.
11.6 p.m. F. Another movement of the curtain.
F. Her hand and mine beins; as before on the corner of the
table.
R. Medium grips my hand this side.
11.8 p.m. F. Something touched me then, not in the place
where she had touched me, but just above my right hip, near the
back of my chair.
[Medium, had leant over and touched me on the side. Immediately
after she had removed her hand, something else touched me. F.,
Dec. 11 /OS.]
11.10 p.m. F. Medium has been holding my hand towards the
curtain and squeezing it several times ; sometimes there are
movements of the curtain [following this. F., Dec. 11/08], but
generally not.
[Medium yawned ; I rcmccrked that that was a good sign, and all
leaned forward attentively. F., Dec. 11 /OS.]
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Stance VIII. 491
[Light III.]
11.15 p.m. F. The right curtain is suddenly and violently
thrown right over as far as the other end of the table.
F. My right hand is in her lap in her left hand.
E. Her right hand completely in my left; I hold her thumb
and all her fingers. Her right foot was pressing firmly on my left.
F. Her right hand M'as visible to me all the time.
11.18 p.m. F. She asks me to put my right hand on her bach.
Her left hand is held by my left hanel.
11.19 p.m. F. She wants to make knocks, and she holds my
left hand right across her body towards R She pinches my
fingers, and synchronous knocks are heard on the door behind 1!.
E. Her right hand completely in my left; I hold her thumb
and all her fingers. Her right foot pressing firmly on my left.
11.21 p.m. F. Medium says I shall shortly be touched on the
bach of my hand. My hand is well on her back. I have got her
left foot on mine.
B. She has her right foot firmly on mine.
[Nothing happened. F., Dec. 11 /OS.]
11.36 p.m. Medium ctsks F. and B. to change places, which is done.
[It is not noted, but I distinctly remember that I retained hold of
both the medium's hands while B. moved, over and took my place,
and that he controlled them until 1 had taken his. F., May 19/09.]
11.32 p.m. F. She kicks three times with her right leg on
mine, and the table tilts three times away from her.
F. My left hand being on her knee and her right hand holding it
at the time. I am sure it was wholly upon my hand.
Lord s
492 E. Feilcling, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light III.]
R. At the same time her left foot was firmly pressed on my
right foot. My right hand on her left thigh. My left hand holding
her left hand also on her lap. I am sure it is the whole of her hand.
11.38 p.m. F. I am touched close under my left shoulder while
I am stroking the medium's forehead with my right hand. I was
touched very gently.
F. Her right hand holding my left hand on her lap. Her right
foot was firmly on my left foot.
R. The same with the left foot on my right foot. I am holding
the whole of her left hand on her left thigh.
11.42 p.m. F. The table tilts up and down for about 20
seconds on the two legs furthest from her.
F. During that time she was playing about with her fingers on
my right hand on her lap. Her right foot was firmly planted on
my left foot, and her knees were immovable.
R. My right hand was firmly grasped by her left hand ;
my
hand between hers and the table, I can feel the table rising away
from me. [She kept lifting my hand up in movement with the
table, so that I could just feel but not press it. R., Dec. 11/08.]
At the same time her left foot pressing on my right foot.
11.J/.3 p.m. General conversation about a supposed light which
proves to be a reflection.
F. There have been three different series of three shakes of some-
thing in the cabinet.
F. Her right hand has been on mine on the table near my
corner all the time. Her right foot is still fixed totally on mine,
heel and toe.
R. My right hand was holding hers on the corner of the table,
firmly grasping mine.
R. A moment ago I was touched under the ribs.
R. Foot control well marked.
R. I am touched again, strongly.
F. And she makes gestures with her right hand well over the
table at the same time as R. feels the touches, her right foot
being absolutely fixed on mine.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VIII. 493
[Light III.]
11.52 p.m. Table tilts four times, meaning talk.
F. Noises in the cabinet which sometimes synchronise with thumps
on my hand, which is lying on her lap, with her right hand.
[She made a long series of rhythmical thumps on my hand in
her lap, which were answered by knocks in the cabinet, as if
made by an electrical connection, which occasionally failed to
act. F., Dec. 11/08.]
F. As I am looking at the curtain I see something push it out.
The curtain keeps on moving for a long time, violently, near the
window [i.e. behind R F., Dec. 11/08].
F. Her right hand is continuously in mine, her head is perfectly
visible and motionless.
R. Her left hand in mine lying pressed on the table; she is
gripping my wrist. The foot control well marked.
F. The curtain has again moved between me and the window.
F. Control as before.
R. Same here.
11.55 p.m. F. The curtain moved two or three times strongly,
then suddenly came out right over the table as far as the further
end, as though thrown out.
R. The trumpet came out and crept along from my ear to my
hand, and is now resting on my right arm.
F. All this time her right hand is in mine on the edge of the
table near me, just under the curtain.
R. Her left hand is grasping my right and is against my chair
foot control firmly marked.
B. I have my right hand on R.'s chair and I can feel the
vibration of several raps.
F, While these raps were being made she made gestures towards
R. with her right hand held in mine. Her head was quite visible
all the time.
R. The trumpet has fallen to the ground.
C. A square white patch appears just above the medium's head.
F. Her right hand continuously in mine on the table.
R. Her left hand stroking the back of my hand.
494 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington, [part
[Light ill.]
11.59 p.m. F. She holds my right hand right across the further
end (? side) of the table and makes a number of rhythmical
slaps against it with her fingers, and some noise in the cabinet
synchronises exactly with these slaps.
R. Her left hand in my right hand lying flat on the top of the
table.
R Something has butted my head and fallen violently to the
ground. [This afterwards proved to be the toy piano. K., Dec.
11/08.]
R. She was grasping my hand. Her left foot on my right foot.
F. Her right hand was held in mine on her lap. My left foot
is behind the heel of her right foot so that there is no possibility
of her bending it back.
12.3 a.m. F. Mediums head has again gone right into the
cabinet. Noiv it re-appears.
12.6 a.m. F. My foot is rigid underneath her right heel.
Eaps in the cabinet synchronise with taps made by medium's
right hand on Signora X.'s left hand.
R. Her left foot firmly planted on my right, heel and toe.
K, She is gripping my hand firmly and moving it about over
the table to her side,
F. Her right hand on her right knee with mine. Head con-
tinuously visible.
12.9 a.m. R. I am touched on my right shoulder.
R. Her left hand pressing my right hand on her side, and foot
as before.
F. During the touches and during three violent movements of the
table on the legs furthest from her [which happened just as I began
this sentence, F., Dec. 11/08] her right hand was immovable in mine
on her lap, and my left foot is still under her right heel. She was
kicking about with her foot, my foot following it. My right foot
in front of her toe.
R. Same control as before.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VIII. 495
[Light III.]
[Some time previous to this, not noted at the time, C. had taken
up a position standing behind and slightly to the left of my
chair. F., May 19/09.]
Signora X Miss Y
Lord S
12.14. a.m. F. Medium asks me to put my left hand behind her back.
E. A white object came out up by my right eye.
F. I saw it very well from where I am.
B. I saw it.
C. I also.
F. It looked to me like a boiled white cabbage.
E, It seemed to me like an ace of diamonds and about 3 inches
from my right eye.
C. Movements of the curtain follow convulsive kicks of the
medium. [I was standing behind F. C, Dec. 11/08.]
F. Her right hand was continuously on the corner of the table,
her head visible, and my left hand behind her back.
The medium was asked what the white thing was. She said it
was the same friend of B.'s who had formerly kissed him
through the curtain. She was told that his head was "very
badly developed," and site replied that it would be better later.
12.17 a.m. C. Something tried to lift up the small table, but
finding, apparently, that it was tied, let it go with a bang.
F. Her right hand on the table in mine. My left foot still behind
her heel.
E. My right hand lying on the table and her left hand pressed
on it. Her left foot planted on mine, her leg pressed against mine,
and my right foot behind her left heel.
496 E. Fetlding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light III.]
12.22 a.m. B. A white thing appeared between the curtains
over her head.
R. I saw nothing.
F. I saw it.
F. Her right hand holding mine on the edge of the table. I am
sure it is the whole of it, I am feeling her thumb.
R. Something lifts the clay and puts it on to the table.
F. The medium blew three or four times while it happened. The
clay came gently out from the side of the curtain near the
window, between the medium and R., over her left shoulder, on
to the table and on to the top of her right hand and mine.
R. The block of clay passed my eye, coming from over my
shoulder, and slid down my right arm and passed over to the
opposite side of the table.
R. My right hand was lying perfectly flat on the middle of the
table, and her left hand was stroking my wrist; her left foot between
my two feet.
F. Her right hand was continuously in mine. My left hand on
her head. [See C.'s and F.'s notes regarding this phenomenon.]
12.40 a.m. R. A strong breeze of air is blowing into my face
from the curtain. It has now stopped.
R. Her foot is on the top of mine.
12.41 a.m. F. While R. felt the cold breeze, she had just lifted
my hand on the top of her head.
12.J/.3 a.m. Medium asks B. to get up on to the siance table and to
hold his hand high up towards the curtain, which he docs, at least
three feet above the medium's head.
B. Oh, it has touched me this side.
B. I again felt it.
[These sensations were merely the result of the convulsive move-
ments of the medium's hand which was holding F.'s against the
curtain while she pulled it ;
they were quite different from the
sensation of touching hands, which I have often experienced on
previous occasions. B., Dec. 11/08.]
R. The curtain has blown out over my right shoulder.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VIII. 497
[Light III.]
B. Kneeling on the top of the table, I have placed my hand
about a yard over her head and I feel a push from behind the
curtains. I do not feel a solid substance, it is more like wind.
R. Her left hand resting on mine in the middle of the table.
F. The medium's right hand in mine close to my face. Her head
resting against mine.
B. I am touched, I am touched. Oh, can I catch hold of that
hand ?
R. She is squeezing my hand.
B. I feel the curtain push out.
B. I do not know what it is that keeps pushing the curtain,
underneath, hut I cannot catch hold of it.
[B. I realized at the moment that this sensation of pushing
could be produced by pulling the curtain. I brought my right
hand down the edge of the curtain and found that it was being
held by the medium while she was holding F.'s hand, and that
she was pulling it. B., Dec. 11/08.]
[The medium was holding the curtain tight with my hand in
hers. Although it is probable that the sensations felt by B.
were clue to pulls given by her to the curtain, she appeared to
give these quite openly, and without concealment from me. The
movements somewhat resembled those she makes when she
apparently produces phenomena at a distance and may perhaps,
in this case, be interpreted as movements made unsuccessfully
in the attempt to make a solid substance touch B.'s hand.
Thus, though these movements were unquestionably suspicious,
they are not necessarily indicative of an attempt at fraud. F.,
Dec. 11/08.]
B. gets down from table.
12.46 a.m. F. The flageolet has rapped three times on my head,
and has fallen on my shoulder.
F. In the meantime I was holding her right hand up against her
face and mine [holding the curtain. F., Dec. 11/08].
R. Thorough control established.
12.47 a.m. R. Somebody nudged me in the ribs on the
right side.
2i
498 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light III.]
C. A solid substance pushes against my hand.
C. I am touched on the left arm.
F. Her right hand is two feet above the table in my left hand.
[C. was standing behind me about three feet from the part of
the curtain nearest to him. F., Dec. 11 /OS.]
E. Noises in the cabinet.
12.50 a.m. F. She taps with her right hand on mine, and the
tambourine shakes synchronously inside the cabinet.
F. Her head close to me and visible.
F. The same thing happens again.
R. She grips my hand, both resting upon the table, her foot
pressing mine firmly.
C. The bell rings and has been brought on the top of the
medium's head from the cabinet and remains there.
F. I was holding her right hand on the top of the table. I saw
the bell arrive on her head.
F. 1 hold the bell up against the curtain and ask " John " to
take it from me.
F. I was holding my hand about a foot from her head and
towards the curtain with my fingers holding it so that they
projected beyond the bell towards the curtain. Three or four
fingers took hold of the bell and shook it in my hand. I felt
their pressure on my fingers.
[This is not a strictly accurate description. The fingers took
hold of my fingers, I felt them distinctly as living fingers through
the curtain. They held my fingers tight and shook my hand,
and with it, the bell. F., Dec. 11/08.]
12.52 a.m. [/ asked that the bell be taken altogether from me.
F, Dec. 11 1 OS.]
F. Medium says put the bell near the curtain.
F. The curtain is blowing right out towards the bell, and the
small table in the cabinet moves.
12.55 a.m. Violent shakes in the cabinet.
LIX.] Sittings tvith Eusapia : Seance VIII. 409
[Light III.]
12.56 a.m. F. I am still holding up the hell for "John" to take it.
C. The curtain is blowing out towards me.
C. Something brushed against my face.
C. Something hit me through the right-hand curtain.
C. I am pushed through the curtain.
C. I am touched by a hand on my hand and I feel the texture
of the flesh touching me about two feet from the curtain.
B. It must be over a yard from the curtain [and about as far
from the medium. F., July 18/09].
F. I am touched on the left cheek softly by a hand through the
curtain.
F. The medium's right hand was resting quite quietly on my
left, and I know it is the whole hand.
R. She was grasping firmly the forefinger of my left hand with
the whole of her left hand, fingers and thumb, my right hand firmly
pressed on her knee. Her left foot grinding on my right foot.
[From the bell incident to this point the phenomena were happening
in all directions closely upon one another, and producing considerable
commotion in so large a circle. I am absolutely certain that the
control stated finally by me of the medium's right hand was that
which prevailed at the time that the bell appeared on the medium's
head, and continuously throughout. F., Dec. 11/08.]
[The control mentioned at the conclusion by me was a continuous
one of both hand and foot. E., Dec. 11/08.]
1.5 a.m. C. Two raps are heard in the cabinet.
Medium sags she is tired.
F. A white hand has appeared over her head. Oh, it has brought
a cord.
[A small coil of cord was on top of the medium's head, the end
of it descending to her left. I handed it to R. and asked him to
trace it down. F., Dec. 13/08.]
F. It is fastened to something. Oh, somebody is pulling it.
500 E. Feliding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light III.]
[R. traced it down and found it attached to the rung of his
chair. F., Dec. IS/OS.]
F. Twt, minutes before this had happened she had asked me to
feel the cord of her left leg to see whether it was fastened. I put
my finger through the loop of her left leg and found that the cord
was still round it. I did the same thing to the right leg. Shortly
after that I put my right hand on the medium's head, and she said
that she was going to rest. I continuously kept my left hand on
her right. There then appeared a white hand through the curtain
which dropped something on the top of her head. It proves to be
the cord which had previously been fastened to the left leg.
[/ had tied the medium's left leg, at the narrowest part of the
ankle, with tins cord. I made four reef knots. The other end
of the cord, I had attached to the leg and rung of the controller s
chair in the same manner, with four reef knots, .pulled tightly.
B., Dec. 12/08.]
[It did not occur to me when the medium asked one to verify
the fastening of her feet, tivo minutes before this incident, to do
more than ascertain that the ropes were still fast round her
ankles, which tvas the case, nor did it occur to me when the coil
dropped on her head that it could possibly be the same cord.
When traced by R. to the left leg of Ids chair, her leg was
found free. The rope was of such a kind as to be difficult to
untie. Similar knots on the other foot took B. about two minutes
to untie, using both, hands. Even supposing that the medium
had freed her hand from R., unperceived and unremembered
by him, it is to me inconceivable that she could have stooped
down and untied the knots with her left hand between the time
that I verified the fastenings and the appearance of the rope on
her head, unnoticed by R. and me, the light beivg amply sufficient
to follow any action of the kind. ¥., Dec. 12/08.]
[The rope used throughout for tying the medium was one I had
brought with me specially for that purpose. It was very soft
and pliable, and a most difficult rope to untie, as the knots, when
tied, sank deeply into the cord. C, June 30/09.]
1.8 a.m. C. I am touched by a hand through the curtain at a
distance of about 3 feet from the medium's chair.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance VIII. 501
[Light III.]
R. Her left foot planted on mine. Both my hands were
touching her left hand.
F. As she nearly seems to fall off her chair, I am holding
medium in my arms, my [? her] right hand in her Icq).
[Medium appeared here to go deeply into trance and seemed
about to fall. F., Bee. 12/OS.]
1.11 a.m. Partial levitation of the table.
1.13 a.m. [The medium again somewhat came to. We luishecl to see if
she could obtain raps under strictly evidential conditions on an object
well in sight, and on which the quality of the raps made would be
recognisable. She ivas therefore asked to try and produce raps without
contact on a tambourine which we placed on the table in front of
her. F, Dec. 12/08.]
F. The tambourine is placed on the table and she is ashed to produce
raps in it. She places C.'s and my hands on the tambourine and
hers on both of them.
R. Her left hand holds my right, hand on the table.
[She made several attempts to get raps on the tambourine by making
gestures over it, but failed, and abandoned the attempt. F., Bee.
12j08.]
1.25 a.m. Further non-evidential movements of the table terminate the
stance.
Note on Seance VIII. by W. W. Baggally.
At this seance I did not sit at the table by the side of Eusapia
I cannot therefore speak with the same assurance respecting the
strictness of the control as in my notes to the previous seance.
The conditions were different, owing to the introduction of other
sitters than the members of the S.P.R. Committee. After F. and
C. had sat for some time controlling the medium, she complained
that C.'s current was feeble owing to temporary ill health, whereupon
R. took his place.
I judged from the conversation that I had with R. that he was
a careful observer not easily deceived. His taking a part in the
seance had this advantage, that it served to confirm the opinion of
each of the members of the Committee that the phenomena that
took place in the cabinet were not produced by the hands or feet of
Eusapia.
502 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
Signora X. and Miss Y. undressed the medium before the seance
began and found no mechanism concealed about her person, so that
the seance was carried out under good test conditions. I detected
one suspicious circumstance, viz., the pulling of the curtains by
Eusapia when I was kneeling on the table and feeling for the touch
of a hand at the time I placed my hand against the curtain high
above Eusapia's head. This is mentioned in the report, but I agree
with F. that the pulling on the part of the medium may have been
due to her anxiety that a hand should touch mine. At the time,
she kept calling, in an appealing manner, apparently to some entity
within the cabinet, " La mano, la mano." We have observed that
motions of the medium's body are often followed by phenomena at
a distance. Thus she would extend her hand or foot, while held by
the controller, towards the cabinet, without touching the curtains,
exclaiming at the time " Voglio toccare colla mano," or " Voglio
toccare col piede " ("I want to touch with my hand," or "my
foot"), and immediately some object in the cabinet would move.
A notable instance of this occurred during the 7th seance, when
Eusapia nodded her head, saying at the time, " Coipo colla testa
("I am going to hit it with my head"), and, without her bringing
her head in contact with the table, a very loud blow, as if struck
with a hammer, was heard, followed by three thuds synchronizing
with the nods of her head, her hands and feet being under control
at the time. W. W. B., Dec. 11th, 1908.
Note on Seance VIII. by H. Garrington.
Although there were a large number of persons present at this
seance no confusion existed, as before under similar conditions, and
silence and good control were maintained throughout. I gave up
my control early in the evening to R., who retained it during the
rest of the evening. An exceedingly long wait before anything took
place ushered in some of the most remarkable phenomena we had
as yet seen. I refer to the carrying of the board of clay on to
the seance table, the carrying out of the toy piano, the trumpet, the
flageolet, etc., the details of all which phenomena are fully described
in the report. Not being in control on this occasion, I speak
merely as an onlooker; but the latter part of the seance— after
the phenomena began—appeared to me about as remarkable as any-
thing one could well wish for or conceive.
I was in an exceptionally good position, standing behind F., for
seeing the transportation of the clay from the cabinet to the seance
LIX.] Sittings with Eusoupia: Seance VIII. 503
table, shortly after 12.22 a.m., and, as I happened to be closely
watching the curtain at the time, I saw the movements of the board
and clay very clearly. The clay appeared first at the opening on the
extreme left, next to the white window curtains, and at a distance
of at least three feet from the medium's chair. It must have been
moved to that point, (2) from its former position on the small table
in the cabinet, (1). [It was transported from (2) to the right
shoulder of R. H. C, June 30/09] and then slid gently down
on to the table, until it rested at the point (3). I saw a white,
opaque substance, about two inches broad and six inches long,
apparently carrying this clay, which came across the medium's
left arm, her left hand being on R.'s right. The movement of the
clay was peculiar. It travelled slowly as though carried through the
air, and was most certainly not thrown. It would have been an utter
impossibility for the medium (even supposing that she had her left
hand free) to have placed the clay in the position in which I first saw
it, (2), and then to have moved it on to the seance table. Had
she done so, the left-hand curtain, behind which her left arm must
have been thrust, would have been crumpled together and carried
forward some considerable distance over her arm. Such, however,
was not the case. I clearly saw that the left hand curtain did not
move, and I am consequently quite sure that her left arm and hand
did not and could not have transported the clay from the left opening
of the cabinet curtain to the seance table.
Note by E. Feildtng on the Transportation of the Clay.
I find I wrote no contemporary note to this seance. My recollec-
tion is, however, perfectly clear as to the transportation of the clay.
Eusapia's two hands were both visible, her left on R.'s right near
the middle of the table, her right hand under my right about a
H. C, Dec. 15th, 1908.
Lord S
504 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
foot distant from her left. I did not see the board on which was
the clay till it arrived on E.'s right shoulder, nor did I notice the
white opaque substance referred to by C. I saw the board and clay,
however, slide slowly down E.'s right arm, alight on the table b}'
his hand, move across the table and come on to the top of my own
right hand near my side of the table. I am absolutely certain that
neither of Eusapia's hands carried them.
E. F., April 14th, 1909.
Supplementary Note by E. Feilding.
I remember rising from this seance in a spirit of acute indignation.
Our minds had become gradually attuned to the ordinary run of
phenomena in which the seance had been specially rich, and to the idea
of the non-fraudulent character of some, at all events, of which we had
become convinced. But it seemed little short of offensive on the
part of Eusapia's "spirits" or "fiuidic force," or whatever the agency
might be which produced them, to intrude into a series of respectable
phenomena one of such indubitably Davenportish associations as
the untying of the cord. I feel sensitive to the reproach which
will certainly be levelled at us :
" If you can be so easily deluded
by the repetition of such a fly-blown trick, your observation in other
matters cannot be worth much." The only plausible suggestion that
I can offer is that when Eusapia asked me to verify the tying of
her left foot, she had already contrived to release it, and crossed her
feet under the table, making me believe I was verifying the fastening
of her left foot, when in reality I was verifying that of her right.
Yet the four reef-knots had been made by B., an expert knot-tier, in
a soft cord specially brought by C. for the purpose. The knots had
been verified at 10.54 when R. and C. changed places, and at the
only other time when control might be considered relaxed, i.e. when
E. changed places with me, I remember distinctly holding both
Eusapia's hands till E. assumed control of them. Further, the light
was at all times sufficient to detect any manoeuvrings on the part
of Eusapia to untie the knots, even supposing an unreniembered
lapse in our physical control of her. There were no knots in the
coil which appeared on her head, but upon the manner of their
disappearance I find it only possible to reserve judgment.
E. F., May 19th, 1909.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance VIII. 505
Report of Examination of Medium by Signora X. and
Miss Y. prior to Seance VIII.
Madame Palladino first took off a black serge bodice and skirt of
the same material and colour. She then slipped over her head a
white knitted cotton stay-cover. She also drew off her neck a
white linen scarf a little over a foot in length and about four
inches wide. Next came a long dark blue petticoat with white
embroidery round the bottom. After that she took off a short white
flannel one, and a pair of pink and brown stays.f|She then removed
a long shift of coarse white linen and stood in what one might
call a pair of grey, woolly, divided combinations, that is to say,
body and drawers, a pair of white stockings, black elastic garters
under her knees, and a pair of brownish coloured boots, with heels,
which were only buttoned by the top button.
Every one of these things was thoroughly examined, including
the linings of bodice and skirt, and nothing was found anywhere.
Her hair, too, was simply drawn up, tied by a narrow bit of
black tape, and done into a bun.
Dec. 10/08.
Remarks on Seance IX.
December 13th, 1908.
In some ways this seance was the most remarkable of the
whole series, not indeed on account of the variety of the
phenomena, which was small, but of their boisterous exuberance.
The light was altogether unshaded at the start, yet levitations
of the table began immediately and followed one another
with extreme rapidity, no less than six complete levitations
taking place within five minutes (10.13 to 10.17 p.m.).
The conditions under which these levitations took place were
so exceptionally good as to light and control that it seemed
unnecessary to go on repeating them. Eusapia was, however,
asked to produce one more while F. held her feet under the
table. She consented, and placed her hands on her lap, held
by B. and C, and sat motionless while F. gathered her
skirts about her feet and encircled them with his hands.
The light, it is true, was reduced to the No. 3 ruby light,
but this was sufficiently bright for us to see an absolutely
06 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
clear space between her and the table, which, as soon as she
was told that we were ready, was again levitated off all four
legs. See the shorthand report at 10.23 p.m.
Shortly after this commenced a series of movements of the
little stool which had been placed outside the curtain to the
right rear of B. and to Eusapia's left, distant from her about
3 feet. In response to gestures made towards it with her
left hand holding B.'s, the stool advanced towards her several
times, and was also levitated while B.'s hand was resting on
its surface, her hand being on top of his. See report from
10.30 p.m. to 10.40 p.m. A series of touches on both C.
and B. followed at 10.47 p.m., but the description of the
control in the report is not very adequate.
It is difficult to say whether this seance, which began so
auspiciously, would have added to the general programme
of phenomena. A development of some kind had taken
place at every stance up to now, and owing to the extreme
vigour displayed by the " force " at this one, and the extreme
good humour of the medium, it seems probable that some
further and more startling manifestations might have followed,
had it not been for the unfortunate '
misunderstanding ' that
took place at 11.6 p.m. and to which further reference is made
in C.'s and F.'s notes. The discussion which arose in consequence
lasted nearly three-quarters of an hour.
At the resumption of the seance at 11.45 p.m. further move-
ments of the stool of a particularly interesting character took
place in the No. 2 light. The medium made gestures with her
hand at a distance from it of about three feet, sometimes with one
hand and sometimes with the other, and gestures of attraction
made the stool approach, while gestures of repulsion made
it recede from her. See B.'s note. During this series of
movements, the stenographer left his place and examined the
stool, putting his arms right round it and feeling along the
floor, several times, and found no attachment.
At 12.0 began a series of the usual curtain movements, and
at 12.23 a.m. of touches on C. by something from within the
curtain. The. complete control at 12.25 a.m. when C, who
was stroking the medium's forehead, was touched on the
wrist above her head, while he held one of her hands on
the table and B. held the other on her lap makes this
LIX.] Sittings vnth Eusapia: Seance IX. 507
particular touch noteworthy. The same may be said of the
grasp of a complete hand through the curtain, experienced by
C. at 12.38 a.m., while both the medium's hands were visibly
on the table.
At 12.43 a.m. began a series of movements of the
tambourine within the cabinet. Shortly afterwards the tam-
bourine came out of the cabinet along the floor and remained
there quietly for a time while C. was pulled about and
touched in various places a very large number of times.
Attention may be directed to a touch occurring at 12.51,
when a whole hand was felt by C. at a time when he was
holding both the medium's hands. At 1.5 a.m. the tambourine
began to perform a kind of tune. F., who was standing close
to it, felt around it and found no attachment, and shortly
afterwards it appeared to try and jump on to C.'s lap, both
the medium's legs encircling C.'s left leg, while her hands
were under thorough control, and also tied in such a way
as to put the tambourine out of her reach. After various
futile attempts on the part of the medium to procure an
impress of a hand on the sculptor's clay within the cabinet,
the stance closed at 1.30 a.m.
Shorthand Report of Seance IX.
December IBth, 1908.
Present: F., C, B., and M., shorthand writer, at separate table.
Lights same as in seance 7 except that light 3—ruby lamp, 10
candles, 110 volts—was only shaded with cream tissue paper
and no silk handkerchief.
Small bell and broken guitar hung up in same positions
as in seance 8. Photographic Plate as in 8. Small table tied
down in the same position. Guitar leaning up against front
of table in centre. To right of medium, leaning up against cord
fastening table, large tambourine. At back of table, on top,
toy piano. To left side of medium on top of table, tea bell. To
right side of medium, on top of table, flageolet and trumpet.
In the centre, in the front of top of table, clay.
Medium's feet tied to rungs of chairs of controllers on each side
of her, length of rope on left being 20 ins., on right 21\ ins.
508 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Hands tied to one another—distance apart $2 ins., also left
hand tied to B.'s right, distance being 16\ ins., medium's right
hand tied to G.'s left, distance 18 ins.
10. IS p.m. Seance begins.
Light I.
M
Tilts begin almost immediately.
F. Table tilts on the legs away from her.
10.13 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
C. Her right hand resting on the table touching mine, my wrist
being between hers and the edge of the table. Her right foot in
contact with my right foot. I saw a clear space of about eight inches
between her dress and the leg of the table.
B. Complete levitation of the table for a second time [during
dictation of B.'s control. Dec. 14/08].
B. My right hand on both her knees. Her left foot touching
my right foot.
10.14 p.m. Complete levitation for a third time.
B. Another complete levitation.
F. Both medium's hands completely on the top of the table
touching C.'s and B.'s.
C. I can see a clear space of about 8 inches between her dress
and the table leg all the way down.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance IX. 509
[Light I.]
B. My right hand on her two knees. My right foot against her
left foot, and I can see between her left leg and the table leg.
10.16 p.m. Another complete levitation.
F. Her right hand off the table altogether, left hand on B.'s, pull-
ing it upward and the table appeared to stick to it.
10.17 p.m. Another complete levitation of the table.
F. First of all a partial levitation, which lasted about ten seconds,
then a complete levitation, off all four legs.
F. Her right hand touching the table, left hand on B.'s. —She
raised her right hand from the table and the table slid sideways in
the air under B.'s hand.
B. My right hand across both her knees. My right knee against
her left knee and my right foot against her left foot, and I see a
clear space between her leg and the table leg.
C. Her right hand clenched (at first) on the table within three
inches of my eyes. My left hand across both her knees. Her right
foot on my left foot. I can clearly see a space of at least six inches
between her dress and the table leg, all the way down.
[The light was sufficient to read small print by with comfort, at
the further end of the room, the hands were always plainly
visible and always situated so that it was clear that the table
was not lifted by them. The extreme rapidity of flie levitations
made complete description almost impossible, and it was decided
to confine the description of the control to the feet, the control
of the hands being obvious to cdl and description rendered
unnecessary. Medium was then told that enough levitations
had been produced but was ashed, before proceeding to further
phenomena, to produce one more, with her feet actually held
under the table. I thereupon went under the table. F., Dec. 14/08.]
510 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light I.]
10.20 p.m. F. I have got my hands on both feet.
C. The table tilts away from her.
C. My left hand is on both her knees. Both her hands are flat
on the table in full view of us, her wrists not over the edge.
Five tilts of table ask for less light.
Light II.
F. I have now got my hands on the floor against the table legs,
and inside them. Her two feet are between my hands.
Five more tilts of the table ask for still less light.
Light III.
10.23 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
Note by M.: Immediately before levitation took place medium
asked F. if he had got her feet all right.
F. I had my hands on the floor between her legs and the table
legs. Her feet and the whole of her dress were in between my
hands.
C. My left hand on her right knee, her right hand being on the
top of my left hand and did not leave it.
B. My right hand was on her left knee, her left hand on the
top of my right hand. My foot was away from her foot but F. had
complete control of her feet. 1
[/ now came out from under the table and meditim was asked
to stop levitating. F., Dec. 12/OS.]
F.
1
See F.'s note at end.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance IX. 511
[Light III.]
10.27 p.m. B. A movement of some object in the cabinet.
B. She moves her left hand within mine towards the cabinet but
at a distance of about three feet from it. Her left foot on my right
foot.
C. Her right foot pressing against my left foot, her right knee
in contact with my left knee. Her right hand holding my left hand
on her right thigh.
F. Note that in this light I, from the opposite end of the table
to the medium, can see her face, and, of course, her hands.
10.30 p.m. B. The little stool which was placed outside the
cabinet at a distance of three feet from the medium approached
towards the medium while she held my right hand with her left
hand, and continued to do so.
B. Her left knee is against my right knee. Her left foot against
my right foot [and between her leg and the table leg. B., Dec. 14/08].
She is holding my hand towards the stool but at a distance from it.
I can see her hand which is holding mine quite clearly.
C. Her right hand is visibly on the table in my left. Her right
knee pressing against my left knee ; her right foot pressing against
my left foot.
10.33 p.m. B. She places my right hand on the surface of the
little stool with her left hand on the top of my right, and the
stool rises up into the air against my hand, with pressure under-
neath, while her left foot is resting on my right foot.
C. Her right hand is visible on the table holding my left. I can
feel her right knee against my left. Her right foot is in contact
with mine.
B. It went up again.
10.34 p.m. F. Four complete levitations of the table to a
height of about six inches, very rapidly, presumably meaning
" talk." I can see from here that her hands were not on the
table.
B. My right hand is resting on the medium's left knee with her
left hand upon it, and her left foot distinctly held on my right foot.
C. The fingers of the medium's right hand are now on the back
of my hand resting on her right knee which is distant from her left
512 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light III ]
knee only about two inches. My left knee in contact with her right
knee. Her right foot pressing against my left foot. [I was dis-
satisfied at the time with the sensation of the hand control. C,
Dec. 14/08.]
10.37 p.m. C. The little stool moves out again towards the
medium.
C. Again it moves violently.
F. I can see it (standing up).
B. She makes a jerky motion in the air above the table (towards
the stool) with her hand while holding my right hand. My right
knee pressing against her left knee, and my right foot under her
left foot.
C. Her right hand resting entirely on my left hand on her right
knee. The control of feet as before.
10.40 p.m. B. The medium places my right hand on the surface
of the stool, lifts her hand away from mine, and the stool rises
in the air about six inches.
B. At this time I distinctly felt her left leg against my right
leg. I could see her left hand while this was taking place.
C. Control exactly the same as before.
B. She touches the curtain with her left hand held in mine.
10.41 p.m. C. The curtain blows out.
10.42. p.m. C. The curtain blows out about two feet. The
medium says that I shall get a touch if I hold my hand up
to the curtain. I did so and I feel the curtain pulled down-
wards (viz. as B. did when on table during Seance VIII. ).
W.JpJf. 'p.m. F. I can see the mediums left hand on B.'s. I can
see G.'s hand held out against the curtain. I can see Iter right
hand on the table.
F. I can see from where I am a strong movement of the small
stool.
F. Her head is perfectly visible to me.
B. I can feel her left foot against my right foot, and her left
knee against my right knee, which she has not moved at all while
the phenomenon was taking place (viz. the movements of the stool).
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance IX. 513
[Light III.]
10.47 p.m. C. I am touched on the left wrist.
C. I was leaning across the medium's body, my left arm being
in contact with her chest, my left knee and foot in contact with hers.
C. I am touched by a hand through the curtain.
C. Control of feet as before. Her right hand on my left knee.
B. Her left hand resting on my right hand on the table. Same
control of feet.
10.48 p.m. B. I am touched on my right knee.
B. Same control of feet and hands as before ; her left hand was
on the table.
C. Same control here.
10.57 p.m. Four tilts of table, meaning " talk."
B. I feel three touches on my right knee.
B. At that moment I felt her left hand on my right hand and
her left leg against my right leg. I did not feel the slightest motion
of her hand which is about six inches from the point of touch.
C. Same control as before. The whole of her right hand on my
left [?on C.'s left knee "as before." F., May 22/09].
F. Her face is visible to me and motionless.
B. This is the first time we have had touches in front of the
medium.
11.0 p.m. F. Two tilts of the table on the legs nearest to
her, very strong.
C. Her right foot clearly on my left foot. I am holding her
right hand in my left hand, her left hand resting over my right
hand.
B. Synchronizing with these tilts, she presses her left foot slightly.
Owing to the position of her left leg against my right leg she was
not able to touch the table leg with it. I am holding her left hand
with my right hand firmly on her left knee [?on top of C.'s right
hand. F, May 22/09].
11.6 p.m. G. shoivs that he is dissatisfied with the foot control,
and seeks to verify whether medium's feet are separate, with his
hand. [Dictated later]—Medium pointed out that as her feet
514 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light III.]
were tied she did not think it mattered where they were, under
the table. She is very angry and woke thoroughly up from a
condition of semi-tramee into which she had fallen. A long
discussion followed. The medium, thoroughly upset, says "Better
phenomena are spoilt for the evening," asks for light to be turned
up and for the control of her feet to be verified.
Light I.
11.40 p.m. M. Examines the tying of the medium's feet and
finds that it is absolutely in^ossiblc for her to do anything herself.
The fastenings found as at the beginning of the stance.
Il.lf5 p.m. Seance resigned, medium still very irritated.
Light II.
B. The stool by the side of the medium, in very good light, has
moved. This movement was preceded by one of her left hand
at a distance from the stool of about 2h feet.
B. I was holding her left knee against my right knee, and her
left foot against my right foot.
C. Her right foot on my left foot, my right hand on her right
knee. Her right hand covering my left hand.
B. She moves her left hand as though pushing something away
from her at a height of about a yard from the stool. The stool
thereupon retires from her.
B. Control same as before.
C. Mine also the same.
[I now got up and examined the little stool, feeling right round
it, and saw that there was nothing connecting it to the medium's
dress. As I was about to resume my place I saw the little stool
again moving, and stooped down to watch it. It moved in little
jerks about a foot sideways. When it had finished, I again put
my hands right round it and found no attachment. While I was
doing this the stool seemed to brush up against my coat sleeves
as though drawn by a magnet. I was again about to sit down
when the stool began moving for a third time, and I examined
it again. There was absolutely no possibility of there being any
attachment. M., Dec. 15/08.]
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance IX. 515
[Light II.]
F. Standing up I saw the stool moving.
M. It moved about 12 inches.
B. and C. Controls same as before.
11.50 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
C. Both her hands were on the top of the table, my left hand
resting on her right knee. Her right foot on my left foot firmly.
I can see a clear space between her dress and the leg of the table
all the way down.
B. My right hand on her left knee. My right foot feeling her
left foot. There is a space between her left leg and the table leg.
11.58 p.m. F. Standing up at this end of the table, I saw her
make gestures with her right hand at a distance of about 3| feet
from the small stool, her left hand being motionless in B.'s on his
corner of the table, and the stool advanced in little jerks towards B.
C. The curtain is pushed right out on this side about three feet.
B. I am feeling her left foot on my right foot.
C. Control the same as before, the whole of medium's hands
being visible.
C. The curtain is again pushed out about two feet.
C. Her right hand on my left on the table ;
right foot on my
left foot firmly.
B. Control same as before, hand and foot.
12.1 a.m. Partial levitation of the table.
Another partial levitation of the table, almost complete.
12.2 a.m. The curtain blew out.
C. I am holding my hand out towards the curtain.
12.3 a.m. Five violent tilts of the table ask for less light.
Light III.
F. Note that her face and eyes are visible to me over at the
opposite end of the table.
12 A a.m. C. The right curtain has again blown out.
12.6 a.m. M. notes: The curtain made a large bulging move-
ment of about 2h feet while I was standing up.
516 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrvngton. [part
[Light III.]
[During these last two or three minutes I had left my place and
gone round to the curtain, and approached my hand towards it
to try whether I could get a touch. M., Dec. 15/08.]
12.22 a.m. Loud noises in the cabinet.
12,£3 a.m. Medium asks G. if he had been touched.
C. I was touched through the curtain as if by a hand.
C. Her right hand holding my left.
B. Her left hand holding my right hand on her left knee.
F. Her head is visible to me; I saw the curtain come out towards
the place where C. was touched.
12.25 a.m. C. I was touched again as if by a hand through
the curtain on the wrist of my right hand as I was stroking
the medium's forehead with it.
C. Again I am touched in the same place.
C. Meanwhile I have her right hand, of which I feel the thumb
and four fingers, on the table.
B. I am holding her left hand on her left knee.
12.26 a.m. Complete levitation of the table.
12.38 a.m. Two raps.
C. I am grasped through the curtain by a complete hand.
C. At that time her right foot was strongly against mine ; the
fingers of her right hand pressing on the back of my left hand on
the table, almost in the centre of it.
B. Her left hand holding my right hand on the table. I could
see both her hands at the time. Her left foot kicking against my
right foot.
12.43 a.m. Medium squeezes on C.'s hand and movements in
the cabinet follow (thumps on the tambourine).
B. I was holding her left hand with my right hand on her knee.
C. Mine, holding medium's, is on the table.
B. She gives three squeezes of her left hand in my right hand,
and synchronizing with these three squeezes, we hear three thumps
on the tambourine.
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance IX. 517
[Light III.]
12.46 a.m. C. Corresponding with squeezes of the medium's
hand, the tambourine was thumped.
B. My right hand was holding medium's left hand, and my right
foot was on her left foot. My right knee pressing against her left
knee.
C. I am holding her right hand by the thumb on the table.
Her right foot on my left completely.
12.47 a.m. F. I ash " Carlo
" 1
to give me the tambourine.
{Medium said he would do so and I moved round behind C.
F., Dec. 14/OS.]
B. She holds my right hand over the table in front of her and
makes gestures with it in the air, and the tambourine slid along
the ground.
C. I am touched again.
C. The same thing has happened again.
C. I was touched three times with fingers on my left hand. The
tambourine then jumped up about 10 or 12 times inside the
curtain, apparently trying to get to the edge of the curtain, and
was then pushed outside the cabinet [near where I was standing.
F., June 6/09].
C. I am grasped very firmly by a hand through the curtain on
the left arm.
C. I felt the medium's right hand on my left on the table, at
the same moment that the tambourine was kicking about inside the
cabinet.
B. I am holding her left hand on the table. I can see it quite
clearly.
114
Carlo" is another "spirit" whom Eusapia occasionally states to be present.
518 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light III.]
12.51 a.m. Medium says she wishes to touch C, which she does.
C. I was grasped just above the left elbow by four fingers and
a thumb, which pressed very bard indeed.
C. I am touched on the left side by a hand.
C. I was holding both medium's hands in both of mine and she
was squeezing tightly, one being clearly visible and one on the table
under the curtain. Absolute control of right foot and leg ; her right
foot pressing strongly on my left foot in contact with my right.
B. I was holding the wrist of her left hand with my right hand
on the table in full view of us all,
—perfectly visible. My right knee
against her left knee. My right foot under her left foot.
1.0 a.m. C. I am touched on the face by a hand through the
curtain as the medium kicks to and fro.
0. I am again touched on the face by a hand.
C. Medium having both her legs round my left leg, her right
hand holding my left on the table in the middle under the curtain.
B. Her left hand, which I see clearly, holding my right hand on
the table.
F. Note heads are visible to me.
F. I am standing up between C. and the curtain holding my right
hand on C.'s shoulder.
1.3 a.m. C. I was touched on the left shoulder strongly.
C. Medium had both her legs round mine, her right hand holding
my left under the curtain in the middle of the table.
B. I am holding her left hand with my right hand on the table.
1.5 a.m. The tambourine jumps up about twelve times, as if
trying to play a tune.
B. .She squeezes my hand synchronously in tune with it.
F. I have put my hand between the tambourine and the
medium's knee.
[I knelt down on the ground and felt right round the tambourine
which was lying near the edge of the curtain, behind and to the
left of C.'s chair. There was no attachment. F., Dec. 1^/08.]
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance IX. 519
[Light III.]
C. I am touched on the left arm above the elbow.
C. Control exactly the same as before.
B. My control the same as before.
1.6 a.m. C. The tambourine jumps and jerks as though it tried
to get on to my lap.
C. Control the same as before.
B. My control absolutely the same as before.
1.13 a.m. All stand up. F. asks "John" if he can make an
impression on the clay. Three tilts of the table respond " Yes."
1.17 a.m. The medium is told that it is very late, and that if
she is unable to do anything else she had better stop, but she
replies "The phenomena are not finished yet."
1.24 a.m. Something; falls over behind the medium.
C. ascertains that it is the medium's chair. Medium says " Do
not take any notice of that as I might leave done it with my
feet."
1.30 a.m. Something moved in cabinet.
Medium says "Please note that I did not move at all then."
[Owing to the lateness of the hour, the medium is severed times
asked whether she will not finish. For some time she declines.
She is asked whether she can get an impression on the clay. First
of all she replied " They said '
Yes,' " but after long continued
efforts, she said she felt tired and could do no more. F., Dec. 14-/08.]
Note on Seance IX. by E. Feilding.
This seance began under the most favourable circumstances.
Eusapia was in the best of humours, and submitted to having her
hands and feet tied with perfectly good grace. They were tied by
B. and myself. The tying of the hands, however, is not of any
special importance for those who are present at the seances, and whose
attention has constantly to be on the alert from the necessity of
describing the control at every moment to the stenographer. At
scarcely any time has the light been so poor as not to enable the
controllers to see, as well as feel, the hands they were holding. And
520 E. Feilcling, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
it is especially to be remarked that it has been just those seances
where the light has been the poorest that the phenomena have been
the least remarkable and frequent. The tenth seance, which has
taken place before I have finished this note, has been the worst
of the whole series. Compared, indeed, with the performance of
other mediums, the manifestations which occurred were remarkable
enough ; but compared with its predecessors, the tenth seance was
almost blank, though darkness, more or less complete, prevailed
almost throughout. The same thing may be said of a great part
of the third and fourth seances. The implication appears to be
that when the force, whatever it is, which produces Eusapia's pheno-
mena, is strong, nothing will interfere with it, and phenomena, at
all events of a certain class, hurry one upon another even in the
brightest light. When, however, the force is weak, she seeks to
improve the conditions for its development by reducing the light;
but even then, though a few sparse manifestations will occur, the
results, with some exceptions, are generally feeble and of small
interest, and certainly far from convincing.
We tied Eusapia, then, more for the sake of being able to say
that we had done so, than for our own satisfaction. The tying of
her hands would not have been close enough to prevent her from
fraudulently producing the many touches which C. experienced at the
latter part of the seance, but she could not have touched either the tam-
bourine or the stool, which were the only objects moved at this seance,
at any time. The tying of her right foot was close enough to prevent
her from reaching within about a foot from the tambourine in its
original position within the cabinet, though she might possibly have
done so after it came out and jumped about on the floor. Had she
not been otherwise controlled, with her knees under the table, while
the small stool was moving about on the floor, it is possible she
might have reached it at some part of its progress. It is difficult,
when a seance is over, exactly to fix the positions of chairs and other
movable objects. But as a matter of fact, she did not use her feet.
The tambourine and the stool stood free of her, a clearly visible space
being between her and them while they moved.
The proceedings started in the light of an unshaded 10 candle
power 150 volt lamp. The current being 110 volts, the lamp of
course is less brilliant than if it had been a 110 volt one, but it was
good enough for me to be able, while standing at the entrance door,
ten feet from under the light and holding my book edgeways, not
directly towards it, to read small print without the least discomfort.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance IX. 521
It was thus the best light that we had yet had at any seance.
Levitations began immediately. The table bounded about as if it
was on springs. In some respects these levitations were less aston-
ishing than those we had at seances 1 and 2, as there was usually
some slight contact with the medium's hands, though not of such
a kind as could produce the levitations by normal means. They
ended by boring us, and we asked for them to stop, except for one
final levitation which we wished her to produce while her feet, which,
however, had been hitherto quite visible under the table to the
stenographer and myself (I sat opposite Eusapia), were actually
being held. I went accordingly under the table, gathered Eusapia's
skirts together and enclosed them and her feet within my hands
and between the table legs. It appears that the application of a
special test produces a psychological effect on Eusapia, and even
though she still produces the phenomenon, its performance seems
made more difficult ; she asked for the light to be reduced twice, i.e.
to the ruby light, and seemed to collect herself for an effort. I
requested the others to remove their legs so that I could get a clear
view, as well as hold, of Eusapia's, which even in the reduced light
were still perfectly visible to me. B. and C. placed their hands on
her knees and she placed her hands on their hands. She asked if
our control was quite satisfactory, and up went the table. We felt
that there was no more to be said, and I resumed my place opposite
her.
With regard to the storm which arose later on, I may make
a few remarks. When Eusapia is in the deeper stage of trance
which usually accompanies the production of the more advanced
phenomena our experience is that she always allows her hands
to be fully enclosed in those of her neighbours. When, how-
ever, she is only in a state of half-trance, she frequently seeks
to keep her hands on the top of theirs, and moves them restlessly
about. When her two hands are near together, it is obvious
that a substitution of hands becomes easy, but when they are far
apart, —and, as a rule, she keeps them at a considerable distance
from one another, —no substitution is possible. I have complained to
her more than once that she ought to allow her hands to be fully
enclosed. She said that during a seance she became very hyper-
aesthetic and nervous, and that the touch of certain people's hands,
especially if these are at all moist or hot, is so acutely unpleasant
to her that she cannot endure her hands being held inside them.
She said that this sensation had no connection with her liking for
522 E. Feildivg, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
people otherwise, and that there were certain persons to whom she
was greatly attached in her normal condition who were profoundly
antipathetic to her as neighbours during a seance, and vice versd.
As regards her feet, especially her left foot, she said she was still
more sensitive. Her left foot, she told me, had once been run over
by the wheel of a cab, and she cannot stand pressure on the instep,
while both her feet have a tendency to go to sleep, so that she gets
a sensation of pins and needles in them, and has to press violently
every now and then with them so as to restore sensation. This
certainly accords with our experiences, and we have all of us
arisen from seances with mangled feet, the result of the vigorous
application of her exceedingly sharp heels. It is, in any case, not
unnatural that during a long seance she should be restless with
both hands and feet, and although her knees are almost always
pressing against ours, and well under the table, which is very
narrow, thus making it impossible for any ordinary person, as we
have found by trial, to get the foot outside the table leg in such a
way as to perform tricks without the movement immediately being
perceived, we have always been extremely suspicious of a substitution
of feet being performed. Nevertheless, though the actual sensation
on our feet was frequently that of only part of one of hers, heel
or toe, leading us to verify, with the free hand, the fact that we
were really controlling the foot which we ought, none of us has
ever once, excepting at this seance, detected the slightest attempt
at foot substitution.
During this seance, however, C. did notice a change, and forgetting
that, owing to the fastening, she had only a certain range of action,
he stooped down to feel, and found that Eusapia had crossed her
feet. He told me in English that the foot control was not good.
Eusapia, who detests English, and is always annoyed when she does
not know what is being said, yet has a flair for the meaning of
things so remarkable as to amount almost to the dignit}' of tele-
pathic perception, was furious. She worked herself up into a
passion and covered us with rich Neapolitan reproaches for our
suspicion and inexperience of her phenomena. The storm raged
for about an hour, and when at length calm was, to a certain extent,
restored, and we all expressed unfeigned astonishment at the activity
of the stool, which performed a pas seul outside the cabinet, she said
sarcastically :
" You have spoiled all the better phenomena, and now
you are amazed at a straw (paglia) like that."
E. P., Dec. 17th, 1908.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance IX. 523
Note on Seance IX. by H. Carrington.
This seance started most propitiously, and it was possibly owing
to what was perhaps a blunder on my part that we did not get
many more startling phenomena than we did. The medium arrived
in very high spirits, and consented to have her hands as well as
her feet tied with rope, which she had refused at the previous
sitting. B. —who is an expert at knots and tying generally —under-
took to tie the medium's feet and hands, which he did. I then
controlled the right side of the medium, B. the left.
The table began to move almost at once, as at our first seances.
Several complete levitations followed one another in good light, and
under excellent conditions of control. The little stool was then
moved and levitated, and moved again under absolute test condi-
tions, as the record will show. Several important and evidential
touches through the curtain followed this, also other phenomena.
It was shortly after this that I began to feel dissatisfied with
my foot control, and later with the hand control also. I forgot,
for the time being, the limitations put upon the medium's move-
ments by the tying of the hands and feet, and felt I should have
the same amount of control as formerly for two reasons: (1) touches
on my side would be non-evidential if the hand control were not
good; and movements of objects on her right side, on the floor,
would also be non-evidential, for the same reason. (2) We had
agreed to tell the medium at once as soon as any laxness of the
control became apparent. Further, the light had now been lowered
very considerably, and the right-hand curtain was covering part of
her body. I accordingly manifested some signs of unrest, as soon
as the control became markedly poor, and finally sought to verify,
with my hands, the exact position of her feet. It was at this that
she became angry, and a long intermission resulted, in which she
explained that, owing to the tying, she did not consider that such
strict conditions of control were necessary, and she wished to be
more free to move about, etc. We consented to this at once,
with the result that, although the control of hands and feet through-
out the rest of the seance was not so good as formerly, still I
could usually follow her movements quite clearly, and am assured
that some of the phenomena at least could not have been produced
by her, even had she effected a substitution of one hand and one
foot, as I think the account will show.
H. C, Dec. 15th, 1908.
24 E. Feildivg, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Note on Seance IX. by W. W. Baggally.
The numerous complete levitations of the table at this seance
afforded further evidence of the existence of a telekinetic force
exercised by Eusapia. The light was sufficiently good to enable us
to see her hands and legs at the moment that some of the levita-
tions took place, and no suspicious movement on her part was
detected. Her feet were also under control, and could not have
been inserted under the table legs, and the hand of one of the
controllers was on both her knees. The complete levitations, the
swelling out of the medium's dress already referred to, and the bulging
of the curtains of the cabinet, afforded me the strongest evidence
so far obtained by us for the existence of this force, owing to the
excellent test conditions under which I observed them.
During the production of these phenomena, and when the objects
were outside the cabinet, the movement could be watched from the
moment of its initiation. If this movement were due to a super-
normal force, as the test conditions under which it Avas produced
suggest, it is not impossible that this same force is also at work
when objects are brought out of the cabinet, —although their initial
motion is not then perceptible, —if the test conditions in this latter
case are equally severe. This supposed force appears to be able
to attract matter, as when the medium held her hands above
the table (her feet being under control), the table was completely
levitated with all four feet from the ground. It appears also able
to repel it, as when she placed her hands below the table, though
not touching it (her feet being under control), the table rose in the
same manner.
The movements of the little stool which was placed on the ground
outside the cabinet, on her left, at a distance of three feet from
her left hand and two and a-half feet from her left foot, illustrated
the double action of this force. When she made a motion of
her hand high above the stool, as if pushing it away from her,
it retired ; and when she made the motion, also high above the
stool, as if drawing it towards her, it advanced in her direction.
At the time these motions were taking place I was sure I had a
good control of her left leg. My right foot was not only against
her left, but the whole length of my right leg was between hers
and the stool. The light was sufficient to enable us to see the
little stool as it moved in different dhections.
W. W. B., Dec. 14th, 1908.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance IX. 525
Apparently Spontaneous Ringing of a Bell in the Seance
Cabinet, Dec. 15th, 1908.
It is difficult to know whether to include the following
peculiar occurrence in this report or not. Whereas in the
case of phenomena taking place in Eusapia's presence the
problem, reduced to its simplest form is " conjuring or
spooks ?
" in the case about to be described the problem
appears to be " spooks, or a practical joke ?
" It is impossible
to say which of the alternatives appears the more blankly
improbable. E. E.
Bell Incident.
8.45 by C.'s watch. 15th December, 1908.
At a certain moment when B.» was working up our clay
at the small table in the centre of the room, C. being in
the next room, with the door open, the small bell hanging
from the string in the cabinet rang violently. It struck
against the wood of the doorway—a good 2 1 feet from the
bell. The ringing continued for several seconds, with violence,
and then stopped. B. was at least nine feet from the bell,
at the time of ringing, and C. could see he did not approach
it. Nobody else was in the room at the time. As soon
as the bell ceased ringing, we called in Mr. Ryan from the
next room, who opened the curtains and saw (as did we all)
that the bell was still swinging on its suspending string.
The cabinet was empty save for a chair, standing inside it.
We all three heard and saw this remarkable bell phenomenon.
(Signed) W. W. Baggally.
Hereward Carrington.
I was adding my final note to my previous evidence when
I heard the bell in the next room ring. I attached no
importance to this (thinking that B. and C. were testing the
apparatus). Mr. Baggally just then rushed in, made me come
round and open the curtain. I then saw that the bell was
still swinging on its string. Mr. Baggally's hands were
covered with clay, which he was puddling.
James Ryan, Dec. 15th, 1908.
[Written immediately after the curtain had been opened.]
526 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Note by W. W. Baggally.
I was standing alone at 8.45 p.m., on the evening of the 15th
December, by the side of a table in the seance room preparing
some clay for the purpose of obtaining, if possible, impressions of
"John's" fingers or hand at the sitting which Eusapia was to
give us on that evening, when suddenly a bell in the cabinet gave
a bang against some woodwork, and rang loudly. I was standing
at the time 2f metres from the closed curtains of the cabinet.
I looked at C, who was just within the open doorway of his room,
and said to him "Do you hear that?" He exclaimed "By
Jove." I then rushed into my room where Mr. Ryan was seated
writing some notes, and I told him what had occurred. He came
with me into the seance room, opened the curtains, and we all
saw the bell swinging violently with the string that it was
suspended by. I had anticipated that this string had broken and
that the bell had fallen to the ground; my surprise was great to
see the bell still hanging and swinging violently. I asked C.
to make a note of the occurrence at once, and also Mr. Ryan.
After the swinging of the bell had ceased it occurred to me
that possibly some one had hung or balanced it on the horizontal
cord to which the string (by which the bell hung) was attached,
and that if this were so, a jerk might cause the bell to fall and
ring. I found by experiment that I could not balance the bell on
the cord, but that I could balance it on a nail in the cabinet or
hang it on the cord by a small ornamental knob that was on the
side of the handle. When so balanced or hung, the bell required
a jerk to cause it to fall. No one was near the cabinet to give
this jerk. The incident has no evidential value, but is very
perplexing. It is strange that it should have occurred during the
course of the seances.
w w Rj Dec 15tb> 1908
Note by E. Feilding.
As to this bell incident, I can express no opinion, not having
been present. I came in amid the general consternation. It is
infinitely painful to me, as Hon. Sec. of that most staid body,
the S.P.R., to record the state of emotion in which I found my
colleagues.
As to who was responsible for it, we shall never know. If it
was "John," playing poltergeist, he reveals a sense, of humour on
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance IX. 527
which he deserves sincere congratulation ; if a more fleshly jester,
the chambermaid and the boots must divide my homage. The
only way that I can imagine the bell ringing as it did (it was
still swinging as I came in) was by its having fallen from a position
of unstable suspense, from which it was dislodged by some
concussion. It may have occurred to the chambermaid or the
boots to balance it on a certain nail in the hopes that it might
tumble dramatically later on. Long practice has failed to disclose
any other method. The chambermaid and the boots, delicately
questioned, deny blankly. The chambermaid, indeed, is terrified
at our cabinet and could barely be persuaded to play "Eusapia"
in some imitation photographs' of phenomena we took yesterday.
The boots is too stolid for such imaginative leaps. "John" himself
is unquestionable. Taking it all round it is the most perplexing,
indeed, annoying dilemma of this most perplexing month.
An additional plausibility would perhaps be lent to a super-
normal explanation if this occurrence be taken in conjunction with
an incident which took place after, I think, the fifth seance,
hitherto not mentioned. I had gone to bed and to sleep. I was
presently awakened by C. who came in saying that from his bed in
the next room he heard rappings in my room through the open
door. They still continued, and I rose and went with C. to the
cabinet, whence they came. They were slow, deliberate raps
apparently on the wood-work near the window. They went on
for about -J
minute while we stood there. Unfortunately the
light was then turned up and the curtain withdrawn and they
immediately stopped.
Eusapia, when told of this, declared it must have been her
"fluid" which sometimes stayed behind. Perhaps;—or a beetle.
I do not know.
R ^ Dec ^ 190g_
Remarks on Seance X.
December loth, 1908.
In this, which was to be last seance of the series, we had
arranged for a photographer to come and take a photograph of
a table levitation, Eusapia having readily consented when this
was proposed to her. As among the many photographs of levi-
tations that have already been published, there are hardly any
that show adequately the control of the medium's feet, we asked
528 E. Feliding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
her to use the stocks apparatus, which would render any kind of
foot control unnecessary. We also invited Prof. Galeotti and
Mr. Ryan to attend the seance. The night was wet and stormy.
Eusapia arrived late and in a bad humour. She said that she
had been ill all day, and had intended to send word to say
she could not come, and that it was only because she had
heard from F. in the afternoon that Prof. Galeotti was coming
that she changed her mind.
The photographers were placed in the next room with the
door closed, Eusapia saying that when she felt that a levitation
was going to happen she would give notice so that they might
open the door and get ready. The seance began at 9.40. It
had been suggested that until the " force " worked up she
should operate with the table free of the apparatus, but she
presently said that it would only cause disturbance if a change
were made after the manifestations had begun, and asked
that the stocks should be put into use at once. Peyond a
few unimportant tilts nothing whatever occurred for an hour.
The light was altered several times without result. Eventually,
at 10.34, the stocks were removed, and F. and P. lay on
the floor to control the medium's feet. Still no result, and,
at 10.45 p.m., the light was altogether put out. Shortly
afterwards, a complete levitation took place to which, owing
to the darkness, no attention was paid. Some violent curtain
movements and touches, in what appear to be complete con-
ditions of control, except as regards the medium's head, then
followed. At 11.42 the faint red light was again lit, and
another complete levitation occurred under what seemed good
conditions, but the light was again shortly afterwards extin-
guished. From 12.11 ami. till the seance ended at 12.28
a.m. P. continued to experience a series of touches on the
back (as to which see his and F.'s notes). They were note-
worthy owing to the fact that both the medium's hands were
held during part of their continuance by both the controllers.
This seance proved, on account of the bad conditions of
light and the sparseness of the phenomena, the least interesting
of the series. Two alternative explanations offer themselves.
1st. That the medium feared the test of photography, and
therefore limited her activity ; 2nd. that owing to her fatigue
and ill-health, and possibly to the bad weather, the " force
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance X. 529
was weak. She seemed greatly annoyed at the failure of the
stance, and afterwards offered us another one, gratis, to make
up. She frequently asked for the light to be raised, but tilts
of the table invariably insisted on its being lowered again.
Her demeanour was at least consistent with her sincerity. It
will be seen that no new kind of phenomenon was added to
the general programme, with one possible exception, an imprint
in the clay, of which no mention is made in the Shorthand
Eeport. This was found on the clay being examined on one
of the occasions in the early part of the seance when the light
was turned up. Five finger marks had been made at random,
i.e. not in the shape of a hand. A real finger mark, in the
same surface, shows the papillae markings ; but these did not.
Eusapia's own fingers on examination showed no trace of clay.
The imprints were produced under entirely non-evidential
conditions, unexpectedly, and at a time when attention was
concentrated on securing a photograph of a levitation, and no
particular care was being exercised against the medium's gaining
access to the cabinet. Except, however, that it is strange that
this particular phenomenon, often unsuccessfully attempted
before, should have been produced on an evening when the
" force " was otherwise so weak, and that it was produced
just at the period of the seance when fraud could easily have
been employed, no safe conclusion can be drawn.
Shorthand Report of Seance X.
December 16th, 1908.
Present, F., C, B., Ryan, Professor Galeotti, and M.. shorthand
writer. Nothing in tJie cabinet excepting a chair, tied down,
on the seat of which lies a cake of clay.
[Lights not recorded, bxit were as in stance IX. F., June £4-109.]
9.40 p.m. Seance begins.
Light I.
9.4.6 p.m. Stocks are put to table.
9.54 2xm- Table begins tilting.
9.58 p.m.
2l
530 E. Feilcling, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Light II.
9.59 p.m.
Light III.
10.0 p.m.
Light IV.
10.S p.m. Various tilts.
10.7 p.m. Prof. G. " John, hurry up, as photographers are
waiting!'
10.13 p.m.
No Light.
10.27 p.m. For convenience of photographers medium says
that she will make a certain sign when she feels a levitation
is coming.
10.34 p.m.
Light IV.
10.35 p.m. Stocks removed.
Chair with
F. holding clay on it.
right foot. —
A
'Prof. G,
R. holding
left foot.
10.45 p.m. Door of photographer's room closed.
No Light.
Complete levitatioa of the table.
10.58 p.m.
Light IV.
11.5 p.m.
Lix.] Sitt ings with Eusapia : Seance X. 531
No Light.
11.6 p.m. F. The curtain is pulled away from under my foot,
which was on it.
F. I had hold of the medium's two feet, and my left foot was
lying on the top of the curtain, which was flicked away strongly
from underneath my foot.
B. Her left hand on my right hand on the left side of the table.
G. She is holding my hand. I can feel her thumb.
11.10 p.m. F. The curtain blows out.
F. I was holding both feet, and she kicked up with her right
foot.
11.11 p.m. C. A blow like a mallet on the table.
F. The curtain is violently blown about.
G. I have the whole of her right hand in my left hand, feeling
fingers.
B. Her left hand on the palm of my right hand resting on the
surface of this end of the table.
F. At the time of the blow she kicked up with her right foot,
that is to say, her knee. Her foot certainly did not touch the
table. [She lifted her right knee about four inches, and brought the
foot, which I was holding, down with a stamp. The blow resounded
as the foot came down, not as it went up. F., Dec. 16/08.]
B. My hand is under her left foot, between her left foot and
the table leg.
11.13 p.m. B. There is a hand that has caught hold of my
knee and squeezes it.
B. Her left hand on my right hand. I feel distinctly that it is
her left hand. I hold it by the thumb.
G. She has her right hand on the back of my hand in the
middle of the table.
11.15 p.m.
Light IV.
F. The curtain conies right out over my head.
F. There was, at the same time, a convulsive movement of her
right foot [which I was holding. F., Dec. 16/08].
532 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light IV.]
G. I felt a hand press me.
G. She holds my hand on her knee by her two fingers.
B. She is holding the whole of my right hand with her left
hand on her left knee.
11.24 V-m- F- Her left foot is kicking about
Complete levitation of the table.
F. I had both feet.
11.27 p.m. The curtain blows out.
G. My left hand is resting on her right knee. I can feel the
whole of her hand.
B. Her left hand on my right hand on her left knee. I am
certain it is her left hand because I can feel her thumb.
F. I have both feet.
11.30 p.m. The right curtain blows out.
G. Same control as before.
B. Same control as before.
F. Same control as before.
11.31 p.m. The curtain was blown over G.'s head.
G. My hand is on the table, and she holds it.
B. Her left hand was holding my right hand on her left knee.
B. Something touched me. She held my right hand in her left
hand towards the curtain, and I felt a touch.
G. My hand is on the table, and she holds it.
G. I am touched on the shoulder.
G. My hand is on the surface of the table, and I can feel the
whole of her hand on my hand, her thumb under and her fingers
over it.
B. I am holding her left hand in my left hand on the table,
my right hand on the back of her neck.
11.42 p.m. Complete levitation of the table.
G. Control same as before.
B. Control same as before.
F. I have both feet.
LIX0 Sittings with Eusapia : Seance X. 533
[Light IV.]
12.0 p.m. F. gets tip from beneath the table, R. also abandons
his position.
Prof. G.
12.11 a.m. c.
No Light.
B. Something is playing about with my back.
Long discussion between F. and B. about a supposed substitution
of hands. [ When B. reported the touch on his back, I noticed
that the medium's right hand ivas only partly on my left. I
felt down quickly with my right hand and found that her
fingers were resting on one of B.'s hands. I said in Italian,
"The control is not good." The medium at once agreed that
it was not good, her hands being too close together. But she
showed me the position of her left hand, which was under B.'s
right. B. stated that it had been there all the time. After
this B. and I together controlled both of the medium's hands,
I leaning over to B.'s side of table. The touches, however, on
B.'s back still continued as before. F., Dec. 16/08.]
12.13 a.m. B. There is something touching my back.
B. She had her left hand on my right hand on the table on
the left side of the table, and her left foot was resting on my right
foot, and our knees are touching.
F. Her right hand is squeezing mine very hard on her right lap.
Her right foot is squeezing very hard on my foot, and I have just
verified that it is her right foot.
B. Something is playing with my back again.
F. At that time she squeezed my right hand under the table.
B. Same conditions and control as before.
F. Same control as before.
534 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[No Light.]
B. Something is playing about with my back again.
F. That is extremely good. There is absolutely no possibility
of hand substitution.
12.20 a.m. B. This thing keeps playing on my back.
B. Her left foot is pressing on my foot. [While I was feeling
these touches on my back, I repeatedly placed my left hand on
the medium's left hand, which was on my right hand, and verified
that it was really her left hand by passing my left hand all up
her arm to the shoulder, and I also verified that it was her left
foot that was resting on my right foot by passing my left hand
down from her knee to the foot which was resting on mine.
B., Dec. 16/08.]
12.22 a.m. F. Rather good partial levitation.
12.23 a.m. B. Something is knocking on the back of my chair.
B. and F. Control perfect, the same as before.
12.24 a.m. B. Something is playing with my chair.
F. I have my left hand on her left wrist, and her right hand
is on the top of my right hand, so that I can feel both her hands.
I still hold her left hand.
B. And I verify by feeling right up to her shoulder.
F. My left foot behind her right heel, and her right leg touched
by my left.
B. She says she wants to touch my chair, which she does.
B. Something touched me.
12.27 a.m. B. Something is playing with my hand. Again it
does so, now under my arm.
12.28 a.m. Stance terminated.
Note on Seance X. by E. Feilding.
I think that the incident reported at 12.11 a.m. may be somewhat
instructive, and that it may throw some light on the vexed question
of the frequency of Eusapia's fraudulent substitution of hands. In
view of the Cambridge report, and the reports of other observers,
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance X. 535
it is clearly impossible to deny that she resorts, at times, to this
trick.
My own experience on this occasion, however, leads me to think
it is not impossible that it is often, in the darkness, thought she
had resorted to it when, in fact, she has not, and that her hands
have, through weariness or carelessness, got into what may be called
the " substitution position," without its being taken practical advan-
tage of. I noticed that I only had half her hand, and immediately
felt for the other half, and found it on B.'s left hand. I at once
jumped to the conclusion that she must have produced the touches
on B.'s back with her other hand. In accordance with my promise
I told her my control was not good. She agreed ; but lifted
my hand to feel her other hand, which I found was under B's
right. Even then, had not the touches continued at intervals for
about a quarter of an hour on B's back, I should still have felt
dissatisfied, but our attention being called to the close position of
the hands, we took especial pains to control them, and the touches
continued without the least interruption.
E. F., Dec. 19th, 1908.
Note on Seance X. by W. W. Baggally.
There was a good deal of confusion at this seance owing to the
repeated opening and shutting of the door between the seance room
and C.'s room, where the photographic camera had been placed with
which it was intended that a photograph of the seance table should
be taken at the moment of its complete levitation. The accidental
flash, at one time, of the magnesium powder was also a cause of
disturbance.
Notwithstanding these disquieting incidents (which had a dis-
turbing effect on the mind of Eusapia), good phenomena took place
towards the end of the seance.
The repeated touches on my back between 12.11 and 12.23 were
to me of great evidential value, notwithstanding the prevailing
darkness at the time, as I not only assured myself that I had
control of the medium's left hand and left foot, by feeling them
with my right hand and my right foot, but also by repeatedly,
while I was being touched, passing my left hand all up her left
arm to her shoulder, thus verifying that it was really her left hand
that rested on my right, and by also continually passing my left
hand down her left knee to the foot which rested on mine, thus
verifying that it was her left foot that rested on my right.
536 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
The touches could not, by any possibility, have been produced
by her head, as when I passed my left hand up her left arm, I
verified the position of her head.
The touches were not produced by the hand or foot that I had
under control, nor by her head. The medium's right hand and
right foot were under perfect control of F., therefore the touches on
my back appeared to me evidential.
W. W. B., Dec. 16th, 1908.
Remarks on Seance XI.
December 19th, 1908.
This was the extra seance which Eusapia had offered, to
make up for the failure of the tenth. C. had been obliged
to leave Naples. F. and B. decided to make another attempt
to get the '
higher phenomena ' of materialisation, and to
discard the recording of the details of control of the less im-
portant manifestations. They also invited Signor Zingaropoli,
a gentleman of high official position in the avvocatura of the
municipality, very well known to Eusapia and thoroughly
familiar with her phenomena ; and also Mrs. and Miss Hutton,
two English ladies, friends of his, and who had attended a
few of Eusapia's seances. Although, it is true, the '
higher
phenomena ' did not appear, the stance proved an extremely
fruitful one, and the shorthand report, not very complete in
itself, but amplified by subsequent notes, should be carefully
read. It will be sufficient if attention is here called to the
more remarkable occurrences.
(1) The very remarkable curtain movement at 10.11 p.m.
which occurred in the bright No. 1 light, shortly
after F. had carefully examined the curtain, gathered
it together and placed it away from the medium.
(2) The movements of the stool at 10.19 p.m., outside the
cabinet, within a minute or two after it had been
placed on the floor at a distance of two or three feet
from the medium, with the express purpose of seeing
whether she could cause it to move. Note that the
movements were occasionally sideways, that the short-
hand writer, who had placed the stool, was standing
close to it while the movements were taking place,
Lix.J Sittings with Eusapia : Stance XI. 537
and on several occasions felt around the stool to show
that there was no attachment.
(3) The appearance of an object like a head with large
features, or a hand with the finders crooked so as to
simulate a head, wrapped up in the curtain, at 10.54
p.m. and at 11.33 and 11.34 p.m.
(4) The repeated graspings of B., kneeling on the table from
11.02 p.m. to 11.09 p.m., by a hand through the curtain,
(5) The white thing which appeared 3 ft. to the medium's
left, i.e. from the corner near the window, at 11.16 p.m.
(6) The touches that occurred simultaneously on both the
controllers' laps at 11.45 p.m., when both the medium's
hands were visibly on the table.
(7) The levitation of the clay at 12.15 a.m., from the floor
behind the medium's chair, inside the curtain, and its
appearance between Mrs. H. and the medium at a
height of about 3 \ ft. from the ground, wrapped up
in the curtain, held there as if by some one behind
the curtain until taken by Mrs. H. and F.
(8) The levitation, at 12.26 a.m., of the stool, which, on
account of its extreme slowness, was perhaps the most
remarkable of all the transportations of objects which
we had yet witnessed. The inception of this movement
was seen by the shorthand writer, who was standing
close to the stool as it began its upward climb.
(9) The long series of touches, lasting almost continuously
through a period of half an hour (12.34 a.m. to 1.6
a.m.), experienced by B. as of a hand playing about
on his left hand or wrist as he held it against the
curtain. It will be noticed that during part of this
time B. held both the medium's thumbs in front of her
on the table, at one time in both of his hands which
he kept far apart and at another time in his right
hand, the medium's thumbs and hands being visible.
(10) Finally, the series of raps produced on the door leading
into B.'s room, at the side of the cabinet, at the close of
the seance, which must be regarded as the only really
evidential raps obtained throughout the whole series.
The No. 1 light was on, and the room additionally flooded
with light through the open door of the next room.
538 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Shorthand Eepokt of Seance XI.
December IQth, 1908.
Present: F., B., Mrs. and Miss Hutton, Signor Zingaropoli, and
M., shorthand writer.
In cabinet : Photographic plate hanging to wall as before.
The board of clay is on the ground in the centre of the cabinet.
The small guitar is upside down in the corner of the cabinet
behind the clay.
[Lights not recorded, but were as in seances IX. and X. F.,
June 34/09.]
Guitar.
Board with
clay.
Miss H.
light I.
10.5 p.m. Tilts, non-evidential, begin.
F. Partial levitation of the table is coming on.
F. The table has been up in the air on the two legs furthest
from her for the last half minute. I am holding her hand on
the top of it. It is wriggling about.
10.8 p.m. Tilts become very violent.
Complete levitation of the table.
10.11 p.m. Curtain blows out.
10.11 p.m. F. I am putting my hand down between her dress
and the curtain, and now I have made a perfectly clear space
between her foot and the curtain.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance XL 539
[Light I.]
10.16 p.m. F. I saw her dress bulging out to the right.
F. Her foot is certainly on mine.
F. It is coming out again. It is coming out a different way
this time.
10.18 p.m. Tilts ask for less light.
Light II. but immediately afterwards
Light I. again.
The little stool is at her request placed outside the curtain to
the left of the medium, about a yard distant from her left
foot.
F. I saw the curtain move then on to the medium. I could see
a perfectly clear space between the chair of the medium and the
curtain. Again while I am looking at an absolutely clear space
the curtain rushes out and completely engulfs the right side of
the medium.
[This was the first time I have seen the curtain blow out under such
absolutely evidential conditions. I was sitting beside it ; I had at
10.11 pulled it right away from the medium so that a clear space of
a foot was between it and her, visible right down to the carpet,
the bottom of the curtain being gathered together in a bunch
away from her foot. I then asked that the curtain might again
be made to blow out. I watched it closely. The medium several
times held her hand out towards it, but it did not move. Her
dress then made two bulging movements out towards it from
below her chair, on the right, but did not reach it. At 10.18 p.m.
the table tilted five times for less light. I protested and asked
that the curtain might be moved in the original bright light,
and the light was immediately turned up again. I watched the
curtain continuously throughout, and suddenly the whole of the
left edge of the right curtain, i.e. the edge nearest to her right
shoulder, rushed out and completely enveloped her right side.
F, Dec. 20/08.]
10.19 p.m. Five tilts for less light.
540 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Light II.
M. I see the little stool move.
Mrs. H. I am squeezing the medium's left hand in my right.
M. The stool again moved while I was trying to close the
window doors which had become unlatched.
10.23 p.m. Mrs. H. Three knocks on my chair.
Mrs. H. Control same as before.
Mrs. H. The little stool is moving again.
M. While I was looking at it.
[At medium's request I had fetched the stool from another part
of the room and placed it as stated above. I then returned to
my place shortly after, at 10.19. I saw the stool move. I
walked over towards it, re-examined it by putting my hands right
round it, and ascertained that there was no attachment, and it
again immediately moved sideways, i.e. not towards the medium.
There was a clear space between the stool and the medium.
M., Dec. 20/08.]
10. 25 p.m. Five tilts ask for less light.
Light III.
F. In this light I can see the separate fingers of the medium.
10.37 p.m. F. Note that I verified the clay after the medium had
entered the room and taken her seat.
10.28 p.m. Mrs. H. The curtain is moving towards me.
F. More movements—2 or 3 times, very large.
10.30 p.m. Mrs. H. The curtain still moves.
M. notes: The medium says she wishes to touch something, which
she does, then replacing her hand.
F. I can see the medium's left hand on the table; her right
hand is on her lap in mine. Her left foot on Mrs. Hutton's
foot, and her right foot on mine.
F. Substitution of hands!
Mrs. H. I thought that I still had hold of the medium's left
hand.
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Stance XL. 541
[Light III.]
[The medium was now holding Mrs. H.'s and my hands on her lap
close together. I was looking over the mediums lap, the hands
being obscured by the table, and I saw a hand moving about
toivards the curtain. I ashed Mrs. H. if she held the mediums
left. She said " No, she has made a substitution." Her right
hand was only partly on mine, and she must have given Mrs. H.
the impression that she continued to hold the left by touching
her with the fingers of her right hand. The movement of the
hand I saw was quite deliberate and visible. Nothing followed.
F., Dec. 20'/OS,,]
[It seems difficult to suppose that her intent was fraudulent, as
she must have known that in the light which prevailed a trick
woidd have been detected. F., May 23/09.]
[I felt the thumb nail of the mediums rigid hand and imme-
diately suspected she had substituted the right for the left hand,
thus leaving the left free. My suspicion tvas confirmed when I
felt the left return to its original position, clasping my right.
C. H, Dec. 22/08.]
10.34 p.m. Mrs. H. Three knocks on my chair.
10.35 p.m. Mrs. H. Three taps on my chair again.
10.43 p.m. Mrs. H. A hand is pressing my right thigh.
F. I can see the medium's left hand on the table. Her right
hand in my left.
Mrs. H. Four raps on my chair.
10.4-7 p.m. Light J/..
Light IV.
F. Medium has her rigid leg right across my knees. Her right
hand is on her right lap.
10.50 p.m. F. Something white appeared over the medium's
head.
F. Her right hand is over on my corner of the table in mine.
H. Her left hand is on my right hand on the table.
542 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light IV.]
10.54 p.m. Mrs. H. A black thing came out.
F. The left curtain came right over the table, obscuring Mrs. H.
[This appeared like an elongated hand with very long fingers,
which were bent. The curtain was tightly stretched over the
object, which waved three times. It appeared at a considerable
height above the medium's head. I had firm control. C. H.,
Dec. 22/08.]
F. Medium's right band was in mine on the table.
Mrs. H. Her left hand in mine on my corner of the table.
10.55 p.m. F. A light appeared over the medium's head.
[This light was different from either of the two lights we had pre-
viously seen. It was more of a yellow colour, not blue-green,
and it did not sparkle. F., Dec. 20/08.]
F. Her right hand immovable in mine.
Mrs. H. Medium's left hand in mine on this corner of the table.
Mrs. H. Five knocks on my chair.
1 0.5*7 p.m. Mrs. H. Something has just touched my right side.
10.58 'p.m. Light 4 is now shaded by two thicknesses of a silk
handkerchief.
Light IV. shaded.
F. I can see the face and hands and position of the medium,
but I can no longer see the individual fingers.
11 p.m. F. Something touched me on the right hand, under
the table.
F. Medium's right hand is visible on the table.
Mrs. H. She holds my right hand in her left on the table, the
two hands are separate.
11.1 p.m. Mrs. H. There is a light on the white window curtain.
[A golden yellow light remained for two or three seconds on the
white curtain to the right of me, then shifted its position a few
inches to the right and disappeared. C. H., Dec. 22/08.]
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Stance XI. 543
[Light IV. shaded.]
11.2 p.m. B. I get up on to the table at medium's request.
Guitar
Miss H.
B. Oh, an arm comes and touches my elbow through the
curtain. A distinct arm on my arm. It is much too high for
the medium to reach.
F. Medium's hand is right in mine on my corner of the table.
B. I am touched again. It is pulling my hand. I can feel the
fingers. It is coming again.
Mrs. H. She is holding my hand in hers on this corner of the
table.
B. My hand is at least three feet or more above the head of
the medium.
F. At the time of the last phenomenon I measured the distance
between Mrs. H.'s fingers and mine; it is about 9 to 12 inches.
B. A hand caught hold of my four fingers. I distinctly felt
the fingers of the hand and the thumb, which gave me a close
squeeze.
F. Medium's two hands were in the extreme corners of the table,
the left held in Mrs. H.'s hand and the right in the extreme right
of the corner in mine.
[About this time, while B. was on the table, an incident occurred
which was not caught by the stenographer. The medium's head
had retired into the shadow between the curtains. Suddenly I
perceived her head about a foot higher up, looking out of the
curtain as though trying to appear as a '
spirit ' head to B. I
noticed no movement of her body, and the effect was exactly
544 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington.
[Light IV. shaded.]
[part
that described in Alice in Wonderland of a neck becoming sud-
denly elongated. This must have been an illusion ; I cannot
account for it. The medium must have known her head was
visible to me.1
F., Dec. 20/08.]
11.5 p.m. Mrs. H. A hand is pressing my hip on my right side.
F. My left hand is on her left, which is holding Mrs. H.'s arm,
and her right is on the top of my right hand.
11.8 p.m. B. Something has moved inside the cabinet.
11.9 p.m. B. That hand came out and nearly pulled me off
the table. It came out as I was getting down.
F. I had her right hand on the right corner of the table.
Mrs. H. I had the whole of the medium's left hand pressing on
mine on the table.
[B. returned to his seat. F., June 34-/09.]
Oxtitar
Board with
clay.
Miss H.
11.11 p.m. Mrs. H. A hand is pressing my right shoulder.
F. I have her right hand visibly on the table in my right hand.
I had my left hand over both knees. Her head was visible.
Mrs. H. And I held her left hand on the table.
11.14 p.m. Mrs. H. The curtain is being drawn.
1
Mrs. H. writes, Dec. 24/08, "You may be interested to know that I have
seen the elongation of the neck which you describe as a scene from Alice in
Wonder/and on other occasions, although not at this last stance. I was speaking
with Prof. Lutzenberger, a well-known physician and psychist, and he told me
that Eusapia had given some very successful manifestations of this elongated neck
and of her apparent power to grow a third arm. These experiments took place
here last year. ..."
LIX.] Sittings ivith Eusapia : Seance XI. 545
[Light IV. shaded.]
11.16 p.m. Mrs. H. Something white appeared.
F. From here I can see the white thing which comes out about
three feet to the left of the medium's head. It looks to me
from here very much like a very large handful of tow.
[This white thing came out quite deliberately ; it was irregular
in shape. It stayed out about a foot beyond the curtain for
2 or 3 seconds and then retired. F., Dec. 20/08.]
[The white thing which came out from the curtain quite near
my right shoulder was of uncertain shape and looked like a
white cloud or a quantity of cotton wool. C. H., Dec. 22/08.]
F. Her right hand is on the table visible to me in the whole of
my right.
Mrs. H. I have her left hand here on my corner of the table.
F. There can be absolutely no question of substitution now, her
hands are far too far apart and the curtain is between them. I
have my left hand on her two knees, and her head is visible.
11.18 p.m. H. Something has touched me.
F. Medium's right hand is holding mine some inches off the table.
My left hand always on her two knees.
Mrs. H. Her left hand is on mine and her head is always
visible.
11.21 p.m. F. I am touched gently on my left knee.
F. My left hand is across medium's two knees, and her right
hand is visible to me on the table.
Mrs. H. Her left hand is over mine on the table.
11.28 p.m. M. Medium asks for control to be verified.
F. My left hand was on the top of her head and I felt some-
thing just touch the top of my fingers.
F. Her right hand visibly in mine on the table.
Mrs. H. Her left hand was on the back of my hand on the table.
11.30 p.m. F. A hand pressed me through the curtain on my
left hand, which was behind her head.
F. Her right hand is visibly in mine on the table.
Mrs. H. Mine is on the table, her left hand on the back of it.
2 m
546 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
[Light IV. shaded.]
F. There can be no question of a substitution of hands here
because her left hand is the other side of the curtain which is
over the table.
11.33 p.m. F. Medium asks me to lean my head against hers
and look in a particular direction [i.e. towards Mrs. H. F.,
Dec. SO/08].
F. There comes a black thing right between me and the light,
between me and B.
Mrs. H. Here it comes.
Mrs. H. There is a hand pressing me.
F. Her right hand was close to my face on the right side of the
table holding my hand entirely.
Mrs. H. My right hand on the table with her left hand holding it.
Mrs. H. Again something has touched my right leg, and I have
not lost control of her hand.
Mrs. H. My jacket is being pulled on the right side. I have
not lost control.
11.34 p.m. Mrs. H. The black thing again.
F. This time it was a head, I saw the features. It looked to
me like a head wrapped up in the curtain. It remained out I
should say about 3 or 4 seconds. It went as far as between
me and the light. Her right hand was holding mine firmly, right
round the thumb. Her head was against mine.
Mrs. H. Control just the same as before.
[To me this appeared like a large black head with clearly marked
features more than life size, as though made of stiff black muslin.
It was attached to a kind of a body, it came slowly out over
the medium's left shoulder past Mrs. H, well over the table
towards the light. The curtain being very thin and transparent,
the effect I saw might have been produced by a head inside it,
the curtain being drawn closely over the features, which were
distinct, and revealed themselves owing to the light being on the
other side of them, or the same effect might have been produced
by a head made out of stiffened black muslin or gimp without
any curtain outside it. I am absolutely certain of the control
Lis.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance XI. 547
[Light IV. shaded.]
of the right hand, which was close to my own face. F.,
Dec. 20/08.]
[The black object was decidedly covered with the curtain (not
black muslin). It [the curtain] came out on my side close to
me and it was tightly stretched over the object in which I
distinguished the same elongated hand seen at 10.54 p.m. The
fingers seemed to imitate a profile like an ombre chinoise, the
middle finger crooked like a Eoman nose, the folded thumb form-
ing a chin. This is a manifestation which has never failed to
appear at any of Eusapia's seances at which I have been present.
... I am perfectly certain of the control of the left hand.
C. H., Dec. 22-24/08.]
11.38 p.m. Medium asks F. to pinch her.
F. Now I am pinching her.
Mrs. H. I am pinched on my right arm.
F. I am pinching again.
Mrs. H. Both at the same time now.
F. I pinched the medium and Mrs. H. felt a pinch simul-
taneously, but not always, that is to say, sometimes I pinched
and she did not feel the pinch.
[The medium told me that if I pinched her Mrs. H. would feel
simultaneous pinches. I did so first on her left shoulder and
subsequently on her right arm, the first two or three pinches
Mrs. H. was simultaneously pinched, but the last two or three
she felt nothing. F, Dec. 20/08.]
[I also felt the last two pinches, but not simultaneously ; about
a second after. 0. H., Dec. 22/08.]
11.41 p.m. B. and F. change places.
548 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
L
Light IV. shaded.]
11.45 p.m. Mrs. H. A hand is pulling my dress. The hand is
pulling me in my lap.
Mrs. H. Both medium's hands are on the table.
F. (compressing a description given by B. and Mrs. H. together)
A hand was playing about on both B.'s and Mrs. H.'s laps,
simultaneously.
F. Each of them was holding one of the medium's hands on
opposite corners of the table. I can see both hands from here.
[I reported the control here being nearer the stenographer and
both, hands being visible to me. F., Dec. SO/08.]
B. I can see the medium's hand on mine. My left knee against
her right knee, my left foot against her right foot.
Mrs. H. Her left heel is on the toe of my foot.
F. Mrs. H.'s dress was twitched that time.
11.49 p.m. B. A hand touched me. It caught hold of my arm.
This hand apparently came from behind the medium. It was
not the medium's right hand. I am absolutely certain of this
because I can see the medium's right hand, clearly, in front of
me. There ! it is done again, with the same control.
F. We xvill not describe the control any more.
[After this series of touches tve decided not to interrupt the pro-
ceedings by describing the control but to await developments
quietly. F., Dec. 20/08.]
11.49 p.m. ? B. or Mrs. H. A hand caught hold of my arm.
The same thing has happened again.
11.51 p.m. F. Something white appeared over the medium's
head.
11.56 p.m. B. Something came out two or three times.
B. Something is keeping time with the tune on my leg [Z was
singing].
B. The curtain comes out and covers the medium's head altogether.
LIX.] Sittings ivith Eusapia : Seance XI. 549
[Light IV. shaded.]
12.3 a.m. B. Fingers were playing on my hand for several
minutes.
[I here walked over to the curtain to try and get a touch. M.,
Dec. SO/08.]
12.10 a.m. M. notes: While I was trying for a touch, the
curtain bulged violently several times but I cannot say whether
or not this was done by movements of the medium's shoulder or
feet.
Mrs. H. Something came right on to the table and seized me
violently and thumped on the table.
12.11 a.m. F. Mrs. H.'s left hand was seized by the wrist by
a hand and dragged across the table to touch B.'s face.
[My left arm was seized suddenly above the wrist and rapidly
dragged across the table and my hand was violently shaken in
B.'s face, as if to strike him. I had complete control of the left
hand of medium. C. H.:
Dec. 22/08.]
[I was looking at Mrs. H.'s left hand when it suddenly made a
movement across the table as though striking out at B.'s nose.
I did not see any hand holding it. F., Dec. 20/08.]
B. Oh! Here's the hand again. I saw it that time.
1°2.1S a.m. B. and Z. change places.
Guitar.
Board with
clay.
F,
Miss H.
12.15 a.m. F. The clay comes right out over the table in front
of Mrs. H. and is apparently held there, within the curtain.
M. I touched it as it was entering Mrs. H. s hands but felt
nothing else.
550 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light IV. shaded.]
[The clay had been on the floor of the cabinet just behind
medium's chair in such a position that she could not reach it
with her hands without stooping in a necessarily obvious manner.
It came quickly out wrapped up in the curtain between Mrs. H.
and the medium. I then took it in my hands and unwrapped
it. There were no finger marks on it. The clay had come
alone, without the board on which it stood. F., Dec. 20/08.]
12.17 a.m. Bell (which we had placed on stance table at
beginning) falls off (non evidential).
12.26 a.m. M. The little stool, which was to the left of the
medium, on the ground, while I was looking at it, approached
the curtain, gradually climbed up it, very slowly, to about 1J
feet above Mrs. H.'s right shoulder then approached the table,
drawing curtain with it, and remained there in front of Mrs. H.
[As the control was no longer to be given in full I had stood
up to try to see some of the phenomena and was standing behind
and to the right of Mrs. H. I was looking down at the little stool
which was on the floor about a foot from the curtain and about
2h feet from the medium's leg and wondering whether any thing-
would happen. Suddenly, as I was looking, I saw it approach
the curtain, and the curtain go out towards it. It then climbed
very very slowly indeed up the curtain, horizontally, one corner
only pointing to and touching the curtain on the outside. It
gave me the impression of being drawn up as if by a kind of
magnet on the other side of the curtain. It slid past the curtain
which remained motionless. I felt up the curtain as it was
climbing up, on both sides of the stool, but not between the
stool and the curtain, as I was afraid of interfering with the
movements. There was nothing tangible behind it. When it had
climbed up to a distance of about 1J feet above Mrs. H.'s
shoulder it seemed to turn and, drawing the curtain with it,
went over Mrs. H.'s shoulder on to the seance table. At the
moment it was turning I was curious to verify the position of
the medium's left hand. I began by Mrs. H.'s shoulder, felt all
down her arm, discovered she was holding the medium's left
hand, which I felt right up to the medium's shoulder. On
bringing my hand down again to the medium's hand, she made a
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia: Seance XI. 551
[Light IV. shaded.]
violent movement as if to push it away and said " Somebody is
breaking the current" ("fili"). M., Dec. 20/08.]
[I first saw the stool when it was about the height of Mrs. H.'s
shoulder. It moved very slowly towards me and came on to the
table over Eusapia's left hand which Mrs. H. said she held
firmly all the time. F., Dec. 20/08.]
[M. who was standing behind Mrs. H.'s chair had suddenly said
" Oh, look at the stool." I turned round and saw the stool very
slowly climbing up the curtain at its extreme edge near the
window curtain, by one corner, and, as M. says, as though drawn
up by a magnet from within the curtain. I saw M. feel on both
sides of the corner by which it was being drawn up, and he
reported that he felt nothing. The stool appeared to slide along the
stuff of the curtain. I also saw M. quickly slip his hand down
Mrs. H.'s right arm and up Eusapia's left arm to her shoulder to
make absolutely sure that her hand was firmly held on the table.
When the stool reached a point above the level of Mrs. H.'s
head, it slowly turned as though pivoted on the corner, came
towards Eusapia and descended on to the seance table between
her and Mrs. H. F., May 23/09.]
[The stool, which I had myself replaced in its original position
rather more than a yard from medium at her request, suddenly
struck me gently on the right side of the forehead. It then
passed before me and I saw it quite clear of the curtain as it
remained two or three seconds poised in front of me before
settling partly on my right arm, but not supported by my arm.
It just touched the sleeve of my jacket. C. H, Dec. 22/08.]
12.32 a.m. Mrs. H. Something white appeared between the
black and white curtains.
[The same cloud-like object as at 11.14 p.m., but somewhat
smaller. C. H, Dec. 22/08.]
[A question was asked as to whether a spirit ivas present con-
nected with any one in the circle. Tilts of the table in reply
to questions requiring answers of only " Yes" or "No" indicated
that B.'s father was present. B., therefore, resumed control of
medium to be near the curtain, and asked for a touch from
552 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
[Light IV. shaded.]
his father s left hand, which, owing to an accident, would disclose
a mark of identity. F., Dec. SO/OS.]
[The touch was not given, and tilts in reply to qtiestions asked
by F. about B.'s father gave wrong answers. B., Oct. 19109.]
B. and Z. again change places.
12.34 a.m. B. Something is playing with my knees now.
12.43 a.m. B. Something is playing with my sleeve.
12.43 a.m. B. holds his left hand towards the curtain to try
and get a touch from his alleged father's hand.
B. My right hand on medium's right hand.
Mrs. H. I am absolutely certain I have hold of her left hand.
F. Note that B.'s sleeve is continuously being pulled while he
is holding his hand down towards the curtain.
B. The curtain is jerked three times, as much as to say that I
shall be touched by my father's hand.
12.45 a.m. B. The right curtain blew right out again.
12.4-6 a.m. B. I have taken my hand away from the curtain.
12.50 a.m. B. The curtain blew out and went back again.
12.50 a.m. Violent movements of the curtain.
12.51 a.m. B. My left hand is squeezed several times in response
to my questions asking my alleged " Father " to come and grasp
me by the left hand.
B. Now I am grasped by the arm.
B. I can see both the medium's hands on the table.
Miss H.
Lix.] Sittings with Eusapia : Seance XI. 553
[Light IV. shaded.]
12.52 a.m. B. I am touched on the wrist of my left hand.
B. I am holding medium's right hand by the wrist.
12.54 a.m. B. I am continuously being touched.
B. I can always see medium's hands.
12.56 a.m. The curtain has violently blown over the table.
B. Something keeps touching me, several times, whilst I am
holding my left hand clown inside the cabinet asking " Father
to give me a grasp of his left hand so that I might recognise him.
B. I have got the right hand of the medium.
Mrs. H. I have the left hand of the medium.
1 a.m. B. This hand has again come out, and is playing
with me now. [B. asked Mrs. H. to let him hold both the
medium's hands. F., May 23/09.]
B. I have got both her hands now.
B. Yes. It has touched me again.
B. It is an absolute proof to me that this hand is not the
hand of the medium.
B. I have got both her thumbs, I am holding her right hand
in my left hand, my right hand is on the left side of the table
holding her left.
B. This hand is still playing about me.
B. now takes hold of both thumbs of medium in his right hand.
F. B.'s left hand is lying on the corner of the table, and a
hand from inside the curtain plays with it. Meanwhile B. is now
holding the two thumbs of the medium in his right hand, visibly
to me.
1.3 a.m. B. Oh, it is touching me again.
B. I have verified the foot control.
1.6 a.m. B. The hand is again playing about with me.
1.15 a.m. Medium says she is tired. Lights are gradually
turned up, and F. goes into G.'s room with Miss H., but medium
still keeps her place, as also do B., Mrs. H. and M.
554 E. Feildvng, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
Light I.
After a time,
B. Medium makes three gestures towards the door behind me,
and three noises are heard on it.
M. notes this is in light 1; C.'s room door open with full
electric light on.
Mrs. H. I heard them.
B. Several times medium made gestures, and each time raps
are heard on the door. These gestures and raps were made a
considerable number of times, finishing by four large gestures
and four loud raps. Medium then held my right hand in her
left, and scratched the back of my right hand with the nails of
her right hand, and a loud rasping sound was heard on the
door behind me.
[B. called me in from the other room, and I asked Eusapia to
repeat the raps. It seemed, however, as though the force were
expended. She made three or four gestures, and no raps followed.
Then she made a final gesture, and a loud rap followed. It
appeared to me distinctly to come from the door beside, which
I was standing, her feet at least three feet from the door, while
her hand, as she made the gesture, did not approach within six
inches of it. There was a clear space between the whole of
the medium and the door. F., Dec. 20/08.]
[Mrs. H. writes, Dec. 24/08: "I want to draw your attention
to a curious incident. When, after the seance, and after success-
fully producing the raps on the door, Eusapia failed to produce
them again, she seized my right hand in her left and squeezed
my hand with great force. At the same time, she took the
curtain in her right hand and squeezed it tightly, as if she
were pressing a wet sponge. She .retained both my hand and
the curtain (the latter between her thumb and forefinger, extending
the other fingers), and then made the usual gestures towards
the door, and produced the raps, though feebly. On again attempt-
ing to do so—without either my hand or the curtain—she failed.
It seemed almost as if the curtain were impregnated with some
fluid, and my own sensation is that of my strength being drawn
out of me, leaving a feeling of great exhaustion."]
MX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Conclusions. 555
IV.
INDIVIDUAL CONCLUSIONS OF THE INVESTIGATORS.
Final Note by Hereward Carrington.
As a result of the ten sittings held by us at Naples, November 21st-
December 15th, 1908, —being the ten seances attended by me, —
have to record my absolute conviction of the reality of at least
some of the phenomena ; and the conviction, amounting in my
own mind to complete certainty, that the results witnessed by
us were not due to fraud or trickery on the part of Eusapia. It
would be impossible to impart this feeling of certainty to others,
since that could only be obtained by a series of personal sittings
and the critic must depend for his conviction upon our record of
the seances, —as we have had hitherto to depend upon the records of
others. This is a very different thing from attending the seances
oneself. Just as one can only gain a correct idea of a fraudulent
spiritualistic seance by attending it in person, so, I think, can one
only reach a defnrite conclusion in favour of the phenomena by
attending genuine seances. The curious fact recorded by Mr.
Feilding that the incidents seemed to roll off our minds and
that we lapsed back into scepticism on each occasion until we had
held four or five seances, was noticed by all of us ; and it is only
when one is controlling the medium oneself, and when one has
absolute confidence in the controllers on the other side, that one
reaches that state of complete conviction which it would be impos-
sible to reach in any other manner.
One or two of the phenomena occurred under what I was
forced to regard as ideal conditions of control. The touches during
the latter part of Seance VI. were among these, when I was
holding the medium's left hand in her lap, and controlling practically
the whole of her body, while Mr. Baggally was controlling the
right hand on the table, and these were the cases that con-
vinced me finally and conclusively that genuine phenomena occurred,
though I could see no definite reason for refusing credence to many
of the phenomena of the previous seances. Still, there is a differ-
ence between intellectual and emotional conviction, and, whereas
556 E. Feilcling, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
the first of these states had been reached by the end of the second
seance, the second did not result until the sixth seance, as I have
said. Never were the two degrees more clearly marked than on this
occasion in my own mind ; and it is probable that the second
of the two stages will only be reached by the majority when
psychical science assumes a more definitely experimental form.
Thus, on several occasions, I verified my own control and found
it perfect ; I also verified the control of my colleague. I then
stretched my disengaged hand out towards the curtain, saying,
" Now, if I am touched under these conditions, I shall consider
the phenomenon definitely and finally proved." On several such
occasions, I did receive touches apparently of hands, and I was
consequently forced to the conclusion that these phenomena were
absolutely genuine, and not the results of fraud on the part of
Eusapia.
H. C, June 1909.
Final Note by W. W. Baggally.
On reading through the shorthand notes I find that 470 phenomena
are recorded as having taken |place during the course of the eleven
seances.
Of these phenomena
305 took place when members of the S.P.R. Committee
controlled
144 took place when a non-member and a member of the
S.P.R. Committee controlled
21 took place when two non-members controlled;
470.
I have classed as phenomena in connection with the seance table,
the complete levitations only, excluding the raps on it and its tilts and
rockings, as, although some of these occurred under extremely good
evidential conditions, the majority were non-evidential. At some of
the seances the phenomena succeeded each other so rapidly that it
was not possible to record them all, and consequently their number
is largely understated.
The 470 phenomena divide themselves into the following classes
LIX.] Sittings ivith Eusapia : Conclusions. 557
Classification of Phenomena.
Complete levitations of seance table,
Bulgings and movements of curtains,
1
Occasions on which bulges of med-
ium's dress occurred, -
Movements of objects within the
cabinet, -
Movements of objects (other than
seance table) outside the cabinet,
Objects brought out of the cabinet, -
Plucking of the guitar string, -
2 Occasions on which sounds were
heard in the cabinet (including
sounds on tambourine, guitar,
etc.), ------
2 Occasions on which sounds were
heard outside the cabinet, such
as knocks and scrapings on door,
raps on backs of chairs, etc.,
Loud sounds on seance table, syn-
chronising with movements of
medium's head or foot,
Touches by some object (hand ?)
through curtain,
Touches by some object (hand ?)
outside the cabinet, -
Occasions on which touches by some
object (hand?) were felt inside
the cabinet, -
-
Grasps and touches by a tangible hand
through curtain,
Grasps and touches by a tangible hand
(not visible) outside the cabinet,
Hands seen which issued from and
retired into the cabinet,
Objects seen of an indefinable nature
which issued from and retired
into the cabinet, - - -
-
Objects seen of an indefinable nature
in the cabinet, - - - •
Objects seen resembling heads which
issued from and retired into the
cabinet, -
Lights seen in the cabinet, on the
curtain, and on medium's lap, -
Untying of knots, - -
-
Occasions on which currents of air
issued from medium's head,
Control by
2 Members
of S.P.R.
Committee.
Control by
1 Member
of S.P.R.
Committee
and 1 Non-
member.
Control by
2 Non-
members.
Totals.
34 8 3 45
59 32 2 93
4 2
a
<>
28 4 2 34
41
o
.1
7
t
^l
o±
5 8 1 14
1 1
14 7
Ol
_ 1
6 8 14
7
7
20
a
0 o 28
O 1 1
1 44
— 1 1
19 7 26
13 22 35
3 2 — 5
16 9 3 28
1
— — 1
5 1 6
5 2 7
1 1
2 2
305 144 21 470
1
These do not give the actual number ol bulges out tne occasions uu nmu,
they occurred. Several bulges in succession are put down as one phenomenon.
2
The actual number of sounds is not given but the occasions on which they
were heard. A series of thumps on the tambourine struck in succession are
put down as one phenomenon, etc.
558 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
For the strict purposes of the S.P.R. investigation, perhaps only
the phenomena which occurred when the members of the Committee
alone controlled should be taken into account. At the time that
these took place (except on the occasion when a current of
air issued from Eusapia's head) the medium sat outside the cabinet
with her back to the curtains, and a member of the S.P.R. Com-
mittee sat on each side of her controlling her hands and feet.
These 305 phenomena may be explained by one of four hypotheses :
(1) That they were all fraudulent.
(2) That they were all genuine.
(3) That some were genuine and the others fraudulent.
(4) That some were genuine and the others not proved to be
either genuine or fraudulent.
I proceed to consider these hypotheses in their order: (1) If all
the phenomena were fraudulent they must have been produced
either by the liberation of one of Eusapia's hands or feet,
after she had carried out a substitution ;
or, when she was not able
to resort to this method, owing to her hands or feet being too far
apart, by the removal of one of her hands or feet from the hand or
foot of the controller (he, after such a removal, continuing under
the impression that he still felt her hand or foot in contact with
his own), or by the use of her head or other part of her body,
or some mechanism concealed about her person, or by the help of
an accomplice.
Now it is a remarkable fact that (excluding the three occasions
on which substitutions of hands took place, which were followed by no
phenomena. 1
Eusapia was not detected resorting to any fraudulent
methods during the production of any of the 305 phenomena. 2
I cannot accept the theory that the members of the Committee
were suffering from a collective hallucination. The fact that they
were able to verify that the objects which they saw brought out
of the cabinet remained outside at the termination of the sit-
tings is sufficient to disprove it. Taking into consideration the
manner of the control, that no mechanism was found on the
medium's person, that no accomplice was present, and also that
I
I do not include among the 470 phenomena the occasion when Eusapia
made a substitution of hands and then brought the curtain forward and placed
it on the table (see p. 383), because, in the view of F. and C, this incident
did not purport to be supernormal.
- The non-detection of fraud also applies to all the other phenomena of the
eleven seances which are not included in the above 305.
LIX.] Sittings %vith Eusapia : Conclusions. 559
the three S.P.R. investigators were men who had been accustomed
for years to the investigation of so-called physical phenomena of
every variety, and who had detected fraud after fraud, I find it
impossible to believe that Eusapia could have been able to practise
trickery constantly during the many hours that the seances lasted
and remain undetected.
(2) As regards the second hypothesis, "that all the phenomena
were genuine," I cannot positively assert that this is correct.
The chances of occasional mal-observation on the part of the
investigators should not be excluded. Eusapia was detected practis-
ing the trick of substitution on three occasions ; it is therefore
possible that she may have been able unobserved to liberate one
of her hands or feet on other occasions, and by this means
to produce fraudulently some of the phenomena ; but neither my
colleagues nor I had proof that she resorted to fraud in the pro-
duction of any one of the phenomena.
(3) Regarding the third hypothesis, " that some of the phenomena
were genuine and the others fraudulent," the second part of this
is negatived by the remark just made ; it only then remains to
consider the first part "that some of the phenomena were genuine."
On this point I feel that I can speak with assurance, though
I am aware of the difficulty of imparting to a critic, by a mere
description, the same conviction of the supernormal character of the
particular phenomena in question as I gained from personal obser-
vation. One cannot easily accept as genuine phenomena which
appear to contravene the known laws of Nature, and before doing
so, one must be assured that by no possibility could they have
been produced by normal means. A knowledge of the conjuring
art is obviously of great use in enabling an investigator to judge
whether a medium is practising fraud or not, and two members of
the S.P.R. Committee possessed this knowledge. I have already
mentioned the only normal methods which under the circumstances
Eusapia, in my opinion, could have used for the fraudulent pro-
duction of the phenomena, viz., the unobserved liberation and use
of one of her hands or feet, the unobserved use of her head or
other part of her body, or of some mechanism concealed about her
person. The help of a confederate need not be considered, as the
seances took place in our own room with locked doors. 1
1
It has been suggested to me that possibly M., the stenographer, assisted
the medium as a confederate. To this suggestion I would reply that M. is a
gentleman whose services F. engaged without previously informing Eusapia that
560 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
If certain phenomena take place when both hands of the
medium are distinctly seen, above, or quietly resting on, the seance
table, or both hands are clearly seen when being held by the con-
trollers, and at the same time her body is in view down to her
feet, while the controllers are assured, by tactile examination or by
their sense of sight, that no mechanism is being brought into play,
and when it is certain that there is no accomplice ; if certain
phenomena, I say, take place under the above conditions, which
seem to exclude all conceivable normal means of producing the pheno-
mena, there is then a strong presumption that they are produced
supernormally, and it was the phenomena which occurred under
these strictly test conditions that first convinced me of this. I will
now give a few examples of such phenomena.
I have already (in my note to Seance VII.) recounted in
detail the remarkable movement of Eusapia's dress. This took
place at the beginning of the seventh seance, in the strongest
light (unshaded) that we used from the time that I joined in the
investigation, when the medium's hands were resting on the seance
table in full view of all the members of the S.P.R. Committee,
when her whole body was seen (I stood quite close to Eusapia
intently watching her), and when her two feet were securely held
by F. and C, there being no possibility of a substitution of feet
nor the use of any mechanism nor attachment, as the medium
showed us, at the time, that her two feet were separately held and
that no mechanism was concealed under her dress. F. felt with his
hand several times, and found no attachment.
Another phenomenon which greatly impressed me was the bulging
of the curtain after the conclusion of the sixth seance at about 2 a.m. 1
a stenographer would be present at the seances, and that he had never met the
medium before. During the whole time that the seances at which I was
present, lasted, M.'s face was lit by the lamp which he used for the purpose of
taking the notes. His face was clearly visible to the controllers, and therefore
his position in the seance room was never lost sight of. The table at which
he sat was several feet away from the end of the seance table farthest away
from the medium. He never moved from his table except when he was asked
to come near Eusapia the better to witness a few of the phenomena.
As regards the possibility of a confederate gaining access into the cabinet
by a trap door, I may say that I examined the interior of the cabinet and
found that the floor was made of tiles closely cemented together. The walls
were at right angles to each other ; one consisting of thick masonry gave on
to the street, the other of thin masonry, brick or plaster, separated the stance
room from my bedroom. There was no trap door.
1
See C.'s note to Stance VI.
lix.] Sittings with Eusapia: Conclusions. 561
The light had been raised to No. 1 light. Eusapia released both
her hands from control and placed them on the table. They were
perfectly visible to all of us. Both her feet were under control. I
noticed that the curtain, which was on the medium's right, but not
in contact Math any part of her body, made a slight movement. I
immediately realised that if the curtain bulged out at that time
there could be no possibility of her being able to produce
the movement by normal means without detection, as owing to
the good light and to my position, I could distinctly see at the
same moment her head, her two hands, her body down to her
feet, and the curtain which was close to me and not touching her.
A very short time after this thought crossed my mind, and while
I was intently watching Eusapia, who did not move, the curtain
bulged strongly out, as if pressed from within the cabinet by a
balloon. The bulge was about a foot and a half from the medium's
head and on a level with it. Eusapia was examined shortly after-
wards, at this seance, and no mechanism was found concealed about
her body.
There was a curious parallelism between the bulges of Eusapia's
dress and those of the curtains. Those that I saw were all globular
in form and they did not show themselves close to the ground. 1
The remarkable nature of these bulges should be kept in mind.
When they were felt by the hand of a sitter they offered no resist-
ance, but gave the impression of being caused by a current of air
blown from behind the curtain. They were never pointed or irregular
in form, as would have been the case had they been brought about
by a thread attached to the curtain or by a hand or foot pushing
the curtain forward. The bulges of the curtains were sometimes on
a level with Eusapia's head and sometimes higher or loAver. Her
head was, as I have said, visible when the bulges took place.
A notable phenomenon of a different character was one that was
witnessed at 1.15 a.m. after the termination of Seance XL when Mrs. H.
had ceased to control. This lady retained her seat on the left of the
medium and I retained mine on her right. The other persons who had
been present at the seance (with the exception of the stenographer, who
remained seated at his table) had retired into C.'s room. They had
left the door wide open so that the seance room was now not only
lit by Light 1 (the strongest light used at the seances), but also by
1
As regards the movement of Eusapia's dress, to which I have referred, the
bulges occurred before the lower edge of her dress began to creep along the
floor in the manner described in my note to Stance VII.
2N
562 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
the light from the adjoining room which was full on. Eusapia con-
tinued in a state of semi-trance, her elbows on the table, her
hands raised. She tightly closed the fist of the left hand, as if by
nervous tension, and made three motions with it towards the closed
door which was behind my back (I was seated between the medium
and the door and had a full view of her hands and the right side
of her body from her head to her feet), whereupon three loud raps
were heard on the door. After this she made several gestures with
her hand, and each time raps were heard on the door, finishing with
four large gestures followed by four loud raps. These raps were
heard by Mrs. H. and myself. They distinctly came from the door
behind me and not from where Eusapia sat in front of me. The
medium then held my right hand in her right and scratched the
back of my right hand with the finger nails of her left and, syn-
chronously, a rasping sound was heard on the door. The distance
between the medium's hand and the door when she made the gestures
and scratched my hand was about 3h feet, and the distance between
her feet and the door about 3 feet. I was much impressed by
these phenomena as they were taking place, and, without leaving
my seat, called F. from the other room. His note, in the steno-
graphic report, is as follows :
"B. called me in from the other room. I asked medium to
repeat raps. It seemed as though the force were expended. She
made three or four gestures and no raps followed. Then she made
a final gesture and a loud rap followed. It appeared to me dis-
tinctly to come from the door beside which I was standing. Her
feet were at least three feet from the door, and her hand, as she
made the gesture, did not approach within six inches of it. There
was a clear space between the whole of the medium and the door."
When F. came into the seance room Eusapia did not succeed in
obtaining a rap until she brought her hand within a distance of
six inches from the door, whereas when I first heard the raps her
hand was about 3| feet from it. F. placed himself between the
medium and the door in a similar position to my own, and was thus
able to confirm the fact, which I have stated, that Eusapia's hands
could be clearly seen, in the excellent light, that the whole of her
right side was in view down to her feet, and that the loud rap that
he heard, like those that I heard, came distinctly from the door
and not from where the medium sat.
The apparently supernormal agency was not only able to produce
percussive and other sounds at a distance from Eusapia's body
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Conclusions. 563
and to move comparatively light objects, such as her dress or the
curtains of the cabinet, but could also affect heavy objects, as was
shown by many of the complete levitations of the seance table
which occurred when one of my colleagues of the S.P.R. Committee
and I controlled.
I would refer the reader to the complete levitations which took
place during Seance IX. at 10.14, 10.16, and 10.17 p.m. The
strongest Light, No. 1, was then on ; the medium's hands were
plainly visible in such a position that she could not make use of
them for raising the table, and at the same time a space was seen
by C. and myself between the table legs and the dress of the
medium on either side of her. As an additional precaution I had
my right hand across her two knees, which remained motionless
during the levitations. All the above phenomena occurred under
these stringent test conditions. I am therefore convinced that
Eusapia did not (for their production) make use of her hands, or
her feet, or any part of her body ; neither did she resort to any
mechanical means, nor was she assisted by a confederate, and I am
compelled to ascribe these phenomena to some supernormal cause.
So far I have only treated of phenomena which were due to
the action of some force of a telekinetic nature. My mind did
not, a priori, reject the possibility of its existence owing to the
fact of its neAvness to me, but that this force should be able to
manifest itself as tangible matter and assume an organic form like
a hand, capable of grasping, was a phenomenon of such a complex
nature that I was not able to give it acceptance with equal ease.
The phenomena, however, that I am about to describe, although
lacking in one of the specific test conditions (inasmuch as the
lower part of the medium's body was not in view at the time of
their occurrence), offered me strong evidence that this force did
materialise itself, to use a spiritualistic term, and did assume the
form of a hand.
During the time that I controlled Eusapia, at the seances, I was
certain that the hand that I had in contact with mine was her
right hand (or her left hand as the case might be), as I continually
assured myself of the fact by feeling the relative position of her
thumb and palm, and also that it was a living hand by the
responses that it gave to my pressure. The controller who sat on
the other side of the medium was equally certain that the hand
that he had in contact with his own was her other hand, for the
same reasons. I had, therefore, the assurance that it was not
564 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
cne of Eusapia's hands which issued from the cabinet and occasion-
ally grasped me. This assurance was greatly increased at the
eleventh seance at 12.51-12.54 a.m., as at the moment that I felt
the squeezes and grasps I could see both the medium's hands on the
seance table ; and especially so at 1 a.m., when I alone controlled,
and not only saw both Eusapia's hands, but held them separately
by her thumbs in both my hands, which I kept apart on the
seance table; and subsequently at 1.3 a.m., when I held both her
thumbs in my right hand, the foot control being verified by me
at the time. I cannot do better than transcribe part of the
stenographer's notes in order to give a succinct account of these
phenomena.
Seance XL
,, 12.51 a.m. B. My left hand is squeezed several times.
,, B. Now I am grasped by the arm.
,, I can see both medium's hands on the table.
,, 12.54 a.m. B. I am continuously being touched.
I can always see medium's hands.
,, 1 a.m. B. This hand has again come out, and is playing
with me now.
,, B. I have got both her hands now.
,, B. Yes, it has touched me again.
,, It is an absolute proof to me that this hand
is not the hand of the medium. I have got
both her thumbs. I am holding her right
hand in my left hand, my right hand is on
the left side of the table holding her left.
,, B. This hand is still playing about with me.
,, F. B.'s left hand is lying on the corner of the
table, and a hand from inside the curtain plays
with it. B. is now holding the two thumbs
of the medium in his right hand visibly
to me.
,, 1.3 a.m. B. Oh, it is touching me again.
,, B. I have verified the foot control.
It will be noted that F., as well as myself, was able to see that at
1.3 a.m. I was holding the two thumbs of Eusapia in my right hand. 1
1
1 had ceased controlling, with my left hand, in order that the alleged spirit
hand of my father should be better able to grasp it. Had I received a grasp
in a certain manner it would have been to me a test of identity. The grasps
that I received failed to give the required test.
LIX.] Sittings with Eusapia : Conclusions. 565
It is inconceivable that Eusapia should have been able to squeeze
my hand and grasp my arm in this manner with one of her feet,
even if she had one free, for the squeezes and grasps were clearly
those of a hand. Neither could she have lifted her foot to the
height of my hand and arm without a contortion of her body,
which would have been immediately seen, whereas she sat quietly on
her chair in a natural position. I am therefore convinced that it was
neither Eusapia's hand nor her foot that squeezed and grasped me, and
as I am positive that it was not the hand nor foot of any one of the
sitters, I am driven to the conclusion (preposterous though it appears
to me) that the supernormal force, which had given me conclusive
evidence of its existence through the phenomena previously described,
was able to produce the effects of tangible matter and assume the
form of a hand. 1
It is not, however, the above phenomena of
touches and grasps that I would bring forward as crucial evidence
for the existence of a supernormal force, as some of the test con-
ditions which I have specified were lacking in these cases. I would
rather depend on the phenomena which took place in light when
the medium's hands were distinctly seen simultaneously with her
whole body down to her feet.
I refer here only to phenomena which occurred while I was person-
ally controlling. The reader will find in the Report others of equal
evidential value, during the occurrence of which the same crucial
test conditions prevailed, when F. and C. controlled.
I am compelled to accept as true the first part of the third hypo-
thesis, "that some of the phenomena were genuine" (the second
part I have already dealt with) ; it follows that the fourth hypothesis,
"that some of the phenomena were genuine and the others not
proved to be either genuine or fraudulent," is that which represents
my attitude.
In previous investigations with other so-called physical mediums, I
had formed the opinion that, as I had detected them resorting to fraud
1
The conditions under which I felt grasps and touches on other occasions at
these seances than those referred to above offered me also strong evidence that
the touches and grasps were independent of the physical organism of Eusapia.
The numerous touches on my back between 12.11 and 12.20 in Seance X. occurred
under what were to me excellent test conditions, as at the very time that I
was feeling them I was constantly passing my left hand all up her left arm to
her shoulder and down her left leg to her foot, thus verifying that I had
undoubted control of her left hand and foot with my right hand and foot, and
that the touches were not produced by her head. F. had control of her right
hand and foot. See my note to that seance.
•566 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Garrington. [part
in the majority of their phenomena, the other phenomena in which I
did not detect fraud were presumably also fraudulent. As regards
Eusapia's phenomena at these seances, my opinion is that, as some
of the phenomena appear to me to be undoubtedly genuine, others
in which I did not detect fraud were (considering the manner and
strictness of the control and the amount of light in the seance room)
also genuine. I do not maintain this of all the phenomena, as the
chances of occasional mal-observation on our part, at such rare times
as when darkness prevailed or when the controllers were changing
their seats, cannot be excluded. At the same time I must repeat that
Eusapia was not detected in fraud in any one of the 470 phenomena
that took place at the eleven seances.
My general opinion of these phenomena is that they were due
to some supernormal force resident in the organism of Eusapia,
though some few of them would appear to point to the action of an
independent energy.
Whatever explanation is advanced can only be a theoretical
one. It is not theories that are required at this stage of the investi-
gation of this medium, (who so far has only been examined by one
English and a few foreign eminent men of science), but the recognition
by the scientific world at large of the occurrence of supernormal
phenomena. It is greatly to be regretted, in view of the reports of
the eminent scientific men just referred to, that British men of
science do not take the opportunity of an investigation into Eusapia
Palladino's mediumship,—an opportunity which, if not taken soon,
may, in nature's course, be lost for ever.
W. W. B., 6th March, 1909.
Final Note by E. Feilding.
I have but little to add to the notes of my colleagues and
to the Report, the length of which must have exhausted the
attention of the most earnest student of the subject with which
it deals. I propose to allow myself only a few words as to
the character of the Report itself.
In preparing it for press I have speculated much as to what
measure of success we have attained towards achieving the
modest object we have had in view, namely, to present to
readers who have never assisted at seances of the kind described
Lix.] Sittings ivith jEusapia : Conclusions. 567
a complete record of the conditions which prevailed, and an
accurate account of the occurrences, so that they might them-
selves come to a conclusion as to whether these occurrences
were due to conjuring, or to a display of telekinetic force.
Our intention at the outset was not to obtrude our own views,
but to let the facts speak for themselves.
In both of these respects our intention has been largely
modified in practice. There is no question but that the short-
hand reports give in most cases an inadequate account of
the proceedings by constantly understating the number of the
phenomena and insufficiently recording the adequacy of the
control which prevailed, with the result that a critical reader,
loth to accept the hypothesis of a supernormal agency having
been at work, will find the proportion of phenomena which
he is able to dismiss as inconclusive, by reason of the omission
from the report of some important detail, far larger than we
ourselves, from our contemporary observation, could so dismiss.
It was perhaps because we so often found, when reading
the reports through the day after the seance, that we had
fallen thus far short of our ideal in the way of reporting, and
had, in a sense, done the phenomena an injustice, that we
were forced from our proposed colourless attitude into one of
almost proselytizing affirmation. The result is that the Report
is far more positive in its conclusions and dominated by a far
more personal note than, for example, the admirably balanced
report recently issued by the Institut Giniral Psychologique
of Paris, a report which, though dealing with experiments
lasting through three years and marked by more remark-
able incidents than any in our own experience, is nevertheless
drawn up with such a wealth of scientific caution and reserve
as almost to leave a reader in doubt as to the character of its
own conclusions.
It has constantly, and in my opinion most absurdly, been
said that no one is so easy to deceive as a man of science.
I think it would be nearer the mark to say that if in fact
there be such a thing as a supernormal physical force, no one
is so easily converted to a belief in it as a conjuror. The
savant, steeped in his experience of the normal forces of nature,
is constitutionally averse from the conception of an apparently
bizarre departure from them. Aware of his own lack of know-
568 E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and H. Carrington. [part
ledge of the possibilities of mere legerdemain, he naturally prefers
to suspect himself of having been the sport of some undiscovered
form of deception rather than to remodel his philosophy. The
conjuror, on the other hand, has the experience, not only of the
possibilities, but also of the limitations of his own art, and
having no particular philosophy beyond that of an ordinary
layman regarding the forces of nature, has no special difficulty
in remodelling it, if necessary, when confronted with a series
of events which he knows his art is incapable of explaining.
My colleagues, then, having come to the deliberate opinion
that a large proportion of the manifestations of which we were
the witnesses in Naples were clearly beyond the possibilities
of any conceivable form of conjuring, entertain no difficulty in
saying so in precise terms, and so far as my own position as
a layman entitles me to it, I associate myself entirely with
their conclusions without apology for our seeming lack of scien-
tific caution.
I permit myself to finish with a quotation from a paper
which I read before the Society when introducing to it the
subject of this Eeport.
" While I have convinced myself of the reality of these
phenomena and of the existence of some force not yet generally
recognised which is able to impress itself on matter, and to
simulate or create the appearance of matter, I refrain for the
present from speculating upon its nature. Yet it is just in
this speculation that the whole interest of the subject lies.
The force, if we are driven, as I am confident we are, to pre-
suppose one other than mere conjuring, must either reside in
the medium herself and be of the nature of an extension of
human faculty beyond what is generally recognised ; or must
be a force having its origin in something apparently intelligent
and external to her, operating either directly from itself, or
indirectly through or in conjunction with some special attribute
of her organism. The phenomena then,—in themselves pre-
posterous, futile, and lacking in any quality of the smallest
ethical, religious, or spiritual value, —are nevertheless sympto-
matic of something which, put at its lowest by choosing the
first hypothesis, must, as it filters gradually into our common
knowledge, most profoundly modify the whole of our philosophy
of human faculty ; but which, if that hypothesis is found
LIX.] Sittings ivith Eusapia : Conclusions. 569
insufficient, may ultimately be judged to require an interpre-
tation involving not only that modification, but a still wider
one, namely, our knowledge of the relations between mankind
and an intelligent sphere external to it. Although one may
approach the investigation of the phenomena themselves in a
light, shall I say, even a flippant spirit,—(I sometimes think
that in this way alone one can preserve one's mental balance
in dealing with this kind of subject), —one must regard them
as the playthings of the agency which they reveal, and the
more perfect revelation of that agency, whatever it may be,
through the study of them, is surely a task as worthy of the
most earnest consideration as any problem with which modern
science is concerned. If our report, by reason of its form and
detail, is found to do something towards supplying a further
evidential basis for, and therefore directing the attention of
men of science in this country towards, the far more important
and elaborate published investigations of many of our more
eminent predecessors, and of inducing them to take a part in
the research, I shall feel that it has amply served its purpose."
570 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
SUPPLEMENT.
M. COURTIER'S REPORT ON THE EXPERIMENTS WITH
EUSAPIA PALLADINO AT THE PARIS " INSTITUT
GENERAL PSYCHOLOGIQUE " AND SOME COMMENTS
THEREON.1
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo.
This long expected, very interesting and copiously illustrated Report
embodies the results of forty-three sittings in all: thirteen in 1905,
sixteen in 1906 and fourteen in 1907-1908. Prior to the first series
Messrs. Courtier (" Chef des services du Secretariat general " of the
Institute) and Yourievitch (Secretary General) had in May, 1905,
attended eight seances with Eusapia Palladino in Naples, which
says M. Courtier, "are among the strongest we have ever had"
(p. 418). Immediately afterwards, a "General plan of research" was
drawn up by the two investigators. It embraced " observation,
control and registering of the phenomena," "physical researches" and
" psycho-physiological researches." It was in fact a very exhaustive
programme, and the investigators have honestly endeavoured to
carry it out in every particular, whether with uniform success is
another question.
The Parisian seances (held partly at M. Courtier's, in 1905,
partly in the library of the Institute, and finally in M. Yourievitch's
house) were attended by many persons of scientific eminence ; some
names will be given below. The general conditions of the sittings
were the usual " Eusapian " conditions, which are too well known
(it may be supposed) to readers of the Proceedings to need repetition
—a special feature being, however, the use of self-registering
instruments of various descriptions, these instruments being placed
in an adjoining room and communicated with by means of electric
leads and air-tubes passing through the wall.
1
Bulletin de Vlnstitut Giniral Psychologique, No. 5-6 (Novembre-Decembre,
1908).
LIX.] Review. 571
At all the sittings held in Paris a stenographer was present who
noted down every word said by the sitters and by the medium.
Other appliances were also used to make the record of the investi-
gation as complete as possible.
In the course of the experiments different systems of light were
employed, the most perfect being as follows : a group of six electric
lamps was placed in a wooden reflector closed below ; it was then
raised to about thirty centimetres from the ceiling ; the room was
therefore lit up with reflected light, whose intensity could be
modified at will. At another series of sittings a gas-burner sur-
rounded with movable wooden shutters was in use, and at another
still an oil-lamp, placed in another room.
After these preliminary details the Report proceeds (Part I.) to
the phenomena themselves, every class of them being illustrated with
excerpts from the original stenographic records.
It first cites instances of blows, and scratchings on or in the
table, and remarks that these different sounds generally occurred
in imitation of corresponding movements made by Eusapia and
sometimes by the sitters. Exact localisation of sounds is admittedly
very difficult; but it must be remarked that in some cases simul-
taneously with the noises the table was felt to vibrate under the
sitter's hands (pp. 434-436).
Then come movements and tiltings of the table ; then full
levitations of the same. This last category is the most important.
In many instances the conditions under which the levitations
occurred seem to have been very good, and one need not wonder
that this particular phenomenon has apparently dealt a serious
blow to the scepticism of such a savant as M. dArsonval, not to
mention M. Courtier himself, and others. I will give a few instances :
" (1905-IV-3.) Eusapia serre ses poings et les tend vers la table;
elle remet ses mains sur la table, puis les leve. La table se souleve
des quatre pieds. L'appareil enregistreur a indique le soulevement
de la table. M. dArsonval et M. Yourievitch (qui controlent a
gauche et a droite) declarent que les pieds et les genoux d'Eusapia
n'ont pas bouge "
(p. 437).
" (1905-X-4-5) 9 h. 58. La table est soulevee des quatre pieds
a environ 30 centimetres du sol et elle reste en Pair sept secondes.
Eusapia n'avait qu'une main sur la table ; la bougie placee sous la
table permettait le controle des genoux qui n'ont pas bouge."
" 10 h. La table est soulevee des quatre pieds a une hauteur
d'environ 25 centimetres et reste en l'air quatre secondes, M. Curie
572 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
touchant seul la table, la main d'Eusapia etant sur la sienne. Eusapia
a geint et a paru faire un grand effort. Le controle etait excellent
grace a la bougie placee sous la table "
(pp. 437-438).
" (1906-IV-3). La table se leve de deux, puis des quatre pieds ;
une main d'Eusapia est au-dessus de la table et son autre main sur
la main de M. Curie. Les pieds d'Eusapia sont attaches aux pieds
de la chaise sur laquelle elle est assise. Controleurs a gauche M.
Curie, a droite M. Fielding [Feilding] "
(p. 438).
Another time the table is levitated when an additional weight of
ten kilogrammes has been placed upon it. Messrs. Ballet and
d'Arsonval were controlling " absolutely " Eusapia's feet and knees
(besides the hands). The table was also once levitated, no one
(apparently) touching it and one of the sitters holding the medium's
feet under it. Levitations were also obtained when two of the
table-legs (those nearest the medium) were protected with wooden
covers (" jambieres ") joined by a cross-bar above the medium's
knees (pp. 438, 445).
These levitations were registered in a manner which left no
doubt whatever as to their objective character. Each leg separately
had been provided with a contact key which completed an electric
circuit when the leg ivas off the ground. Each of these circuits
operated a Desprez indicator writing on a revolving drum. If then any
leg experienced a pressure from below—either from the floor or from
the medium's foot—the corresponding index would not work. So
when all four scribers worked together it was certain that the legs
were really off the ground and not otherwise supported by or resting
on anything else.
The investigators also tried to ascertain what became of the
natural weight of the table during these "levitations." It was
finally proved that in each and every case everything took place
" as if the fulcrum of the force were in the subject himself"—and
therefore in perfect accordance with orthodox mechanics (p. 441).
This, says the Report, is one of the most important results arrived
at during the sittings (p. 441).
Apparent decrease in Eusapia's weight was also observed and
automatically registered, she being seated upon a chair placed on a
" Marey balance," and under control. Alteration of weight even to
a considerable extent was also proved in the case of a small table
when moved and raised into the air seemingly without contact.
A small table with a movable upper surface being placed upon the
seance-table and Eusapia having brought her head close to it, the
LIX.] Review. 573
surface was twice lifted up. The second time Madame Curie held
her hand between the small table and the medium's head (p. 447).
The Report next mentions briefly movements and bulgings of the
curtain and of the medium's dress (the latter circumstance greatly
impressed M. Curie) ; then various cases of movements of objects in
the cabinet. A notable instance was the bringing upon the seance-
table of a basin full of clay weighing seven kilogrammes. Some
objects were broken, for instance, a wooden lath and an India-
rubber tube (pp. 447-471).
The peregrinations of another small wooden table ("gueridon")
(also graphically registered through a specially devised apparatus)
deserve more attention from the evidential point of view. Here
is one good instance
" (1906-IV-10). "Le gueridon place a la gauche d'Eusapia, a
50 centimetres environ de sa chaise, est completement souleve alors
que les pieds d'Eusapia sont attaches aux pieds de sa chaise par
des lacets et que ses poignets sont attaches aux poignets des
controleurs. Arrive dans son ascension a la hauteur des epaules de
M. Curie il est retourne les pieds en l'air, puis pose plateau contre
plateau sur la table. Le mouvement n'a pas ete rapide, mais comme
attentivement guide" (pp. 472-473).
Apparent alterations of weight were also observed with this
" gueridon."
With such " phenomena " as " touches " and the appearance of
hands and " black limbs," " comme des silhouettes d'ombres chinoises
(pp. 473-475, 478, 479) the Report deals very briefly. An instance
is given of a touch through the curtain at a considerable height
above the medium's head and two cases of apparently simultaneous
touches.
The Report then describes various luminous phenomena witnessed.
Bluish and phosphorescent lights were observed to appear on Eusapia's
forehead and also on the curtain. When Eusapia was lying in the
cabinet upon a "chaise longue" to which she had been tied from
head to foot, M. Courtier, who sat inside the cabinet, observed on
two different occasions cloudy lights, "as if phosphorescent or white,"
wandering over the medium's body. They were also noticed at the
opening of the curtain by the other sitters.
Sparks and luminous points above the medium's head are also
recorded. The most interesting episode is described as follows :
" (1907-X-10-12). . . . Eusapia demande qu'on aille chercher la
machine electrique et que Ton en tire trois etincelles. M. Courtier
574 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
va dans la piece voisine prendre la machine electrique et se placant
en face d'Eusapia, environ a 2 metres, en tire trois etincelles. On
voit successivement a la hauteur de la tete d'Eusapia trois petits
points lumineux imitant les etincelles electriques et Ton entend en
meme temps le petit bruit sec de l'etincelle electrique. A la
seconde experience ces points lumineux sont beaucoup plus faibles,
et le bruit se produit quelques instants apres leur apparition au
lieu d'etre simultane" (p. 477).
M. Branly, in the course of the discussion of M. Courtier's
report, referred to this incident as " one of the most curious
experiments I have seen " (p. 558).
Part II. of the Report is devoted to a very short biography
of the medium and to various psycho-physiological and purely
physiological researches to which she was subjected. Here are the
two points most worthy of attention : though some incidents
during the sittings seemed to point to another conclusion (p. 487),
special experiments made on her (supposed) sensibility at a
distance gave negative results (p. 482), and in the course of some
experiments on her ctynamometric strength it was ascertained that
its fall was invariably instantaneous, thus reminding one of the fall
of the table after a " levitation "
(p. 483).
A few pages devoted to " Eusapia en seance " (pp. 484-490)
are particularly interesting. She seems to be in a genuine
" secondary state " during the sittings. The level of her hypnosis
appears, however, to be most variable. The hyperesthesia to which
her hands are subject will sometimes persist long after a sitting.
She seems to remember the incidents of a seance up to a certain
point only and then amnesia apparently sets in.
She maintains that the phenomena are produced by " la densita
della volonta di medio " and sometimes asks the sitters to concen-
trate their will on a certain phenomenon. The movements and
levitations of objects are accompanied on her part by strong
muscular contractions. Eusapia's own ideation seems to have a
considerable influence on the things which happen at the sittings.
A friendly attitude of the sitters is apparently a very important
condition for the success of the experiments.
The Report deals next with the " investigation of the physical
environment in the subject's proximity" (pp. 505-514).
The investigators tried to ascertain Eusapia's possible action on
physical instruments. The experiments made dealt chiefly with
mechanical force, heat, electricity and magnetism.
LIX.] Review. 575
Eusapia having been placed in front of a lever-balance and under
control, the index marks first one kilogramme-and-a-half, then three,
seven and ten. Part of her skirt was at her request placed on
the edge of the base of the balance.
Different experiments were made on the movement in good light
and without contact of various small weighing balances. The experi-
ment succeeded several times without any imposture—such as the
use of a hair or thread—being detected. It is, however, particularly
noteworthy that after one such instrument (a balance for weighing
cocoons) had been covered with lamp-black (so as to reveal the trace
of any contact) the medium was unable to affect this " pese-cocon
any more. (On this point see also further on.)
A glass was made to vibrate in full light, giving oft' "strong
sonorous waves," then fell down on the table and broke.
Observations made by three of the investigators tended to show
that the medium could discharge an electroscope without contact.
In other circumstances, however, electroscopes remained unaffected.
Experiments made to ascertain whether Eusapia's muscular efforts
were accompanied by abnormal thermal or magnetic phenomena led
to negative results, and chemical examination of the atmosphere in
the medium's proximity during the seances revealed nothing abnormal.
I pass on to the most attractive part of the Report—that entitled
"Critical Considerations" (pp. 514-546).
The attitude of men of science towards the problems in question
has undergone, says M. Courtier, a serious change. They have ceased
to look with contempt on those researches. On the contrary, they
regard them with serious and keen curiosity. But they have banished
from them the supernatural element and wish to investigate with
rigorous experimental methods. The time is not far away when the
same point of view will prevail in the public mind.
Before everything else—and in particular before the building up
of new hypotheses—it is, however, necessary to examine how far
the phenomena themselves may be considered authentic and the
conditions of control and observation adequate.
From this point of view many circumstances are unsatisfactory.
The light is generally poor, and is usually diminished gradually
as the seance is in progress, —which gives rise to new and various
sources of error. Moreover, the greater the darkness, —the more
the medium as a general rule complains of cutaneous hyperesthesia
and throws difficulties in the way of controlling. On this point
the Report says :
570 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
" En ce qui concerne les mains d'Eusapia, le controle n'est pleine-
ment satisfaisant que si Ton en serre le pouce et si la main ainsi
tenue repose sur le plateau de la table en bonne lumiere. Mais
souvent Eusapia place ses mains sur ses cuisses et le controle
devient deja moins satisfaisant, puisque ses mains cessent d'etre
entitlement visibles. . . . Lorsqu'on ne tient plus le pouce il est
difficile dans une obscurite relative de savoir nettement si Ton
touche la main droite ou la main gauche. Mais que dire du controle
quand Eusapia se plaignant d'hyperesthesie cutanee POSE SA main
sur la votre, en l'appuyant plus ou moins fortement ? . . . Pis
encore est le controle lorsque Eusapia ne fait plus que toucher
legerement la main du controleur qu'elle tapote " (p. 517).
Besides the hand the medium's neighbour has to look after her
knee and her foot. When his foot is upon the medium's and his
leg against hers the conditions of control may be considered
sufficient. But it often happens that Eusapia herself insists on being
allowed to put her foot upon the controller's :
" La surveillance est alors si precaire qu'un observateur demanda
un jour a defaire sa bottine pour mieux sentir le contact du pied
d'Eusapia" (p. 518).
She also objects —as a general rule at least—to certain " tests
being applied to her, which, though very effective, could not have
caused her any inconvenience—and this on pretences which are
obviously inadequate.
Since controlling the phenomena is one thing and observing another,
it would be preferable to have during the sittings some one standing
close to Eusapia without either holding her or taking part in the
" chain "
—merely for purposes of observation. To this, however, she
decidedly objects in most cases. 1
The result is that the controllers are in a perpetual state of division
of attention. Observation is, moreover, the more difficult as the
"phenomena" occur now in one place, now in another, generally
in an "instantaneous and fugitive fashion." If a phenomenon has long
been expected attention becomes worn out and sometimes slackens
in spite of energetic efforts.
In addition to this cause of distraction the sitters generally talk
during the seance, and are often expressly invited by raps to start
a general conversation. This naturally leads to their attention
becoming divided.
1
For an apparent exception, see Annates des Sciences PsycMques, No. 10,
1907, pp. 683, 687, 691, 692, 703.
XIX.] Review. 577
Then there is suggestibility to beware of;—one must be careful
not to affirm more than what was really perceived (with this point
S.P.R. members are of course particularly familiar). The elements
of emotion and excitement may also come into play now and then,
and vitiate observation and judgment most seriously.
" Combien on est loin des patientes experimentations de laboratoire
oil les conditions des phenomenes sont reglees et calculees a l'avance,
oil Ton n'observe qu'un seul fait a la fois, dans un etat d'attention
trancmille et silencieuse !
" (p. 520).
The report next deals with Eusapia's "supercheries" (pp. 521-540).
These are unfortunately very numerous. At one time, having failed
with the phe-cocon, after it had been covered with lamp-black (as
described above) she moves the leaf of a gum-tree up and down
by the aid of a hair. Another time she moves the scale of the
aforesaid " pese-cocon " in the same way.1
1
1 am not aware when hairs and threads were first found to play so
objectionable a part in E. P. 's performances, but similar observations appear
to have been very often made. So often indeed that some six years ago an
ingenious hypothesis was started according to which these supposed hairs or
threads were merely harmless " fluidic filaments" (Revue des Etudes Psychiques,
March, 1903, pp. 86-97). Quite recently such a hypothesis has been sanctioned
by no less an authority than Dr. Ochorowicz himself. In Annates des Sciences
Psychiques for the current year has appeared a series of articles by him, giving
an account of some experiments with a young Polish lady called Stanislawa
Tomczyk. Among other things this mediumistically gifted young person would
now and then "levitate" various small objects—which " levitations " were in
some cases photographed. A book-shaped calendar being thus privileged (the
medium holding her hands to the right and left of it), Dr. Ochorowicz noticed
at a certain moment "quite distinctly" "a black thread, not a very thick
•one, going from one of the medium's hands to the other; its right end, not
being stretched out, was hanging down under the medium's right hand in
the shape of an irregular spiral." At the same moment the medium began to
bring her hands down on the table, the calendar fell flat —and no thread could
be detected (Annates, March, 1909, p. 68). Subsequently examination of a
photograph showing an arrow "levitated" revealed "on the forefinger of the
medium's left hand a small line not corresponding to the natural fold of the
phalanx " which might be due to a tightened hair or thread pressing against
the skin ;
moreover, two of the fingers were suspiciously joined together as if
retaining the end of the thread (Annates, April, p. 100). Dr. Ochorowicz thinks,
however, that the thread in question was a "materialised" one (ibid, footnote),
and he sums up his "general impressions" as follows:
"It is possible medianically to create between the medium's hands a kind
of thread presenting during a few minutes a certain consistency which
decreases and disappears when his hands have been moved asunder. This
thread created by the medium's unconscious imagination seems to present a
20
578 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
In the course of an experiment with a manoraetric apparatus,
invented by M. Courtier, a little nail (which might well serve its
purpose) is found where no nail should have been, —that is, drops
(apparently) from Eusapia's left hand.
Substitution of the medium's hands was once very clearly noticed
at a sitting outside the Institute by M. Courtier. It would seem
that at this same seance the medium managed to liberate herself
from both her neighbours for a moment (p. 525).
In the course of the seances some photographs were taken. The
medium, however, objected to their being taken unexpectedly, on
the ground that this might injure her : and this injunction was
departed from in one case only when a partial levitation of the
table occurred in full darkness. The photograph this time revealed
nothing particular, one way or the other. Some other photographs
are, however, distinctly unfavourable to the medium's claims. They
were taken when the " gueridon " was being carried out of the
cabinet : they show it in an exactly similar position three times in
succession, and it is obvious that it is supported by the medium's
head. It is important to note that after Eusapia had seen the most
significant of the photographs in question, this small table was never
again moved out of the cabinet, though this had constantly occurred
before.
A little strip of cloth which was found one day on the floor of
the seance-room, was ascertained from details of internal construction
to correspond pretty closely (though, it is true, not completely) to
the " spirits' veil," whose presence in impressions of " materialised
hands " on clay and putty had been often noticed before. " Nous
l'enroulames sur nos doigts. Nous tenions un secret des empreintes
"
(p. 538).
case of objective material ideoplasty : a vivid desire to lift a small object
at a distance brings by association the idea of a thread which would answer
the purpose. This idea realises itself in a monoideio moment. In ordinary
life the siyht of a thread, that is certain vibrations of the ether, raise the
idea of a thread ; here by virtue of the law of reversibility the contrary
happens ; the idea of a thread leads up to the sight, the objective ghost of
a thread, that is to certain vibrations of the ether. ... Is it a thing
created from nothing? Is it the etheric body of a real thread? Is it idea
materialised—and with what matter ? Ether particles ? Atoms of the medium's
body? Of her dress? It is a mystery" [Annates, March 1909, pp. 69-70).
It is sad to think that with such boundless horizons opening before their
eyes most people will doubtless wickedly prefer the most prosaic explanation
of the incident !
LIX.] Review. 579
I pass over some other points of secondary or not decisive
importance.
It is of course quite possible (says the Report) that Eusapia's
powers are now on the wane. M. Courtier himself noticed from
year to year a gradual weakening of her powers. Professional
mediums would do wisely if they gave up their trade at a certain
age, but as most. of them are poor and are not used to any other,
they must needs persevere.
The Report then goes on to consider whether certain occurrences
do not after all present in themselves " some internal proof of
authenticity or fraud "
(pp. 540-544). A table weighing 7 kilogrammes
by itself, and with an additional weight of 10 kilogrammes, was in
1905 twice raised off the ground for several seconds. At another
sitting, in the same year, it was levitated again, when the legs
nearest the medium were protected with wooden sheaths. Messrs.
Courtier and Yourievitch tried to imitate this phenomenon now
with one hand, now with both, now with the hands and feet,
now with the feet and knees only. Some measure of success was
obtained, but the conditions at the sittings were different, the steno-
graphic record showing that when the levitation occurred, the
medium's feet and knees were " absolutely under control " and
there was no contact with the legs of the table; apart from this,
the latter remained in the air a good many seconds. Moreover, Messrs.
Courtier and Yourievitch are much stronger physically than Eusapia.
Then certain levitations which took place at the end of the seances
and with everybody standing up, have also to be accounted for. Some
reached as much as one metre, the medium's hands and feet being
" rigorously " controlled.
Some of the movements made by the "gueridon" also deserve
attention. Sometimes, when placed at the medium's left, about one
metre from her, it moved either towards her or away, in accordance
with Eusapia's gestures. In the former case we cannot perhaps
exclude altogether the possible action of a thread : but how about
the other kind of movement 1 A rod could not have been used
without detection.
At the sitting of April 6, 1906, Eusapia had—as already men-
tioned —allowed her feet to be attached to the legs of her chair
with strings. Her wrists had also been tied to those of Messrs.
Curie and Feilding. Under these conditions M. Courtier, who was
seated some distance behind M. Curie, distinctly saw the " gueridon
"
rise from the ground and could detect no hand touching it. The
580 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
little table then went up as high as M. Curie's shoulders, was turned
upside down and then gently placed in this position upon the central
table. None of the four investigators (M. Yourievitch besides those
mentioned) under whose eyes the " phenomenon " took place could
detect any suspicious movement on the medium's part (p. 543).
" Des faits aussi nets donnent matiere a reflechir," remarks the
Report a propos of this and similar incidents.
On the other hand, it notes the suspicious character of the
touches, of the movements of various objects in the cabinet and
of the appearances of hands. It thinks that the sparks may have
been due to " peculiar electrisation of Eusapia's body discharging
itself in the proximity of the other bodies."
These are the general conclusions arrived at
"(1) Les deplacements (avancements ou reculs) et les soulevements
(partiels ou complets) de certains objets pesants (tables, gueridons)
au voisinage d'Eusapia pendant les seances sont prouves par des
enregistrements.
" (2) Certains de ces mouvements semblent se produire au simple
contact des mains ou des vetements du sujet et meme sans contact.
" Pendant les soulevements complets de la table devant laquelle
il est assis ou des gueridons places a proximite de son corps, le
sujet contracte la plupart du temps puissamment ses muscles. Mais
on n'a pas constate une action directe de ses efforts sur les objets
ainsi souleves, semblable a celle qu'exerceraient en pareil cas les
autres homines, c'est a dire qu'on n'a pas vu le sujet faire levier
sur ces objets.
" (3) Le point d'appui de la force qui souleve de diverses manieres
ces objets parait resider sur le sujet lui-meme, puisque les balances
sur lesquelles on l'a place ont marque des augmentations ou des
diminutions de pression conformes aux lois de la mecanique pendant
les soulevements.
" (4) II semble que le sujet decharge a distance les electroscopes.
" (5) II semble qu'il produit a distance dans les objets des
vibrations moleculaires (coups frappes, vibrations sonores).
" (6) On constate dans son voisinage au cours des seances des
phenomenes lumineux dont les causes restent a determiner. Certains
de ces phenomenes ont presente l'apparence d'etincelles electriques.
" (7) Signalons aussi la vision de formes d'apparence humaine et
les sensations de contact eprouvees par les assistants, en rappelant
que la fraude a ete constatee pour quelques manifestations de ce
genre.
lix.] Review. 581
" (8) Eusapia au cours de certaines seances entre dans un etat
second a niveau variable. Elle accuse de l'hyperesthesie cutanee
pendant un grande partie des seances et plus ou moins longtemps
apres. Elle accuse une amnesie partielle des phenomenes des
seances.
" (9) L'ideatiou et la volonte du sujet ont une action sur la nature
et la marche des phenomenes.
"(10) Les assistants sont en butte a des supercheries dont il est
difficile de limiter exactement l'etendue " (pp. 544-545).
The Report winds up with an eloquent appeal to other possible
subjects to come before the experimenters and submit their powers
to investigation. No a priori conditions will be imposed upon them.
" We shall seek to discover in the facts, such as they present them-
selves to us during the experiments, the antecedents necessary for
their production."
These conclusions were discussed by the " Section des recherches
psychiques et psychologiques " of the Institute on November 30th,
1908 ; there being present Messrs. d' Arsonval (in the chair), Branly,
Courtier, Favre, Comte A. de Gramont, Matisse, Maxwell, de Varigny,
de Watteville, Vaugeois, and Yourievitch. The details of the dis-
cussion (a most interesting one) are given, pp. 547-578.
So far as one can judge, some of the investigators (among them
M. d'Arsonval) undoubtedly incline to believe in the genuineness
of a few phenomena, chiefly the table-levitations and the movements
of the " gueridon," whilst remaining sceptical otherwise.
I will not analyse this discussion here, one point excepted, to
which I will return presently.
So much for M. Courtier's report on a most scientific series of
experiments carried out by a most eminent company.
To many it will probably appear that it might have been more
affirmative. And it is certainly a matter of regret that after forty-
three seances extending over three years and some 25,000 francs
spent, no more categorical pronouncement has been deemed possible.
As just mentioned, some of the phenomena have favourably impressed
some of the experimenters ; but nothing more. As stated by M.
d'Arsonval himself (p. 563) —" nous n'avons pas de certitudes."
Surely this is a pity. And in view of the importance of the
effort made, more might have been expected.
582 Count PerovsJcy-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
But on the other hand, if we take into account the extraordinary
difficulties inherent to such an investigation ; the a priori improbability
of some of the phenomena ; the evasive and fugitive character of all of
them; the numerous frauds discovered; the unsatisfactory character of
the conditions at the sittings for adequate investigation, etc., etc.,
etc. —the extreme cautiousness of the conclusions of the Report
becomes intelligible, and M. Courtier's remarks on the subject
deserve our approval (p. 546).
If I may be allowed an innocent joke, Eusapia's "spirit-guide"
is primarily responsible for such a state of things. Let him improve
his methods first, —and then we shall see. It may not, however,
follow that the method of the investigators themselves left nothing
to be desired.
Conscious as I am of my extreme audacity when it comes to
criticising the modus procedendo of so distinguished a body, I will still
ask : What was the aim of the experiments 1 Was the authenticity
or the objectivity of Eusapia's phenomena the subject of the inves-
tigation 1
If the objectivity, then—at first sight at least—the aim was bril-
liantly attained. For the very numerous experiments made with
the aid of various scientific apparatus made it absolutely certain
that the movements and " levitations " of tables, great and small,
and some other things were most undoubtedly objective.
This is something. But it is not all : and the main question
is, I submit, not whether the " phenomena " did occur, but what
produced them.
Here the question assumes a different aspect. For we are told
again and again in the Report that all this scientific registering
"left the question of the genuineness of the phenomena themselves
entirely untouched " (p. 445 ; see also p. 553). This was indeed
obvious already ; but these repeated assertions are characteristic.
To give an instance: when at the sitting of June 12th, 1905, the
"gueridon" was repeatedly moved backwards and forwards, these
movements were registered by an ingenious mechanism and corre-
sponding traces obtained. This is very satisfactory, of course
but the Report is careful to point out that "ces traces n'indiquent
pas, bien entendu, de quelle maniere ont ete effectues les mouve-
ments successifs du meuble" (p. 472). I confess it seems to me
that, if so, the experiment loses almost all its value. For the
question to be answered was :
" What moved the '
gueridon '
1
The answer is: "It really did move." Now this is no explanation
Review. 583
at all. And this sort of thing occurs again and again and to my
mind is very unsatisfactory.1
On the other hand, the all-important question as to what among
the phenomena observed could and what could not have been duplicated
by conjuring has received on the investigators' part comparatively
little attention, if we except some valuable experiments by Messrs.
Courtier and Yourievitch on artificial levitations of tables (pp. 540-
542). The Report says (p. 539) that application was made in 1907
to two professional conjurers, but nothing came of it, one being
absent from Paris and the other too busy ; and it does not seem
the attempt was renewed. I should have thought it was very
well worth renewing.
1
Other experiments conducted with Eusapia by scientific men seem to me
to lie open to the same objection to a still greater extent. Take, for instance,
the experiments of Prof. Bottazzi, published in Annates des Sciences Psychiques,
1907, No. 8-11. Here also we have most ingenious appliances for the graphic
self- registering of the phenomena, both ''direct" and "indirect" (see No. 8,
pp. 560-568 and passim). So far, so good ; but when it comes to ascertaining
the precise nature of the phenomena—their authenticity or otherwise —it is
altogether another matter. In the very great majority of cases no details at
all are given as to the way in which the medium was controlled. So-and-so
"was in contact" with her—this is an expression very often used; but as to
how this "contact" was realised—whether E. P. allowed her hands to be held
or not, etc. —on these all-important points, on which, as a matter of fact, the
whole question has been turning for many years, the report is extraordinarily
reticent. Such an attitude on the part of a man of science is not easily
intelligible. Cf. also No. 11, p. 766, text and footnote, where the whole problem
of the tricks played by Eusapia's hands and of their possible bearing on the
nature of the phenomena is dismissed in seven lines and a half, it being asserted
that " unconscious trickery consists simply (!) in the fact that as the mediumistic
phenomena depend immediately on the psychical and physiological organism of
the medium, sometimes it is the natural limb which, instead of the mediumistic
limb, endeavours to execute the movement, to produce the phenomenon. And
it seems as if this exchange were noticed by the medium herself, for she often
says: 'I have touched it myself, I have moved it myself—when speaking of
the object touched or moved."
Impartiality compels me, however, to say that among the episodes of these
seances there is one (occurring three times in succession) similar to those to
which I have repeatedly called attention in the case of D. 1). Home (Proceed-
ings, Part LV., page 401, Part LVL, pp. 441, 445) : that is—the gradual melting
away of the "spirit hand" when grasped (No. 11., pp. 760-761). As to whether
such a circumstance tends to enhance Eusapia's reputation or to detract some-
thing from Home's, opinions will probably differ. There are also other incidents
which seem prima facie remarkable, but against these must be set not only
the remarks I have made but also the general tone of this report, which strikes
me as being somewhat too lyrical.
584 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
In the course of the discussion of the Report's conclusions we
find M. Courtier saying
" Nous avons cause aujourd'hui meme avec des prestidigitateurs.
lis nous ont dit qu'ils faisaient soulever des tables des quatre pieds
sans contact apparent. Est-ce avec l'aide de comperes ou autrement ?
lis ne nous l'ont pas revele "
(p. 567).
Surely this is not a very encouraging postscript to all the detailed
accounts of what was thought the most conclusive of Eusapia's
performances. Could not and ought not much more to have been
done in this direction 1
Note also that all the imposing scientific machinery used on the
one hand did not prevent the learned investigators from adhering
on the other to methods of control which they admit themselves
(pp. 517-518) to be altogether inadequate. I refer chiefly to the
method of controlling Eusapia's hands. All the history of the
experiments conducted with her since 1892 abundantly shows that
for scientific purposes the method at present in use is valueless.
With a medium who, like the late Sambor, allowed his hands to
be constantly grasped in the strict sense of the word, the conviction
of two separate persons that they were holding two separate hands
might have been sufficient for establishing the genuineness of the
" phenomena." With Eusapia Palladino, in view of the numberless
frauds practised and of the very unsatisfactory way in which her
hands are "held," we want something else. Otherwise investigation
of the phenomena becomes a mere waste of time.
I am well aware that (as stated in the Report) Eusapia will
object to certain methods of control, as a general rule ; and yet
this same report shows that at times she will give in (pp. 472, 518)
and that positive results may yet be obtained. Why, I ask,
were not such exceptions generalised ? Would Eusapia's reluctance
have been really insuperable 1 Could not certain inducements have
been used which she would not have withstood?
Should mediums in the future always refuse to submit to such
methods of control as allowing both hands to be grasped by one person ;.
or luminous strips to be pinned to their sleeves so as to make them
visible to all ; or their hands to be divided (on the table) by some
kind of partition (so that one could not do duty for two)—not to-
mention possible tying or electrical " tests," etc. —a presumption
against the authenticity of the " manifestations " would d la tongue be
established which would finally outweigh all the positive evidence^
we possess.
MX.] 585
Why, I ask, was not a decisive step made in this direction during
the Paris experiments 1
There are also other important omissions : for instance, it does
not appear whether the medium was ever searched, whether before
or after the seance. Surely this ought to have been done in most
cases at least.
Then another remark. I suppose excerpts from the original
stenographic records are given not only for the sake of "illus-
trating" such or such a "class" of phenomena, but also in order
to enable the reader to appreciate the evidential character of certain
occurrences. If so, I think these excerpts strangely incomplete
at least in some instances. Here is a sample. At the sitting of
June 10th, 1907, Eusapia tries to lift up (" supernormally ") the
(movable) surface of a small table which had been placed on the
seance-table. The record says: (p. 417)
" Elle approche sa tete de la petite table et le plateau de la
table se souleve.
"Mme. Curie. —Elle a maintenant un souffle tres net sur la tete.
" Mme. Curie debout a cote de M. Yourievitch, met sa main sur
le front d'Eusapia qui approche sa tete de la petite table. Le
plateau mobile est souleve, la main de Mme. Curie se trouvant
entre cette table et la tete d'Eusapia.
" (Controleurs : a gauche M. Yourievitch, a droite, M. Debierne.)
n
This episode may or may not have seemed conclusive to the
eye-witnesses, but the reader is left in the dark as to the most
essential details. Nothing is said either about the amount of light,
or the position of Eusapia's hands, or about the " curtain "—whether
it was partly upon the table (and perhaps covering the medium's
hands) or otherwise. Many more such instances could be adduced.
I will now revert to the discussion of M. Courtier's Report by
the "Section des recherches psychiques et psychologiques," and will
dwell on some very instructive remarks of M. Favre's (pp. 572-574).
A propos of some suggestions made as to the modus procedendo to
be adopted in future experiments with Eusapia, M. Favre insisted on
the desirability of investigating " constantly or as much as possible
"
in full light ; and formulated four hypotheses as to the reasons why
light should (supposedly) interfere with the phenomena
First hypothesis. —Some think that the medium objects to full
light because he is a mere fraud and because the light will reveal
his tricks. " If this hypothesis is the true, the only true one, one
cannot hope to succeed in operating in full light."
586 Count Perovslcy-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
Second hypothesis. —-Others think that light does really hinder the
production of the phenomena by acting more or less directly on
the form of energy at work. Those who hold to this theory are
needs bound to experiment in attenuated light.
Both suppositions are discouraging ; but others may be imagined
which, if true, would enable us to modify the experiments and
finally to achieve success with the condition of full light realised.
Third hypothesis. —Light interferes neither with the medium's tricks,
nor with the energy producing the phenomena, but gives incon-
venience to the medium, " who during the experiment is in a state
of ocular hyperalgesia or hyperaesthesia," and is prevented by
suffering from displaying his special powers.
To obviate this difficulty some kind of bandage or opaque eye-
glasses should be used and all the details of the protective
apparatus should be made the subject of special research.
Fourth hypothesis. —Light interferes neither with the cheating, nor
with the phenomena, nor with the medium from a physiological
stand-point. The reason is a psychological one. The medium on
account of his previous training is convinced that he CANNOT
operate in full light. And such a suggestion (whether consciously
or unconsciously made, coming from without or from the subject
himself) is an obstacle to his placing himself in the conditions
necessary for the experiment to succeed.
If this hypothesis be the true one, sittings might be conducted
in the light, the unfavourable impression having been previously
destroyed by a counter-suggestion. To achieve such a result it
might be necessary to use hypnotism. In the case of Eusapia it
would not be difficult to find a man in whom she would feel con-
fidence and who would have a sufficient knowledge of hypnosis.
M. Favre added that he was inclined to believe that none of the
four hypotheses represented the whole truth and that the failure
of the light seances was due to all the four factors combined. Still
he hoped that after the two last ones had been removed, experi-
ments in full light would be very near succeeding " normally and
constantly."
The use of hypnotism to remove the medium's objection to sitting
in the light seems to me well worth trying, though I am by no
means hopeful as to the results. In any case M. Favre's idea is
a very ingenious one.
But is not all this insistence on "light," however natural, some-
what exaggerated 1 In the first place darkness may after all be a
Lix.] Review. 587
necessary condition of the supposed phenomena, or at least most
of them. There is nothing d priori improbable in this. If so,
further insistence on this point becomes a mere waste of time.
Secondly, light at a sitting does not by any means afford us a guarantee
that the phenomena are genuine. With Eusapia herself many things
were observed to occur in the light (as stated by several of the
investigators in the course of the discussion); more than this, her
seances are seldom if ever held in total darkness ; and yet the
controversy as to the authenticity of the "manifestations" or other-
wise is still going on and I am afraid is not likely to cease soon. And
how about such a "phase" of the "Physical Phenomena "as "Indepen-
dent Slate-writing," which invariably takes place in the light, with
what results the psychical researcher well knows 1 It is not so
much light we want, as a radical change in the general conditions.
I want to hold the medium, not as he or she allows me, but as I
choose to ; I want him or her to be searched whenever the idea
enters into my mind; if an object is being " supernormally " moved,
I want to ascertain exactly how it is moving; if levitated, I
want to make a whole circuit round it with my hand, nay, a
series of circuits to make sure there is nothing which supports it —
not even a "ghost of a thread," anywhere; if a "materialised form"
appears I want to press it tenderly to my bosom and then patiently
wait until it gently fades away in that position. I want all this and
much more ; but if all these conditions were granted to me, or
even only the most fundamental of them, I should be ready not
to insist too much on light.
It should also be remembered that when insufficient, "light" is
for evidential purposes as bad as—and may be worse than—total
darkness. When sitting in a dark room I am able to give the whole
of my attention to controlling through two senses only, —touch and
hearing. And there is about a "dark" seance a certain unpre-
tentiousness which makes it almost sympathetic ! Accounts of a
" dark " seance are not calculated to create a very favourable im-
pression as to the medium's claims ;
najr
,
the very fact of his or her
giving "dark" seances puts people on their guard. With the "light"
sittings as they are now given, the case is different. The room
being soi-disant lighted, I am expected first to see what happens
and then to describe what I have seen to others. In the first
stage I —in most cases—merely strain my eyes and do damage to
my eye-sight, broadly speaking, to no purpose ; in the second I
allow my imagination full play, and mislead others, if I have only
588 Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo. [part
been in the slightest degree favourably impressed ; and even if I
have not I am likely to help in creating about the medium a
favourable reputation as a "light-lover."
To return to Eusapia : a " light seance " of hers with the curtain
is, I think, evidentially, at least, equivalent to a totally dark seance.
When first introduced this curtain was supposed to serve a reason-
able purpose ; it would ensure for part of the room the necessary
condition of darkness whilst allowing the medium to remain in full
view. As a matter of fact it simply complicates matters, hampers
investigation and, generally speaking, plays a part, which—with all
due respect to the medium—I may be permitted to call simply
disreputable !
1
A serious improvement is needed here also.
I note by the way that in the course of the same discussion
reference was more than once made to another medium—a Pole
named "Janek" (or rather Jan Guzik ;
Proceedings S.P.E., Part
LIL, p. 409), M. Yourievitch recommending him to the Institute's
attention and remarking that his absolute " placidity " makes him
very suitable for investigation (p. 577).
I therefore think it appropriate for me to state that I believe
this medium to be a fraud, and this not only because he has been
repeatedly exposed and because he is admitted to cheat by his
most ardent admirers, but also from personal experience—not very
exhaustive, it is true, but careful and sufficient. (See pp. 231-237
of my "Appendix" to my Eussian translation of Mr. Podmore's
Modern Spiritualism.) In my opinion " Janek "—unless he thoroughly
amends—does not deserve the honour of a scientific investigation
and his case is instructive chiefly as showing what kind of evidence
will satisfy the average Spiritualist.
1
It has in particular a certain way of being thrown over the table and cover-
ing the medium's hands which may very well serve a certain purpose, only it
will not be the purpose of scientific research. When its lower end is thus
spread over E. P.'s hands she will still keep on moving them, at times showing
one or both, at times concealing them again. And while this is going on,
"phenomena" will occur now and then, and it requires a certain straining of
attention to note whether both hands were visible simultaneously with such
and such "manifestations" or not. At times a hand will also appear between
the two halves of the curtain ; and as the result of all this hand-moving the
sitters may very easily be led to believe that they saw all the three hands at
once, whilst in fact they did not. At some sittings with E. P. in St. Petersburg
in the spring of 1898 I specially noticed that this was just the case ; and yet
at least one other sitter was found to believe and assert the contrary, until I
positively assured him that he was mistaken. In the present instance, therefore,
light engenders an error for which there would have been no room in the dark.
LIX.] Review. 589
Were I now asked to sum up in one word the impression all these
recent Eusapian investigations have left on me I would answer
" DISCOURAGEMENT."
The main question has not progressed. Results tangible and posi-
tive have, it is true, been obtained ; but only in a region where
there was no need for them. And even here I doubt whether
there is not in the evidence a serious logical flaw. The objective
reality of the occurrences has been established ; but is it not open
to those who will cling to the hallucination theory quand meme to
maintain that as these occurrences may after all have been fraudulent,
proof of the objectivity of genuine phenomena is still lacking? And
I confess I do not well see how such an argument could be met
So that even in this direction real progress is more doubtful than
would at first sight appear. As for the authenticity—well, we are
certainly no more advanced than, say, after the lie Eoubaud, nay
even after the Milan experiments, which laid, seventeen years ago, the
foundation-stone of Eusapia's reputation. The great bulk of the
phenomena has not by any means been proved to be due to fraud
unmitigated—far from it ! aud a few have come within measurable
distance of the required standard. But not one of them has after all
been clearly shown to he authentic.
Nor do I see good reasons for feeling very sanguine as to the
final outcome of future investigations.
P.S. —Since writing the above I have read in the July Journal
S.P.R. the abstract from the report by Messrs. Feilding, Baggally,
and Carrington on their recent investigation at Naples. After reading
it, I certainly feel in a more optimistic mood on the subject. The fact
that such experts in the domain of conjuring should have been
converted by what they saw to a belief in the genuineness of E.P.'s
phenomena is eminently significant and satisfactory. I also heartily
welcome their methods of investigation, and think the absence of
imposing technical appliances more than compensated for by some
of the results obtained. In view of the latter circumstance I confess
I should be happy to see a similar course of action uniformly adopted
in the future, even by scientific stars of the first magnitude.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX to VOL. XXIII.
(PARTS LVIir.—LIX.)
I 909.
A.
Abbott, David, Behind the Scenes with Mediums, Reference to, 310 (footnote).
Abt Vogler. See Browning, Hope and Star.
Aksakoff, Alexander, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - 312
American Branch of the Society, Dissolution of - - 30, 31
Amicis, Professor de, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - 317
Anagram, R. Hodgson's (Eats, Arts, Star), Reference to - 55
d'Arsonval, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino 317, 571, 572, 581
Australian Recollections (Piper-Hodgson Control), - - 106-108
Automatic Writing. <S'eeThe Scripts of "Mrs. Forbes," "Mrs. Holland"
and Mrs. Verrall —and the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper
and Mrs. Thompson.
avTos ovpavbs o.kv/j.wv, Incident, Reference to - - 251, 252
Ave Roma Immortalis, Cross-Correspondence, Reference to - - 298, 299
B.
W., and the Hon. E. Eeilding and H. Carrington,
Report on a Series of Sittings with Eusapia
Palladino - 306, 309-569
Individual Conclusions - - - 556
Notes to Seances 439, 459, 480, 501, 524, 535, 556
„ on the Bell Incident - - 525, 526
„ Classification of Phenomena - - - 557
Baggally, W.
>!
3?
)1
)!
parts lviii.-lix.] Index to Vol. XXIII. 591
Balfour, Gerald W., on Cross-Correspondences, Reference to article by 289
Ballet, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 317
Bancroft, Miss Margaret, Piper-Hodgson references to 7,10,11,13-15,17,56,57
„ „ Impressions connected with Dr. Hodgson 51, 52
„ „ Sittings with Mrs. Piper, Owl's Head Series 47-61
Bayley, Dr., Piper-Hodgson references to - 50, 60, 87, 8&
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - 37, 52
Bergman, Miss M., Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - 99,107
Bergson, Henri, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - 317
Bottazzi, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino,
317, 318, 342, 399, 400, 417, 583
Branly, M., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 317, 574
BrofFerio, Professor Angelo, Sittings witli Eusapia Palladino - - 312
Browning, Oscar, on a Piper-Myers Message ----- 240
Browning, B., Hope and Star, Cross-Correspondence, Eeference to 252, 299, 300
Butler, Samuel, Quotation from ----- - - 119
C.
Cardarelli, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino, - - 317
Carlo, Trance Personality of Eusapia Palladino - - - 517
Carrington, Hereward, and the Hon. Everard Feilding and W. W.
Baggally,
„ ReportonSittingswithEusapiaPalladino 306,309-569
„ Notes to Seances 358, 373, 391, 398, 416, 438, 456
502, 523, 555
„ „ the Bell Incident - - - 525
Cartwright, Mrs., Trance Personality of Mrs. Thompson - - 258
Celery-Root, Piper-Hodgson reference to - - 41, 42
Charades, Piper-Hodgson references to - 54, 55, 87, 88
Charpentier, M., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 317
Chiaja, Cavaliere Ercole, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 312
Child, Professor F. J., Piper-Hodgson reference to - - 113,114
Cipher Records, Piper-Hodgson reference to - - - -12, 109, 110
Communicators. See Gurney, Hodgson, Myers and Sidgwick Controls,
and the Joseph Marble and Isaac Thompson Cases.
Controls, Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control - 1, 2, 30, 122, 127, 226, 248, 282
See also Gurney, Myers, Joseph Marble, Sidgwick and Isaac
Thompson Controls.
Cooper, Fenimore, Piper-Hodgson reference to - - - - 106, 107
Courtier, M., Report of the Institut G4n4ral Psychologique, on Eusapia
Palladino ----- 317,318,331,437,481,567,570-581
Cross-Correspondences, Experiments in -
86, 102, 137, 198, 208-210,213-215,
219, 239-242, 250-255, 288-303
„ Professor A. C. Pigou on, - - - 288-303
See also The Automatic Scripts of " Mrs. Forbes,"
"Mrs. Holland" and Mrs. Verrall.
592 Index to Vol. XXIII. [parts
Curie, Professor and Madame, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino
317, 466, 481, 571, 572, 579, 585
D.
Dmon, the One-Horse. See Verrall, Dr., Telepathic Experiments of.
Densmore. See Huldah-Episode.
Dorr, J. B., Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - 20, 21, 23, 38-47, 48, 115, 134,
182, 187, 236, 237
„ Old Farm Series, the, ------- 38-47
du Prel, Carl, D.Ph., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - 312
Dwarf, Cross-Correspondence, Beference to ... 251
E.
Elliott, Miss Alice. See Grove, Mrs. Rupert.
Ermacora, Dr., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 312
F.
Falanga, Signor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - 399, 400, 417, 418
Favre, M., On Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - - 585, 586
Fechner, Theory of Memory Processes applied to the Phenomena of
"Controls" ---------- 119,120
Feilding, the Hon. Everard, and W. W. Baggally and H. Carrington.
„ Eeport on a Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino 309-563
,, ,,
(General)
,, „ Introduction - - - 310-320
,, „ Detailed Eeport - ... 345-554
„ „ Analysis and Tables of Phenomena 328-340, 556, 557
„ „ General Account of the Sittings - 321-340
,, ,, „ Conclusions- ----- 340-344
,, ., Individual Conclusions of the Investigators - 555-559
„ „ Notes on Seances by E. Feilding 357, 374, 393, 395, 417,
436, 461, 478, 503, 504, 519, 534, 566
„ on the Bell Incident - - - 525, 526
„ Control, the, Question of 323, 324, 325-333, 347, 348, 357-
361, 373, 375-377, 391-394, 396, 399-401, 416, 418-
419, 420, 436-442, 456-460, 478-484, 486, 501, 502,
504-507, 519-524 528, 534-537, 555, 556, 558, 566
„ ,, ,, Senses in which the word is used 324 (foot-note)
„ „ Fraud, discussion of the possibility of -306-308,312-319,
324, 326-328, 340, 342 (foot-note), 357, 374, 376,
378, 383, 391, 393-399, 401, 412, 416, 437, 439-458,
460, 461, 464, 478, 480, 481, 483, 502, 505, 521,
522, 523, 533-535, 555, 556, 558-566, 568
„ ,,
Hallucination, Collective, considered as an explana-
tion of the phenomena - - - 341-344, 462, 558
Petrovo-Solovovo, Count Perovsky, Note on the Eeport 589
See also Levitations, Luminous Appearances and Materialisations.
LVIII.-LIX.] Index to Vol. XXIII. 593
Finzi, Dr., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - - 312
Fire-Buckets, Piper-Hodgson reference to 59, 60
Flammarion, Camille, on Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 317
Fontenay, M. de, Photographs of Phenomena obtained with Eusapia
Palladino - - - 342
" Forbes, Mrs.," Automatic Script of, Eeference to - - 289
„ Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - 125
" Forbes, Talbot," References to - ----- 125,210,289
G.
Galeotti, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino
317, 399, 401, 416, 417, 418, 528, 529
Gaule, Miss Maggie, Messages from the Hodgson-Control through - 85
Gerosa, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - 312
Gibson, Mr., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - 418
Gower, Dr. T. H, Piper-Hodgson reference, to Experiments of - - 84-86
" Grove, Mrs. Rupert," Sittings with Mrs. Piper 234, 238, 244, 248, 255-279
,, Sittings with Mrs. Thompson - 257-265
„ The "Joseph Marble" Series - - 255-279
Gurney-Control, the, Sir Oliver Lodge on,
Through Mrs. Piper- - 138, 139, 140-162, 282
„ „ " Miss Rawson " - - - 223-225
„ Dramatic Characteristics of the Impersonation
138, 140, 159, 282
H.
Hallucination, Collective, considered as an explanation of the
Physical Phenomena of Eusapia Palladino • - - 341-344, 558
Handel, S. Butler on the Influence of ------ 119
Hodgson, Dr. R., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - 314, 315, 482
„ Reports on the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper,
References to 19, 28, 29, 130, 131, 136, 139, 147, 148,
163-171, 233, 284
Hodgson-Control, the (Mrs. Piper's).
James, Professor W., Report on (1905-08) - - 1,2,30
Lodge, Sir Oliver, on,
138, 139, 148, 160, 226, 229, 236, 248-250, 282, 283
Sidgwick, Mrs. H., and Piddington, J. G., Note on the Eng-
lish Series of 1906-7 - - - 122
Dramatic Characteristics of the Impersonation 4-7, 11-13, 31, 32,
33, 36-38, 48, 49, 52, 60, 61, 69, 70, 73, 76, 78-80, 100,
101, 109, 111, 115-119, 122, 123, 138-236, 237, 282, 283
Hodgson, Miss, Information as to the Piper-Hodgson Australian
Recollections - - - - - - - - - 106-108
" Holland, Mrs.," Automatic Script of - 137, 230-232, 235, 289
„ Cross-Correspondences with Mrs. Piper - - 230-235
Home, D. D., References to 311, 320, 583 (footnote) *
2 p
594 Index to Vol. XXIII. [parts
Hope, Star and Browning, Cross-Correspondence, Reference to 252, 299, 300
Huklah Densroore Episode, the (Piper-Hodgson) - - 20, 43, 44
Hyde Family, Piper-Hodgson references to ... - 106, 107
Hyslop, Professor J. H., Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - 18, 78, 137
Hutton, Mrs. (and Miss), Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 536
„ Note by --------- 554
I.
" I operator " (and " Imperator " Band), Trance Personality of Mrs. Piper
3, 19, 29, 74, 78, 115, 137, 168, 175, 188, 227, 235, 248
Institut General Psychologique (Paris), Report on Eusapia Palladino
317, 318, 437, 481, 567, 570-581
J.
James, Henry, Jr., Sittings with Mrs. Piper - 187, 237
James, Mrs. Win., Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - 11, 21, 80, 109
James, William, Jr., Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - - - 11
James, Professor W., A Pluralistic Universe, by, Reference to - 119
„ Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control - 1, 2, 30
,, ,, Discussion of points bearing on the
question of Identity 4-7, 13, 16-23
25-29, 31-38, 47, 60, 61, 78-80, 97, 98,
99, 106-109, 111, 112, 113, 11 5-121
,, ,, ,, General Conclusions - 115-121
„ „ Australian Recollections - - 106, 107
„ „ Dramatic character of the Control 4-7, 11-
13, 31-33, 36-38, 48, 49, 52, 60, 61, 69, 70,
73, 76, 78-80, 100, 101, 109, 111, 115-119,
236, 237
,, ,, Failure of attempts to obtain Tests 44, 46,
83, 86, 87,90,91,92, 96, 97, 98,107,115, 116
„ „ Negative Value of the Hodgson-
Control as a Test Case 5,28,29,33,34, 121
,, „ Realisiic Nature of impression re-
ceived by Sitters- - 31-33, 37, 236
,, References to places, incidents, and
persons known to the Control
7, 10-26, 38-114
„ „ Sittings with Mrs. Piper- 80, 110, 111
Jan Guzik, Fraudulent Mediumship of - ... - 588
Jessup, Dr., Piper-Hodgf-on reference to - - - - - - 50, 54
Johnson, Miss Alice, Report on the Automatic Script of "Mrs.
Holland," References to - - 137, 294, 298
„ „ Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - 122
,, „ The Education uf the Sitter, by, Reference to
341 (footnote)
Judah, Noble, Sittings with Mrs. Piper ... 70
LVIIL-LIX.] Index to Vol. XXIII. 595
K.
Kendall, Piper-Hodgson reference to ----- - 107
"King, John," Trance Personality of Eusapia Palladino - 324 (footnote)
L.
Latin Message, Mr. Piddington's, Eeferences to - - - 251-253, 299
Leaf, Dr. Walter, Report on the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper,
Reference to - -- -- -- -- - 130
Levitations, Complete Levitations of the Table in the presence of
Eusapia Palladino 329, 331, 332, 347, 352, 353, 356, 357, 364, 365, 384,
386, 388, 390, 392, 394, 395, 400, 401, 404, 407, 411,
412, 418, 420, 431, 432, 434, 435, 438, 439, 487, 508,
509-511, 515, 516, 521, 523, 524, 528, 530, 532, 557,
563, 571, 572, 579
Lodge, Professor Alfred, Sittings with Mrs. Pij^er - 149
Lodge, Miss E. C, Sittings with Mrs. Piper - ... 155
Lodge, Lady, Sittings with Mrs. Piper - 154, 227, 234, 238, 248, 270
„ Sittings with Mrs. Thompson - - - 200, 205-207
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Report on Eusapia Palladino (He Roubaud Series)
307, 308, 314, 315, 316, 331
„ Report on some Trance Communications received
chiefly through Mrs. Piper - 127-285
„ „ Anticipatory Reply to Critics - - 128
,, „ Explanatory and Historical - 130
„ ,,
Recognition of a Photograph, Experiment
in ------- 275
,, „ Remarks on the Piper controls - - 137
„ „ Remarks on Relics ----- 196
,, „ Supplementary Remarks - 280
„ „ „ Phinuit - - - - 280
„ „ „ Concluding observations - 281
„ „ The Controls :
„ The Gurney Control (Mrs. Piper) 140-162
„ „ „ ("Miss Rawson") 219-226
„ „ The "Joseph Marble" Series (Mrs.
Thompson and Mrs. Piper) - 255-278
,, The Myers and Hodgson Controls
(Mrs. Piper) - 226-255
„ ("Miss Rawson") 219-226
„ „ „ „ (Mrs. Thompson) 198-219
„ „ The Isaac Thompson Case (Mrs. Piper) 162-198
Lombroso, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 312
Luminous Appearances seen at Seances with Eusapia Palladino
330, 339, 340, 442, 455. 464, 474, 475, 479, 480, 482, 557, 573, 574
Lyman, Mrs., Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - - - 14, 15
, Oil the Ring Incident, ------- 17
2P2
596 Index to Vol. XXIII. [parts
M.
M., Miss, Sittings with Mrs. Piper ------- 164
M., Mrs., Sittings with Mrs. Piper 52,110,112-114
" Marble, Joseph," A Series of Communications from - - - 255-279
„ Communications through Mrs. Piper - - 264-279
„ „ „ Mrs. Thompson - 255-264
,, Dramatic Characteristics of the Impersonation
263, 264, 275, 283
,,
Experiment on recognition of a Photograph - - 275
Materialisations seen in the presence of Eusapia Palladino 329, 330, 337,
338, 361, 420, 430-438, 440-442, 445-454, 456,
460, 462-464, 470, 472-474, 476-483, 485, 495,
499, 500, 537, 557, 573, 583
Meeson, Albert, Shorthand reports of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino 321
,, Position of, in regard to the Experiments, - - 559-560
Meetings of the Society, General - - - - - - - 1, 305
Melbourne, Latrobe Street, Piper-Hodgson reference to - - - 106
Miles, Miss Clarissa, Telepathic Experiments of, reference to
292, 293, 295
Morelli, Signor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino 399, 400, 417, 418
Morselli, Professor Enrico, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino, 316, 317, 331
Moses, Stainton, References to the Experiences of - - - - 74
The " Tmperator Band" - 137,235,236
Muirhead, Professor, Sittings with Mrs. Piper ----- 281
Multum in Parvo, Cross-Correspondence, Reference to - 239, 241, 242
Munroe, Jack, Reference to-- -----107
Myers, Ernest, Thompson-Myers reference to - - - 203
Myers, F. W. H., Letter referring to the " Joseph Marble " Series - 264
,,
Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - - 314
Myers-Control, the
Communications through " Mrs. Holland " - - - 215
Mrs. Piper- - 19,138,226-255
„ „ "MissRawson" - 219-226
Mrs. Thompson - 198-219
„ „ Mrs. Verrall -213,214,234,288,289
Dramatic Characteristics of the Impersonation
138, 198, 199, 201-205, 218, 219, 226, 282, 283
Lodge, Sir Oliver, on - - - 198-255
N.
Nelly-Control, the(Mrs. Thompson) 199 201, 205-208, 211-213, 217, 256-262
Newbold, Professor W., Report on the Trance Phenomena of Mrs.
Piper, Reference to - - - 137
„ „ Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - 23, 61
Nigger-Talk incident, Piper-Hodgson reference to - - 18, 96
LVIII.-LIX.] Index to Vol. XXIII. 597
O.
Objects brought to Sittings to assist Communications
9, 82, 89, 98, 114, 143, 189, 190, 237, 257, 266
„ Remarks on Relics, by Sir Oliver Lodge - - - - 196
Ochorowicz, Dr., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 313, 314
„ „ Miss S. Tomczyk - - - 577, 578
Old Farm Series, Piper-Hodgson Communications to G. B. Dorr - 38-47
Owl's Head Series, Piper-Hodgson Communications to Miss M. Bancroft 47-61
P.
P., T., Sittings with Mrs. Piper - ...... 37
Palladino, Eusapia, Cambridge Series of Experiments with
307, 315, 316, 326, 334
,, Historical account of - - - - 311-318
„ Report on the Naples Experiments of 1908, by the
Hon. E. Feilding, W. W. Baggally and H.
Carrington 309-569
,, Report of the Institut General Psi/c/tologique, Review
of, by Count Perovsky-Petrovo Solovovo 570-589
„ Sidgwick, Mrs., Note on, - - - 306-308
See also Levitations, Luminous Phenomena and Materialisations,
and Feilding, the Hon. Everard.
Pausies, Piper-Hodgson reference to - ... 44
Pansini, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - 317
Passwords, given as Tests (Piper-Hodgson Control) 54, 70, 86, 87, 89, 94,
115, 116, 250
Pecuniary Messages, the (Piper-Hodgson Communications) 26
"Pelham, George" (G. P.), Control (Mrs. Piper), Chief references to
9, 38, 137, 164, 165
,, ,, Dramatic Characteristics of the Impersonation 38
Petrovo-Solovovo, Count Perovsky.
„ Review of M. Courtier's Report on the - - 570-89
,, Paris Experiments with Eusapia Palladino
318 (footnote), 319, 570-589
„ Note on the S.P.R. Experiments of 1908 - 589
" Phinuit," Trance Personality of Mrs. Piper
133, 136-140, 143, 148, 149, 150-158, 160-164, 233, 234, 280, 281
Sir Oliver Lodge on - 161-163, 280, 281
Photographs, Experiment in the recognition of, by a Control - - 275
Physical Phenomena. See Feilding, Hon. E., Keport on Sittings with
Eusapia Palladino.
Miscellaneous, - - 311,320,577,578,583
See also Levitations, Luminous Appearances and Materialisations.
Piddington, J. G., Report on The Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper
122, 137, 172, 299, 300
„ and Sidgwick, Mrs. H, Note on Mrs. Piper's
Hodgson-Control in England, 1906-7 - - 122
,598 Index to Vol. XXIII. [parts
Pigou, Professor A. C, Psychical Eesearch and Survival after Bodily
Death 286
,, on Cross-Correspondences, - - - 288-303
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of.
Cross-Correspoudences (with Mrs. Verrall and others)
86, 102, 137, 198, 239, 241, 242, 250-255, 288-303
„ Jaines, Prof. W., Report on the Hodgson-Control - 1,2, 30
,, Letter from, --------- 107
„ Lodge, Sir Oliver, Report on Some Trance Communica-
tions chiefly through ------ 127-286
„ . Pigou, Professor A. C, on 288-303
„ Sidgwick, Mrs. H., and J. G. Piddington, Note on the
Piper-Hodgson Control ------ 122
Plotinus, References to, - -- -- -- -- 251
Podmore, F., On Eusapia Palladino, Reference to - - 31 3 (footnote)
,, On the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper - - - 137
Pope, Miss Theodate, Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - 7-10, 51, 52, 110, 111
Predictions. See Unfulfilled Communications.
"Prudens," Trance Personality of Mrs. Piper - 81,235
Psychical Research and Survival after Bodily Death, Professor A. C.
Pigou on - - - - - - - 286
Psychonietry, in connection with the Phenomena of Controls 98, 120, 121, 196
See also Objects brought to Sittings.
Putman, Dr. J., Sittings with Mrs. Piper - 99
Putnam Family, Piper-Hodgson references to - - - 91, 92, 97, 116
Putnam, Miss Anne, Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - 98,99,10.9,114
Q.
" Q," Piper-Hodgson references to - - 10,12,23,106,107,108
R.
Ramsden, Miss Hermione, Telepathic Experiments of, Reference to
292, 293, 295
"Rawson, Miss," Messages through,
„ The Gurney and Myers Controls of - - 212, 214, 219-26
„ ,,
Cross-Correspondence (with Mrs. Thompson)
214, 215, 223-25
"Rector," Trance Personality of Mrs. Piper 3, 7-10, 31, 32, 52, 67, 81, 89,
96, 125, 129, 133, 134, 138, 139, 160, 168, 175, 189, 191, 193,
196, 227, 232, 234, 235, 236, 238, 248, 267, 268, 270, 280, 281
Reichmann, Dr., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - 314, 315
Review - 570
Richet, Professor Ch., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino
307, 312, 313, 314, 315, 317
Riding Accident, Piper-Hodgson reference to 104-106, 107
Ring Incident, Piper-Hodgson references to - - - 7, 13, 90
lviii.-lix.] Index to Vol. XXIII. 599
Eobbins, Miss, Sitting with Mrs. Piper - - - - - - n4
Eoberts, Charley, Piper-Hodgson reference to - 106, 10/
Eochas, Colonel de, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - 43/
Eyan, James, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - 484, 528, 529
Note on the Bell Incident - - 525
St. Paul, Cross-Correspondence, Eeference to - - 230-232, 235
"Sandford, Mrs. Kate," Communications from. See The "Joseph
Marble" Series.
Santi, Signor de, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino 399, 400, 417, 418, 437
Scarpa, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 317
Schiaparelli, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 31
Sealed Envelopes, Hodgson-Piper references to Non-existent
86, 87, 115, 229, 230, 246
Sidgwick, Mrs. H, Introductory Note to the Eeport on Sittings with
Eusapia Palladino ------ 306
Sittings with Eusapia ------ 314
and Piddington, J. G., Note on Mrs. Piper's
Hodgson-Control of 1906-07 - - - 122
Sidgwick, Professor H, Piper-Hodgson references to past incident
concerning - - - - - - 111
Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - - 314
Sidgwick-Control (Mrs. Piper's), Negative Character of - - 126
("Miss BawsonV')- - 220,221
Soule, Mrs., Messages from the Hodgson-Control through - 86
Star. See Hope, Star and Browning.
Stevens, Charles E. Communications from (Mrs. Piper) - 191-193, 196
Sudeley, Lord, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - 484
Survival after Bodily Death, Psychical Eesearch and, by Professor
A. C. Pigou -
286
T.
Tambukini, Professor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino -
Tavern Club, Piper-Hodgson references to - - 46, 115
Test Questions, Failure of attempts to obtain answers to
44, 46, 68, 69, 83, 86, 87, 90-92, 96, 98, 107, 115, 116, 122-126
144, 145, 172, 173, 228, 229, 234, 250, 260, 268, 288
Thaw, Mrs. Blair, Note on the Huldah-Episode - . -
25
Thompson, Edwin, Sittings with Mrs. Piper - 163, 175-196
Thompson, Mr. and Mrs. Isaac C. —
Earlier Sittings with Mrs. Piper - 154, 155, 158
The Isaac Thompson Case (Mrs. Piper) - - 162-198
Dramatic Characteristics of the Impersonation 170, 171, 181, 283
600 Index to Vol. XXIII. [parts
Thompson, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of
Cross-Correspondences (with " Mrs. Forbes ") - - - 213
„ „ ( „ Mrs. Verrall) 208-210, 213, 214, 219
Hodgson, Dr. R., on - 199-200
Lodge, Sir Oliver, on ----- - 198-265
„ „ the "Joseph Marble" Series 256-263
„ „ the Myers-Control 198-219
Piddington, J. G., Eeport on, References to - - 199, 200
Tomczyk, Miss Stanislawa, Dr. Ochorowicz's Sittings with - - 577, 578
Trance Phenomena (of Mrs. Piper) - - - - - 2, 30, 127-285
,, „ Conditions of Conscious, and Memory during
131-136, 177, 181, 185-7, 233, 275-281
„ ,, Historical Survey of the Phenomena from
1889- - 130-140
,, ,, See also the Gurney, Hodgson, Myers, and Sidgwick
Controls and the cases of Joseph Marble and
Isaac Thompson.
„ „ (of Mrs. Thompson) - 198-219, 255-265
,, ,, Conditions of Consciousness during - - 200
„ „ See also the "Joseph Marble" case and the Myers-
Control.
Trevelyan, Sir George, Thompson-Myers reference to - - - - 202
U.
Unfulfilled, Communications awaiting fulfilment - 255, 264, 265, 274
Unverifiable Communications, Specimens of - - 145
V.
Verrall, Dr., Telepathic Experiments of (the One-Horse Davm),
Reference to 296, 297, 298, 300, 301
Verrall, Mrs., References to the Automatic Script of
102, 137, 239, 241, 242, 250-255, 288-303
Cross-Correspondences (Mrs. Piper) 239, 241, 242, 250-255,
289, 295, 299-300
("Mrs. Holland") - 298-301
W.
Watch Stopping, Piper-Hodgson references to - - - 11, 49, 116
Watson, Rev. John (Ian Maclaren), Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - 155
" West " Family, " Joseph Marble " reference to - - 271, 272
" Wilson, Mr." See Watson, Rev. John.
Worcester, Elwood, The Living Word, Reference to - - - - 119
X.
X., Signora, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino, - 484, 502
„ „ Report on the examination of the Medium - 505
lviii.-lix.] Index to Vol. XXIII. 601
Y.
Y., Miss, Sitting with Eusapia Palladino - - 484, 502
„ Keport on the examination of the Medium - - 505
Yonrievitch, S., Sittings with Eusapia Palladino
317, 570, 579, 580, 585, 588
Z.
Zeivorn, Attempted Pass-word - - - 86,94,116
Zend-Avesta. See Fechner.
Zingaropoli, Signor, Sittings with Eusapia Palladino - - 536
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
Part LVIII. Vol. XXIII. June, 1909. Price Gs. net.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
General Meeting, . . . . .1
I. Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control. By Professor William
James.
'
Part I., , -2
^fe''..Part II., '
^^^^^^^^^^g^B^^jlp^^^^lj 30
II. Note on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control in England in 1906-7. By
Mrs. H. Sidgwick and J. G, Piddi.vctox, . . 122
III. Report on some Trance Communications received chiefly through
Mrs. Piper. By Sir Oliver Lodge.
Table of Content", . 127
Introduction, . . . 128
Chapter I. Explanatory and Historical, 130
,, II. The Gurney Control, 140
„ III. The Isaac Thompson Case. . 162
,, IV. The Myers Control, . . . .
•
.198
,, V. Messages obtained through Miss Ravvson, . 219
,, VI. Messages from the Myers and Hodgson Controls of
Mrs. Piper, Autumn, 1906, .... 226
,, VII. The Myers and™ Hodgson Controls of Mrs. Piper,
Spring, 1907, . 248
,, VIII. The Joseph Marble Series, . . 255
,, ^IX. Supplementary Remarks, . . . . 280
IV. Psychical Research and Survival after Bodily Death. By Pro-
fessor A. C. Pigou, 286
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings, rests entirely with their author*.
printed for the society by
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED,
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
Agents for the sail of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, i3 High Street, Maryi.ebone, W.
GLASGOW : JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, Ut St. VixcExr Street.
AMERICA*. THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mask.
All rights reserved-
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1909.
PRESIDENT.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Litt.D.
VICE-PRESIDENTS
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.
Rr. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Professor William James.
Sir Oliver Lodge, D. Sc. , LL. D., F.R.S.
Lord Rayleigh, P.R.S.
The Rt. Rev. the Bishop of Ripon.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggally.
This Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Ernest N. Bennett, M.P.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal-
carres, K.T., F.RS.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir 'Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, M.Sc, M.B. -
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.
J, G. Piddlngton.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, P.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
H. Arthur Smith.
Lieut. -Col. G. L. Le M. Taylor.
Sir J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
V. J. Woolley.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick,
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., -
Professor Henry Sidgwick,
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.,
Professor William James, -
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., - - -
•
Frederic W. H. Myers, -
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., -
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.,
Professor Charles Riciiet,-
The Right Hon Gerald W. Balfour,
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
1882-
1885-
i ass-
ises.
1894-
1896-
1900.
1901-
1904.
1905.
1906-
1908.
1884.
1887.
1892.
1895.
1899.
1903.
1907
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1,30 p.m.
Proceedings of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of Parts LII.-LVII.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.]
Part LII. —February, 1907. Price 3s. net. page
I. Richard Hodgson : In Memoriam (with Portrait) : By Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, J. G. Piddington, and M. A. de Wolfe Howe, . 356
II. Presidential Address. By The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, 373
Supplement.
I. Mr. Petrovo-Solovovo on Spiritism. By Walter Leaf, Litt.D., . 397
II. The Case of Sally Beauchamp. By W. M'Dougall, M.Sc, M.B., . 410
III. Reviews :
" Henry Sidgwick : a Memoir. By A. wS. and E. M. S." By
Frank Podmore, . . . . . 432
Professor J. H. Hyslop's "Borderland of Psychical Research,"
etc. By Hereward Carrington, .... 451
Professor Jastrow's " The Subconscious." By Frank Podmore, 455
Appendix to Part LII. —March, 1907. Price Is. net.
Officers and Council for 1907, and List of Members and Associates, . 461
Part LIII. (Vol. XX.)—October, 1906. Price 10s. net.
On a Series of Automatic :
Writings. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, . 1
Part I. General Description of the Script.
Chapter I. Introductory, ...... 6
,, II. Form and Style of the Script, . . . .18
,, III. Other General Characteristics, . . .47
,, IV. Varieties of Dramatic Form Assumed, . . . 67
,, V. Comments in the Script on the Phenomena, . . 84
,, VI. Unverifiable Statements and Allusions, . . 105
Part II. Verifiable Matter contained in the Script.
Chapter VII. Reminiscences and Connexion with Dreams, etc., . 133
,, VIII. Experiments in Conveying Information Telepathically
to the Script, . . . . . . 156
,, IX. Spontaneous References to Living Acquaintances, . 177
X. References to other " Sensitives :" Cross-Correspondences, 205
;) XL Cross-Cprrespondences—Continued, . . .219
,, XII. Miscellaneous References to Past Events, . . 276
,, XIII. Miscellaneous References to Future Events, . . 319
Illustrative Appendix, ....... 340
Part LIV. (Vol. XXI. )—October, 1907. Price 3s. net.
I. The Appreciation of Time by Somnambules. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D. , 2
II. Experiments in Thought-transference. By C. Miles and H Ramsden, 60
III. Report on some Becent Sittings for Physical Phenomena in America.
By Alice Johnson, ....... 94
Supplement.
I. Vis-Knut. By Walter Leaf, Litt.D., . . . .136
II. Reviews
Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey's "Treatment by Hypnotism and Suggestion."
By Frank Podmore, ....... 149
Dr. August Forel's "Hypnotism or Suggestion and Psychotherapy," and
Dr. T. S. Clouston's "The Hygiene of Mind." By C. L. Tuckey, M.D., 156
Miss Mary Hamilton's "Incubation." By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, 162
Proceedings of the Society. Continued. PAGE
Part LV.—June, 1908. Price 5s. net.
On the Automatic Writing of Mrs. Holland. By Alice Johnson.
Table of Contents, .
Chapter I. Introduction, .
',, II. First Period : September, 1903, to January, 1904,
III. First Cross-Correspondence with Mrs. Verrall,
„ IV. January to August, 1905, ....
V. Fifth Period : October, 1905, to February, 190(5, .
,, VI. Sixth Period : February to April, 1906, .
,, VII. The Theory of Cross-Correspondences,
Supplement.
Review
Mr. Hereward Carrington's "Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism."
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo,
Part LVL—February, 1909. Price 3s. net.
I. The Alleged Miraculous Hailstones of Remiremont. By M. Sage, .
II. The Hallucination Theory as applied to Certain Cases of Physical
Phenomena. By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo,
III. The Education of the Sitter. By Altce Johnson,
Note on Miss. Johnson's Paper. By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-
* SulovovOj . '.. - -
.".
-JJ*\ . V. ~ .,' .
;V
Supplement.
He views :
Professor Morselli's " Psicologia e '
Spiritismo 5
: Iinpressioni e note
critiche sui fenomeni medianici di Eusapia Paladino. " By Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick, . . . . .
Mr. F. Podmore's "Naturalisation of the Supernatural." By
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, ....
Officers and Council for 1909, ......
List of Members and^Associates, .....
Index to Vol. XXL, .......
166
170
176
219
240
265
29.0
369
392
405
436
483
512
516
525
533
534
572
Part LVII. (Vol. XXII.)—October, 1908. Price 10s. net.
I. Presidential Address. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, . . .1
II. A Series of Concordant Automatisms. By J. G-. Piddincton, . 19
III. An Incident in Mrs. Piper's Trance. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, . 417
Bound Copies of Volumes I. -XXII. of the Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Francis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above. -
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, or separate Parts,
at half-price, as below, on application to the Secretary, Society for -Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The W. B.
Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
Vol. I. (Parts i.-iv.) pp. 336. 5s. Vol. XII. (Pts. xxx.-xxxi.) pp. 391. 4s.
,, XIII. (
,,xxxn. -xxxin. )pp. 653. 6s.
,, XIV. ( ,, xxxiv. -xxxv. ) pp. 436. 5s.
,, XV. ( ,, xxxvi. -XL.) pp. 522. 6s.
,, XVI. (Part XLi.)pp. 650. 6s.
,, XVII. (Parts XLii.-XLV.)pp. 468.
6s. 3d.
,, XVIH. ( ,, xlvi.-xlix. ) pp. 548. 7s.
,, XIX. ( ,, L.-nr.) pp. 508. 6s. 6d.
XX. (Part liii. ) pp. 444. 6s.
,. XXI. (Pts. liv.-lvi.) pp. 5S4. 6s.
Vol. XXII. (Part LVII.) pp. 445. 6s.
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Private Circulation
among Members and Associates only.
I. (Parts i.-rv. ) pp. 336. 5s.
II. ( „ v.-vii.) pp. 340. 5s.
III. ( ., vm.-ix.) pp. 500. 5s.
IV. ( ,, x.-xi.) pp. 605. 4s.
V. ( ,, xii.-xiv.) pp. 606. 5s.
VI. ( ,, xv. -xvii. ) pp. 707. 5s.
VII. ( ,, xviii. -xx.) pp. 442. 4s.
VIII. ( ,, xxi. -xxni.) pp. 647. 5s.
IX. ( ,, xxiv. -xxv.) pp. 407. 4s.
X. (Part xxvi.) pp. 466. 4s.
XL (Pts. xxvii. -xxix.) pp. 637-. 5s.
2*
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
