{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 4814","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n41_jun_1887.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N41 June 1887","mylang":"de"}
No. XLJ.-VOL. III. JUNE,1887.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
Thought Transference.-Prize Competition
Case. Received by the Literary Committee
CO!TellpOndence ••
PAG.
.. 118
.. 115
.. 120
THOUGHT TRANSFERENCE.-PRIZE COMPETITION.
Mr. Malcolm Guthrie, J.P., of Liverpool, has issued the following
leaflet. Perhaps some of our members may be induced to become
competitors.
Between certain persons, and specially among the members of a
family or persons who are constant companions, there has been found
to exist sometimes the faculty of the direct transference of impressions
from one mind to another without the intervention of the ordinary
channels of sense. To ascertain to what extent this faculty exists the
above prizes are offered.
Those who wish to. compete are recommended to commence tho
experiments as a pastime, as this method conduces best to success. Let
one person be blindfolded and touch hands with another person who is
steadfastly looking at some object, and presently, if he or she possesses
the faculty in question, the image of the object so regarded may
gradually emerge into peculiar distinctness. Th~ objects to be experi.
mented with should be simple in shape and distinct in colour, such as
pieces of coloured ribbon or paper cut into a variety of shapes, letters,
or playing-cards, &c. They should be exhibited on a plain white or
black background, well illuminated, aud should be so placed as not to
be seen with other things at the same time.
When it is discovered that anyone possesses the power, then the
experiment should be repeated without contact, and, if still successful,
conditions should be imposed which absolutely exclude the possibility
of even unconscious perception of the object through any recognised
channel of sense. The most perfect experiment, and that insisted
upon for the prize competition, is thus arranged. The percipient is
seated on a chair, blindfolded, all mirrors or reflecting surfaces being
Digitized by Google
U4 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [June, 1881.
removed or covered up. The agent or operator leaves the room and
draws very distinctly in black crayon upon a piece of paper, say 6 by
4, an outline or diagram of not too complex a character, and, bringing
it into the room enclosed in a small folio, places it upon a screen behind
the percipient. The operator then takes his seat in front of the
diagram, which is now exposed to view, and announces that he is
ready. Silence is maintained while the willer or agent concentrates·
his gaze upon the diagram, until the percipient announces that he or she
thinks the correct impression has been received. Upon this the folio
is closed, the percipient is freed from the blindfolding, and supplied
with a piece of papel" and crayon pencil, with which the impression
produced on the mind is recorded.
The result may afford adequate evidence of thought-transference
without being an exact reproduction; sometimes the reproduction is
transposed from right to left, or sometimes, if the diagram is complex,
part only is produced or the parts are put together differently.
Whatever the result may be, a memorandum should be made on the
drawings of the conditions of the experiment,-date, names of experi-
menters, with or without contact, length of time, &c., and also of any .
remarks made by the percipient during the experiment. The agent
should maintain silence, but if he should say anything this also should
be recorded. Corresponding numbers should be placed upon the
original and reproduction. If different distances are tried, these also
should be recorded.
The experiments should not be so long continued lIor so frequently
repeated as to cause fatigue.
It is desirable that some scientific friend should be called in early
in the case of successful experiments, so as to secure that no essential
condition is overlooked.
No public use will be made of the names of the competitors without
consent.
Prizes of .£10 each will be given for the 10 best sets of 10 drawings,
produced as described, in one or two sittings; but it is an essential
condition that the competitors should show the same ability to the
satisfaction of one or two gentlemen who will be appointed to test the
capacity of the competitors. Should less than 20 persons compete,
the number of prizes given will be reduced to one-half the number of
the competitors.
The drawings must be sent in by July 15th, and will be adjudicated
upon before August 1st.
Address, ALPHA, R. WATSON'S Advertising Offices,
150, Fleet-street, LONDON.
Digitized by Google
June,1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. 115
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
G.-178.
From Mrs. B., of Eastbourne, known to F. P.
1885.
It was in the year 1870, in the month of February, that I took as a
furnished house No.4, -square, Brighton. I occupied it with my widowed
friend, Mrs. F--t, and three children of my own, four, five, and six years
respectively.
Mrs. F--t slept in the top front bedroom (second floor), and after she
had occupiE'd the room for two or three months, she complained of being
annoyed by a feeling of some one leaning over her bed, and breathing close
to her, which caused her to wake up suddenly and put out her hand to see if
anyone was there. The child, too, who slept with her later on, and who of
course was put to bed early, used to wake from her sleep crying bitterly and
declaring that she saw "angel!!" and heard "rattlings." The child told me
this whell I went up to comfort her one evening. My friend, Mrs. F--t,
too (who is a woman of strong physique and good common-sense), told me
that she was annoyed in passing upstairs in the dusk (there was no gaB in
the upper part of the house) by feeling herRelf frequently pushed forcibly aside
by some one or some thing, for whom she had to make way. At last she
became so nervous from disturbed nights and broken sleep, that she gave up
sleeping in that bedroom, and came down and slept with me in the room
below, and the child was put to sleep with one of the servants, and the room
was only used by Mrs. F--t as a dressing-room: About this time, while
I was away from borne, Mrs. F--t wa~ disturbed by hearing sounds as if the
servants were entertaining some friends in the drawing-room below, laughter
and clatter of forks, &c. She said nothing to me, as she did not wish to make
mischief, and left me to find them out for myself. 011 my return we were
sleeping together in the room below (on the first floor), when we were awoke
almost simultaneously between 12 and 1 p.m. by a great noise pro-
ceeding from the drawing-room below, on· the ground floor-sounds of
talking and laughter, the jingling of glasses, the rattling of plates, and of
chairs being moved about, as if the servants were entertaining a supper-
party, which in fact was what we thought. The sounds were most distinct,
and we could not be mistaken; they certainly did not proceed from the next
house. We put on our dressing-gowns ill haste and went down stairs together,
to find the drawing-room ill darkness and solitude as we left it! About the
same time Mrs. F--t and I were sitting one evening in the back drawing-
room, OIl a still summer evening, with the window (not a casement) open, and
not a breath of air stirring, when it was suddenly and violently shaken, the
noise produced being very considerable.* We looked at one another in
astonishment, and left the room at once to see if the servants were in the
room above or below, but found them sitting in the front kitchen, having
heard nothing. The road at the back was at some distance from the house.
*Mrs. B. illustrated the noise by shaking the window in her sitting-room
forcibly with her hands.-F. P.
Digitized by Google
116 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1887.
I must now tell you that there was a small room at the top of the house-
second floor front-which the proprietor of it had locked up. And as an old
friend and school-fellow was coming to stay with me in June, and be married
from my house, I needed every available room, and applied to my landlady
for the use of it. She demwrred very much, saying she had boxes stored there,
and needed the room; but after much pressing, she was obliged to give way.
To our astonishment, when we unlocked the room, we found it empty, save
for one or two old trunks which occupied no space whatever. The wedding
took place in due time, &c., and afterwards (in September or October, r·
think) my friend, Mrs. F--t, went away on a visit, leaving me alone in the
house with the servants and children. It was while my friend was absent
that I was going upstairs one night to bed, with candle in my hand, when
standing in the open doorway in front of me (which led into the bedroom
beside mine and immediately under the shut room) I saw distinctly a man
standing looking at me. The only light was from my candle; the square
was very badly lighted so that no light came through the window. He was
a tall, dark man, dressed in a grey suit, with heavy dark beard and
moustache; and at first I thought that he was some strange man who had
been surreptitiously introduced by the servants, anti my first expression was,
I am afraid, not ladylike, for I exclaimed, "Hulloa !" anrl walked straight
up to him, intending to ask him who he was and what he was doing there.
He never moved, and by some unaccountable impulse I walked 8traight
through him, into the room. When I turned and looked, he was gone! and
I found myself trembling from head to foot. I sat down on the bed to
recover myself and to consider what had happened, and at first thought of
calling the servants; but on consideration did not do so, as I thought they
might laugh at me. I longed to go down for some brandy, but did not dare;
and after a while I summoned up courage to creep into my room, which was
next door. I then locked the door (contrary to my usual custom) and passed
the night undisturbed, sleeping soundly. I am naturally a very courageous
woman, and Dlay say I hardly know what fear is, and my sensation was more
one of astonishment, nor did I up till that time place the smallest belief in
" ghosts." When I woke next morning, and upon calm reflection considered
what I had seen the night before, I began to think I must only have had an
optical illusion. But I have never on any other occasion been the subject of
a hallucination either of sight or sound. The next night I went up to bed
as usual, when, to my surprise, I saw him again, standing where he stood
the night before.. This time I called the two servants from below, and they
came up behind me, and I asked them if they saw anything there, but they
answered, "No!" I saw the figure, however, the whole time. Saying no
more to them, I sent them down stairs again, and passed right by him,
leaving him standing in the doorway, into my room, and locked the door
behind me. Each night for a whole week I saw him at the same door, till I
became quite accustomed to him, aud felt inclined to speak, and ask him
what he wanted, but dreaded lest he should raise his arm. The figure u"ver
moved, however. After this he disappeared, and I myself never saw him again,
althoJlgh we remained in the house six mouths after or more. When M1'I!.
F--t returned, I told her what I had seen, and we agreed to keep it quite
Digitized by Google
June, 1887.) Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 117
quiet Itnd not tell any of our friends, for fear of being laughed at. But after
further discussion we determined to tell the landlady that we lcnew her house
to be haunted. So on going next time to pay the rent, a friend went with
me, and we agreed to watch the effect of the tidings upon the landlady. So
after a few preliminary remllrks, I said, "I think, Miss P., you should have
told me that your house was haunted," and she started visibly, and ex-
claimed, "Oh! so you have seen him, have you 1" She further said that if
she had told anyone she would never have let the house, and said that if we had
kept that room locked we should not have been troubled. We had a friend,
Mrs. F---r, living at No.7, three rloorsoff from us, with whom we were very
intimate, and we told her about all we had seen and heard, when she remarked
immediately, "Why, that's my ghost! " and told us that she and her children
and servants had all seen precisely the same man. They seemed to be quite
familiar with him. This puzzled us much; but we soon learnt--I can't now
remember from whom I heard thie-that the four houses at the top end of the
square had originally been one; that the square had once had a very bad
name, and that the block of houses had once belonged to the Rothschilds,
and that grass had grown, through neglect, in the middle of the square.
A few months later this same lady let her house and came and lived with
me for a month; and as she was accustomed to the ghost I gave her the room in
which he had appeared, as a sitting-room. One evening, in the dusk, before
the lamps were lit, in November, a young Australian gentleman *- (Irish by
birth), a friend of hers, called to see her; and as I occupied the drawing-
room, I sent him up to her sitting-room to await her. He had not been
there many minutes before he came running down to me in the drawing-
room, looking as pale as a sheet, exclaiming, "For God's sake give
me some brandy!" I said. "Why, what's up 1" "and he said, as he
threw himself on the sofa, " I've seen your ghost." He said he had been up
in the sitting-room waiting for the lady, and was leaning out of the window,
drumming on the window-sill, when he felt a draught of cold air, and
looking round he expected to see Mrs. B., when, to his surprise, he saw a
man standing inside the doorway, dressed in grey, and with his head lowered
forward and a horrid sneer upon his face. It disappeared directly, and he
had then run downstairs in a great fright to me (as described). On another
occasion, when I was away from home, Captain T., of the Guards, who was a
mesmerist, and a great friend of Home (the Spiritualist), was calling on my
friend, Mrs. F--r; they were sitting chatting in the drawing-room, when
he turued suddenly pale and said, " I am sure there is a spirit in this house! "
He had been told about the house. After I had left the house it was let to
some people from Ryde, Isle of Wight, who only stayed in it six months
because no one could sleep in the top room.t The lady who occupied the
house three doors off, and who had also seen the same figure, told me she had
seen it twice. On the first occasion she awoke on a bright moonlight night,
feeling strange, and on sitting up in bed distinctly saw, reflected in a large
cheval glasswhich faced herbed at the foot, the same figure as I did, but slightly
*-Believed to be in Australia now.
t Mr. C. Godfrey went over the house in Christmas, 1883. The house was
then a lodging-house, but no lodgers were in it.-F. P., 15th March, 1885.
Digitized by Google
118 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1887.
stooping forward, with a sneering and malicious expression. The window
was close to the head of the bed, and she immediately jumped out of bed, and
drew aside the blind to see if anyone could be there. But nothing was to be
seen, and the window was BOme height from the ground, wit,h a deep kind of
area and high wall at the back. On another occasion she had been having
lunch in her dining-room on the ground fioor, and on going upstairs she
passed the drawing-room door, which was open, and saw apparently a gentle-
man in a grey suit of clothes sitting near the window, with his head half
turned away. He had dark hair and beard, and seemed to be waiting. She
went into her bedroom for a minute or two and then entered the drawing-
room, expecting to see a visitor; but the room was perfectly empty, and on
questioning the servant she found no one hadcalled. The hall door could not
be opened from the outside. An old servant who lived with her at one time
said that she, like Mrs. F--t in my house, had met something on the stairs
when going up or down in the dusk or early morning that she had to make
way for. Another servant, a young widow, who slept in the basement, rushed
up to her mistnss's bedroom one night when the latter was going to bed, in
her nightdress and half beside ·herself with fright. She declared she was
kneeling up in bed, saying her prayers, with her hands clasped, in the dark,
and someone took hold of her hands and tried to unclasp them, twice. She
was then so terrified that she jumped out of bed and ran to the door, which
was not previously locked, but on trying to open it it seemed to be held
from the other side. She pulled at it in vain for a minute or two, but on her
uttering a prayer it suddenly yielded and she rushed up to her mistress's
room. She would not stay in the house a day longer. On another oCl.'asion,
one of this lady's sons, a fine intelligent boy of about 12, was ill with
measles; his mother was in the drawing-room, but had left the doors open so
that she might hear if he called for anything. At last he called out loudly,
and on his mother going up, he said, "Mother, do turn out that horrid man,
he has been standing there sneering at me." The boy described the same
figure we had both seen, and said he was leaning against the chest of drawers,
rather stooping, and B1!eering at him. His mother did not see the figure on
this occasion.
In answer to our inquiries, Mrs. B. adds:-
27th March, 1885.
I had the account of what she, her boy, and the servants saw, &c., from
Mrs. F--r's own lips. Never said anything of it to her son or the
servants.
From Mrs. F--t.
The sensations I am about to relate occurred to me when I was living
with my friend Mrs. B., at No.4, --square, Brighton, in the year 1870-71.
I was given a room, which we called the front room, at the top of the house
and it was next to the little room afterwards opened. I had been a widow
nearly 20 months, but still there were times when I felt very lonely and
disturbed, as I had been a constant nurse and companion to a sick husband
both night and day, so that when I was first awakened by the feeling of some
one breathing over me, and hearing a sort of whisper, I used to sit up and
say" yes," calling my hUl\band by name, and ask, "do you want anything 7"
Digitized by Google
June,1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 119
then when I was quite awake I felt I must push something away that was
leaning over me, a dark masso-then or afterwards I never saw any distinct
object. This went on for some two months or so, then I began to get ill,
out of sorts, as I never went to bed without feeling I should not get a good
night's rest, but I put it all down to the unhappy state of my mind. At last I
could stand it no longer, so told Mrs. B. I could not sleep by myself, and it
was then I used to go down to her bed every night. In April, I think it; was,
Mrs. B. went to stay with an old schoolfellow, and she left her children,
servants, and house in my charge. After a little while the youngest child
took cold, and I had ht'r downstairs in Mrs. B.'s room to nurse. For three
days she was in danger, and I never left her, and used to go to bed soon
after 9 O'clock, so as to have the room shut up, and not to disturb the child.
As I was very tired I fell off to sleep with the child in my arms, when
suddenly I was awoke by loud talking, and the clatter of plates, knives and
forks. I turned to look at the clock, and saw it was nearly 12. The servants
oUl/ht to have been in bed an hour before, but as the child was sleeping, I
did not move. Again, when the child was nearly well, the same noise was
repeated a.bout the same time of nigbt. I thought to myself tha.t I must tell
Mrs. B. when she comes home that her servants have been taking advantage
of her absence. However, when she did return, I changed my mind, for both
the servants had been very attentive to me, and had helped me in every way in
nursing the little girl. It was after Mrs. B.'s return that the little room was
opened. I wasaway for months on and off, but when I returned in the following
January, in a very happy state of mind at the iol'.IIo of our all being together
again, I was taking some of my small belongings up to the top front room,
when on reaching the last flight of stairs I had to push past a mass of
heaviness, and was stopped by knocking my nose against the wall, at which
I laughed and thought myself very stupid. The next sensation was when I
was sleeping with my friend, and we both awoke at the same moment, when
she said, "Did you hear 1" and I said, " Yes, it's those servants again, let us go
down and catch them." We went down, as my friend has related, and saw
nothing; we only looked at one another and returned upstairs aDd got
into bed without speaking, to the best of my recollection. The only
other time I can mention was when I brought an old lady friend from
London who wanted a change, and as I knew Mrs. B. was away from home,
and would have no objection, I asked her to come down with me, which she
did, but on condition that I would sleep in the next room to her, which
happened to be the very room in which the grey man, as we afterwards
-called him, was seen by Mrs. B. some months later. I can truly say I
never went to slet'p in that little room until 4 or 5 in the morning, though at
that time no one, to our knowledge, knew that the house was haunted; I
always, during the 10 nights I occupied that room, felt as if I "hould be-
.smothered if I did go to sleep. After that time I stayed a great deal with
friends in London and elsewhere, and it was during that time that my friend
wrote and told me that she had seen a ghost, and when we met in September
I told her for the first time of all my sensations. We did not use the top
-front room after that time, but turned a sitting-room into a bedroom, so
-that I and Mrs. B. slept on the same floor, being the two rooms over the
Digitized by Google
120 JOU1'nal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1881.
dining and drawing rooms. The little girl, though wishing to sleep with me
when I used the top front room, always began to cry and say, "May I stop
with the others until auntie comes up to bed 7" and when the room was Ull-
occupied, in the twilight the two eldest children used to say, "Do come
. upstairs and see Katie's angels and coloured lights," but we could never get
anything out of the litt-Ie one, but that she did not like to be in the room by
herself because there were lights on the ceiling, and the windows used to
shake. I remember there was a horrid old brindled cat in the house, and
it used to fly about the place and never go out beyond the yard with a very
high wall all round; it never made friends with any of us, and after the
little room at the top of the house was opened it disappeared altogether.
It used to sit and moan on the stairs and behave as I never heard or saw a
cat before or since. CAROLINE F---T.
.April 6th, 1885.
In answer to inquiries, Mrs. F--t stated that she had read Mrs. B.'s
account (printed above) before writing her own. She declined to state
whether she had experienced any other hallucination.
Mrs. B. stated that she had not experienced any other hallucination.
It is feared that it will not be possible to trace Mrs. F--r.
CORRESPONDENCE.
PROFESSIONAL MEDIUMSHIP.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,--I wish to make a few remarks with regard to the possibility of
investigation of "Phenomenal Spiritualism," and to point out (I) some
difficulties that are likely to befall the scientific or serious inquirer, under
the present circumstances, and with so few opportunities afforded to him;
(2) some striking incongruities on the part of seance-room" spirits" in general;
and (3) the incompetency of the average Spiritualist as regards the observa-
tion and verification of the various phenomena and usual occurrences which
may be witnessed in the presence of mediums.
The recent controversy in the Jowrnal on the BUbject of "Physical
Phenomena" will, I think, induce many members of the Society to
personally investigate these mysteries. It is especially to those that my
remarks are addressed. I must confess that my experience was obtained
almost exclusively in London, and that consequently I may have missed the
opportunity of witnessing more conclusive phenomena which may occur in
other localities. Whether my remarks will also apply to the "spirits"
manifesting with mediums in other countries is more than I dare affirm just
now; for, it may be that matters look different and brighter elsewhere.
However, since the headquarters of the Society for Psychical Research are,
like the majority of its members, established in London, the principal work
of systematic research will have to be carried out within a radius of seven
miles from Charing Cross. It may, perhaps, be of some advantage that for
this very reason my evidence is likely to be more readily verifiable.
Digitized by Google
June, 1887.] Joul'nal of Society for P8'!Jchical Research. 121
There may be some difficulty just at present for the inquirer to get
admission to seances for physical manifestations, because at the few seances
now held in London only confirmed believers are admitted. In most cases,
however, the inquirer will be welcome if introduced by a Spiritualist known to
the medium, upon his declaration that he is prepared to believe in the
reality of the phenomena which occur ill the medium's presence. But even
when admitted, the inquirer has no alternative but to either allow himself
to be converted, on the spot, or to submit himself to considerable loss
of time lind othel" annoyances. There are two ways open to him: to believe
from the literature on the subject that may have come into his hands or from
the statements made by Spiritualists; or to patiently wait until he has
accumulated sufficient evidence to judge for himself. He cannot, as a
neophyte, propose tests and experiments because he is supposed not to
entertain any doubts as regards the nature and origin of the phenomena.
Should he succeed in· gaining the confidence of the medium and circle, and,
after his more or less regular attendance at these seances, be allowed to
introduce a test experiment, conducted upon common-sense principles, ht'·
will find that the results do but partly satisfy his object in view, or that the
experiment fails in toto.
As a mle, the excuses made by the circle are to the effect that probably
the conditions were unfavourable, or that the medium was not very well that
evening, or the" power" was used up. A promise is given that the inquirer's
request will be attended to on a future occasion. He is kept in prolonged
su~pense until at some remote period the ligid test is actually repeated. If
it succeeds to some extent-(for it never succeeds in all respects to prove the
illterventim~ 0/ spirits of deceased human beirtgs)-more experiments are
necessary; but no matter how often a test may be introduced, there will be
always some discrepancy one way or another. In most cases, however, tht'·
results are nil or they point in the direction of trickery. I know of not a
single case where results obtained were of a convincing nature unless tht'
experimenter was at least a little on his way to become a believer in the
Spiritualist's theories. Here, it will be seen, lies a very grave difficulty which
entirel), blocks the avenue to conviction upon reasonable terms. The
experiment fails-and the failure is attributed to the inquirer's sceptical or
antagonistic attitude. The scientific investigator wishes to be convinced of
the tmth of the assertion that the phenomena are real and produced by, or
through the intervention of, "spirits," and for this he requires absolute
demonstrable facts; yet he cannot obtain the facts because his mind is so
constituted as to entertain no reasonable ground for a belief in either the
"spirits" or the facts! This may seem an anomaly, but in the investigation
of spiritualistic phenomena it is nevertheless a truism that success depends
upon faith. It is much to be regretted that, under such circumstances,
Spiritualists should ever have called upon" Science" to prove their assertiuns
or demonstrate the truth of their theories.
What seems to be an important clue to the explanation of some of the
phenomena is, that they are not affected by any supposed counteracting
influence if the medium and circle are unaware that a certain amount of
scepticism is lurking in the mind of a neophyte present. The necessity of
Digitized by Google
122 J01trnal of Society for Psychical RP.search. [June, 1887.
" harmony," as an induction to good results, should be well taken into con-
sideration by any newly-introduced investigator. Doubts as to the possible
intentions of the latter, arising in the minds of the circle or, more directly,
in tbe minds of the medium, will not only interrupt the proceedings but almost
invariably bring the s~ance to a sudden termination; for, it would appear
that the medium, in order to allow the" spirits" to act through his organism,
must atlSUnle a condition somewhat analogous to that of self-induced trance, or
a submission to the operator's (" spirit's") will, as in the case of a " subject" in
hypnotic sleep. If not ccmfortable and confident, the medium will naturally
counteract the influence, or decline to submit himself to it altogether. Hence,
if there is no trance, nOlle of the phenomena can follow because these latter
are mostly produced automatically by the medium himself when in the con-
dition called trance. I will deal with this point more fully ill the records of
my observations of " materialispd forms" and pass on to my general remarks.
At seances held in private, viz., where the medium is a friend or member of
the family and not a paid medium engaged for the occasion, the inquirer, if
admitted at all, will find little that can instruct him. The members of private
circles show no disposition to submit their" spirits" or their medium to scienti-
fic scrutiny or cross-examination. Besides, in but few,of such meetings would
he (the inquirer) discover any objective phenomena except" table-tilting."
Perhaps he might, occasionally, meet with cases of moving luminosities or
"spirit-lights," so-called, or of raps and movements of objt'Cts occurring
without visible contact. But much as the investigator may be struck or
puzzled by these phenomena, he cannot discllss them in scientific terms.
still less try their reality by experiment.
I feel also bound to state that, in my opinion, and as far as my experience
goes, the records or phenomt"na said to have occurred at private circles are
grossly exaggerated; that, furthermore, most of the remarkable phenomena
were obtained with paid mediums engaged for the evening. Consequently
there exists no reasonable ground to assume, as most Spiritualists are wont
to do, that the spiritual manifestations to be witnessed at private seances are
in any way of a more powerful or more exalting nature than the usual
"occurrences" characteristic to heterogeneous 01" public seances at "so
much" per head. The difference in quality of manifestations witnt"ssed at
either the one or the other class of meetings appears to be simply this: at
private meetings messages of a private nature are rapped out or given by
tilts, and" forms" appearing are generally said to have been recognised as
spirits of deceased relatives; whilst the "forms" appearing with public
mediums are only "John Kings," "Peters," "Charlies," &c., but who
will, if an opportunity is afforded them, pe1"aonate spirits of deceased
relatives. At the public seances the programme includes the exhibition of
fun, which chiefly consists in a rather rough behavio\lr on the part of the
"spirits" present, who seem to delight in throwing furniture about the room,
or whose principal occupation is to fly the" fairy bells," &c. Private" physical
mediums," viz., persons through whose agency or organisation the usual
seance-room phenomena are produced, and which consist in materialisations
of spirits, levitation, or the passage of matter through matter, do not, 80 far
as I am aware, exist in London at the present moment; or they are kept in
Digitized by Google
June,I887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 123
profound seclusion-·at any rllte, they are inacce88ible to those who take a
real interest ill the subject. There are, however, persons who claim to
posse88 physical mediumship, but my personal experience is that the
phenomena occurring in their presence are limited to table tilts, rappings,
and" spirit voices," so-called (the latter being especially unverifiable), and
that the more decided spirit manifestations, as understood by the Spiritualists
themselves, do not occur at their seances.
My experience of "private mediums" has induced me to arrive at the
conclusion that they are" amateur mediums." They write with planchette
{)r hold impromptu addreSBes, and consider themselves guided by spirits or
under direct" spiritual contro!." The investigator into the rt'alms of occult
mystery can find nothing that will interest him at their seances or meetings,
-except an occasional indication of telepathy between the circle and medium,
the latter being invariably the recipient. Yet a mere suggestion, which
might be made by the inquirer, as to the po88ibility of thought-transference
being an explanation of the frequent "lucky hits" made by the medium
(sometimes called the clairvoyant) would be treated with scom. It should
also be borne in mind that, as regards private mediums and their alleged
phenomena, a good deal depends upon the definition of the term" private."
Spiritualists generally confine that term to aU persons who ohtain certain
results ill planchette-writing, trance-speaking, clairvoyant descriptiol1s, and
-even to sensitives to mesmeric influence; or, what is somewhat exceptional,
to certain persons suffering from certain forms of Ry.teria, insanity, &c.,
and who are considered to be possessed of some" evil" or "unruly" spirit.
All sl1ch persons are considered private mediums so long as they do not offer
themselves publicly as subjects for scientific experimentation or receive any
honorarium for their services. Nevertheless, and this is a fact well known to
Spiritualists, nearly all the now existing paid mediums were at one time
.. private," and seances held with them have been described as "private,"
although no mention is made that these mediums were then what is termed
developing for physical mediumship. The real fact is that paid mediums,
during their novitiate, were by nece88ity compelled to "sit" with circles
gratuitously because they could not then depend, with any amount of
certainty, upon the production of any phenomena. The" occurrences," if
presenting themselves at all, were too imperfect and too coarse in their
nature to allow such mediums to hold public seances where success depends
upon the regular production of certain characteristic phenomena.
Another Kind of Spiritualistic seances to which I will briefly allude is
that where "friends" assemble for the purpose of holding what they con-
sider to be communion with the spirits of deceased relatives, but where
spiritual phenomena are conspicuous by their absence. There is usually a
good deal of table-movement, and by the tilts messages are spelled out.
Sometimes the "friends" assembled will speak a few words under" spirit
influence." Then this influence (or some other influence) will affect another
friend present, who also holds a short addre88. I have noted down a few of
these speeches as specimens, but prefer to keep them under cover because
it is not my intention to trouble the inquirer with samples of productions of
diseased minds. A scientific inquirer cannot, as a rule, get admi88ion to
Digitized by Google
124 Jo'U'1'1tal of Society fOT P8ychical Research. [June, 1887.
these places-which he need not regret-since the chief object of the circle is
to converse with the spirits of their more intimate relatives and friends,
chiefly about matters that cannot interest a stranger.
Having thus far dealt with the different kinds of localities where spirits
are said to be present, I will now describe my experience as regards the·
supposed spirits themselves. The investigator's first difficulty will be to.
obtain satisfactory evidence of the identity of what I will call s6ance-room
"spirits"-e.g., those strange beings who are the regular attendants (guides) of
the mediuDl. By holding s6ances alternatively with medium A, B, and C,
it will be noticed that spirits who are said to appear through the mediumship
of A, B, and C, who claim to be the same individualities in each
case, are, nevertheless, distinct beings (if beings), each belonging to.
a particular medium. For instance, the "John King," "Peter," and
"Charlie" of medium A, profess to manifest likewise through medium B
and C. Yet, after attending a series of s6ances with A, the investigator will
discover, on attending a s6ance with B or C, that he is a perfect stranger to.
the" spirits" appearing there. To be more explicit I will give a few examples.
The "John King," "Peter," and "Charlie" I had met a hundred times
at seances with Mr. Husk as medium, did not recognise me when at a
s~ance with Mr. Hearne, although the above-named "spirits" of Husk had
often told me that they did regularly manifest through Hearne and o.ther
mediums. They had even promised to give me a test of their identity,
should I ever be present at s6ances with these other mediums. At Mrs.
Jencken's I received a written message from a "John King." The next day
I met "John King" at Husk's. Asked whether· he had met me the day
before, his reply was in the negative. At Hearne's I met" John King," who·
said he knew me; but he, nevertheless, declined to reply to the questions I
put to him. A few days afterwards the "John King" at Husk's
informed me of my visit to Hearne, but gave no particulars of what
happened there. N.B.-A gentleman present at Hearne's referred, in
the presence of the medium's wife, to my regular visits to Husk. This
at once led me to presume that the mediums had been in communica-
tion or that some one else had given certain information. At Hearne's
I had intentionally declined to give my name, which was, besides, not
known to the gentleman mentioned, who only knew me as a visitor at
Husk's. The next day I returned to Hearne's s~ance and met "Charlie,"
who pretended to know me. Said "Charlie," "I did recognise you all the
time but I felt such a delight in puzzling you." Asked whether he would tell
my name the reply was: "Now then, there'sa lark; well, you are Mr. Keelar "
(aie). After "Cha.rlie's "fiasco and "John King's" unwillingness to satisfy
Dly curiosity, I felt no. Io.nger induced to co.ntinue my visits at Hearne's.
I am under the impression that, as a generality, "spirits" know no more o.f
worldly matters than their mediums do., and that the knowledge they appear
to possess with regard to the circle is in direct proportion to the information
the mediums have succeeded in co.llecting. Still, it has, on the other hand,
been my experience that mentio.n was made by the "spirits" at the public
s6ance-room of facts which the medium could no.t be supposed to. have known ;
or that descriptions, even to the most minute details, were given of objecta
Digitized by Google
.June, 1887.] JO'U1"1Utl of Society for Psychical Research. 125
and the colour of dress, &c., worn by those assembled at the sOO,nce, and
which it would seem could hardly have been lIoticed by the medium. I do
not state that it was absolutely impossible for the mooium to have become
-acquainted with, or cognisant of, these quasi·secrets. My experience would
rather lead to the conclusion that the" spirits" are ignorant of facts which the
medium has had no opportunity to acquaint himself with in the ordinary
way; but that a medium, when in the condition termed" trance," or when
in some analogous state, may be endowed with higher powers of perception,
and thus communicate uncollsciously, such perceptions to the invisible
beings (or" spirits") attached to him; or he may automatically act the part of
the "spirit" under the latter's control, like a subject in the hypnotic trance will
follow the suggestions of his agent-his" willer." But it appears that in
most cases these conditions are either disturbed or totally absent, and that
the medium is compelled to guess and try the best he can. I will quote an
·example which will, I think, fully demonstrate the truth of my assertion.
At a seance, held in private but with a paid medium, the" spirits," who were
heard moving about the room, only recogllised those persons whom the
medium knew to be present before the lights were extinguished. A stranger,
who had been accidentally overlooked by the medium, was notonly not found
·out by the" spirits," but his presence actually denied by them.
I will now deal with the cases of recognitions, by the circle, of the
"forms," viz., the presumed "materialised forms" of spirits, appearing at
seances. Without wishing to misrepresent the position of Spiritualism, I
feel bound to state that, so far as my experience goes, the capital tenet of its
crero rests upon insufficient grouuds. From what I have been able to
discover, I cannot but unhesitatingly declare that all the so·called recognitions
are delusions. The circumstances uuder which these" forms" appeared made
it impossible for the persons present to observe any features whatsoever, or
to recogniRe the voices of any of the "forms" which came, sometimes but
partly, forward. To make myself well understood I will mention two
typical cases which have come under my observation.
At private s6ances, held weekly, at the residence of a lady, a paid
medium* being engaged, a " spirit" performs the r{)le of the lady's deceased
husband. This" spirit" I could readily recognistl by the strange intonation
·of its voice. It ouly shows itself if the medium is allowed (or is directed by
his "spirits") to sit apart. It never showd any features, as the head is
invariably covered with drapery-the excuse made by the "spirit" for not
uncovering its head being" that the face is but partly materialised and not
fit to be exhibited" (sic). The spirit's voice, however, joins in the topical
conversation, addresses the lady by her Christian name, and gives little bits
of advice, if required. I have noticed that this particular "form" is just
the size of the medium, but appears shorter on account of its somewhat bent
and contracted attitude. The voice is apparently weak-which, like the
attitude aBsumeil, is-so the" spirit" declares-the result of its having died
from a long and painful illness! Yet the lady recognises this "fonn" as
her husbanrl. But it so happells that the same medium holds seances at his
own residence for Spiritualists and, to some extent, admits enquirers.
*The names and addresses are given in confidence to the editor.
Digitized by Google
126 Jov,1"nal of Society /0'1' Psychical Research. [June, 1887.
At these s6ances the same "form," with its weak voice, appears somewhat
irregularly, and performs the "spirit" of the deceased husband of another lady.
III t.he earlier times of my visits at these seances this" form" attempted to·
pass itself off as one of my deceased brothers. Unfortunately for the" spirit,"
the wonld-be brother did not know my Christian name, nor his own, and to-
make things still more absurd, spoke in English, which my brother had never
spoken. But to retUMl to the widowed ladies, who each received visits from
their departed husbands. Mrs. A. holds s6ances at her residence, and rarely
visits the medium at his own house, while Mrs. B. invariably goes to the·
latter place. The ladies are strangers to each other. By accident, Mrs. A.
once visited the medium at his public seances the very evening when Mrs.
B. was there. It occurred to me that the" spirit" would this time get into-
difficulties. I was anxiously awaiting the solution of the problem, expecting
either the discovery of fraud by, or a dispute between, the two ladies
conceMled. But the thing was cleverly managed after all, and both ladies.
received the customary visits of their respective husbands to their entire
satisfaction. This is how it was arranged ;-
First, Mrs~ B. was favoured with the exhibition-by a sheet of luminous
paper-of a "form" showing only part of the head, the face being covered
with drapery, so arrangecl as to allow only Mrs. B. to see the forehead and
eyes. To the remaining portion of the circle, with the exception of one or
two persons sitting at her right side, the features were hidden. However,.
the" spirit" never uttered a solind, which was contrary to its habits, and
disappeared without evell wishing her his customary "Good-night, God
bless you." As a sign of recognition, Mrs. B. exclaims the name of her dead
husband! A few seconds after a spirit-voice (one of the" guides") addresses
the circle, informing them that Mr. B. had appeared to his wife, but felt
rather weak, and that hence he could not materialise a voice (sic). Towards.
the end of the seance, a soft, trembling voice was heard to whisper close to
the ears of Mrs. A., another " spirit-voice" announcillg the arrival of Mr. A.
Silence was requested by the medium's wife, all the voice of Mr. A. was
weak. The usual compliment was made, the invariable blessings invoked by
pseudo Mr. A., when Mrs. A. expressed her surprise at not beholding her
long-lost husband ill the" materialised" form. Then the whispering spirit,
by way of an explanation for his shortcomings, excused itself by stating that
" power was getting exhausted" and that a materialisation of a body could
not be accomplished without injury to the medium, but that she (Mrs. A.)·
might expect better results next time at her own circle! It should be noted
that the "spirit," in order to avoid discrepances, showed part of its face,
without using its Yoice, when near Mrs. B., and that it used its whisper but
did not show its form when addressing Mrs. A. It need not be mentioned
that both the ladies failed to discover the trick, and that each left the
seance-room under the pleasant satisfaction of having once more communed
with her departed husband.
A few days after, Mrs. B. again attended a s6ance at the medium's house,.
when, as might have heen expected, a "spirit" claiming to be Mr. B. appeared
to the lady. Up to that evening Mrs. B. had not put allY questions to hel'
supposed husband, but had satiEfied herself with listening to what the" spirit"
Digitized by Google
June, 1887.J Journal of Society for P8ychical Research.. 127
said to her, or rather seemed to attempt to say to her, since, as Mrs. B.
informed me herself, she did not very well understand what her husband
said. I believe doubts as to the genuineness of the apparition began
to arise in Mrs. B.'s mind. . Whether some one had prompted
her to try a test she did not say, but a test she did introduce,
and a good one it turned out to be. Mrs. B.'s husband (her real husband)
was a Belgian, and conversation between husband and wife was
usually held in the French language. When the "form" appeared, Mrs.
B. addresses it in French, asking-not without emphasis-"G., IU-tua me dire
quelque chose f" to which" Monsieur G.'s materialised spirit" replies with a
series of monosyllabic utterances sounding like boo-boo-boo, and he
terminates his reply by a repetition of the last word of the question, chose.
(It will be noticed that this word would not have been likely to recur in an
answer to the question.) A few days later on, a seance is given at the house
of a Spiritualist, with the same medium, Mrs. B. being again present, and, at
the" form" of her presumed husband making his usual appearance, she once
more repeats the question and, needless to lLdd, with exactly the same
results. Yet, after all this worthless evidence, all these badly-played tricks,
the Medium and Daybreak, a Spiritualistic newspaper, records the seance in
its next appearing number, and quotes as a specially convincing event the
fact that a French lady present met her deceased husband and actually
conversed with him in her native tongue!
I have mentioned only these two cases out of many of a similar quality;
in fact at almost every seance I was present snch similar "recognitions"
were the order of the evening. Not only did husbands, fathers, mothers
appear to the circle, but even little" forms" were seen and" recognised" as
the children of some of the members of the circle, although these "thingR"
kept at the respective distance of many yards, and never ventured into the
light, if such were allowed in the room, or used the luminous slates for
their exhibition when the seance was a dark one.* Besides the" relatives"
met at seances for physical manifestations I must also refer to the exhibition
of periodical spirit-celebrities-like the Prince Imperial, Colonel Burnaby,
General Gordon, some recently-executed criminal, all of whom are said to be
recognised by the circle.
From what may be seen and experienced at these seances, it would appear
that the obvious mistakes and unfounded recognitions on the part of the
circle are caused by a combination of influences acting simultaneously, such
as, for instance, fear, an:xi~ty, expectation, firm belief in the possibility of
spirit return, and trust in the assertiolls of other believers. Besides, it
will be found that there is a marked deficiency in the powers of observation
in all those persons who believe in having met a spirit-friend or relative in
the materialised condition. Further, there are a great many Spiritualists, good
observers, UPOll whose co~petency as leaders and advisers many inquirers
* On one occasion, however, a little form ran through the seance.room, exhi·
biting itself sufficiently to show that the proportions were those of a. child. There
were no children of so small proportions in the house where the seance, which
was a private one, was held.
Digitized by Google
128 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1887.
rely, who have not personally met with such cases, but who nevertheless con-
firm their reality because "all the other witnesses cannot be mistaken." I
have reasons to believethat,under t,he circumstances prevailingat dark s6ances,
weak-mfnded, credulous or emotional persons are ready victims to sensory
hallucinations. In fact, if hallucinations come into play at all, or anywhere,
it must be here in these very places. I will not. quote such cases where the
members of a circle, or some of them are obviously suffering from a peculiar
form of insanity (though these sufferers appear to be more numerous than
is generally supposed), and with whom the enquirer will often find himself
obliged to mix-persons, I mean, who illsist upon his unconditionally
a.ccepting all the miracles they will tell him of-who see a spirit behind
everybody; who observe the" spirits" assisting Mr. Maskelyne at his enter-
taillments, and of whose glaring absurdities the scientific im·estigator cannot,
as a matter of course, take the slightest notice.
What I wished to direct special attention to is, that the very stronghold
Qf modern Spiritualism rests upon no other foundations than the rash
assertions on the part of unqualified recorders who are guided by infatuation
rather than by reason. In all the cases of supposed recognised apparitions
at s6ances where I happened to he present, the necessary conditions to
discriminate between the genuine and the fraudulent were invariably
disregarded. The medium was directed by the spirit-voice to sit away from
the circle, and, consequently, there were no means to ascertain whether the
"forms" appearing Wl're being disconnected f,om the medium, or the
medium himsl'lf acting under hypnotic impulse, or a fraud. Direct proof of a
" form's" identity was not even required; it seemed sufficient for the" form"
to merely answer the question, " Are YOIl so-and-so 1" in the affirmative. After
this, the circle proclaimed unanimously the apparition of so-and-so. If, what
occasionally happens, the "form" volunteered additional evidence, it was
always the world's property, or previously "let out," i.e., offered to the
" spirit" to help him along, by the circle itself.
But my object in alluding to the various ills of the present-day seance-
room is not, as might be supposed, to warn the intended investigator against
the subject of Spiritualism in toto. In how far all the usual occurrences are
true or not true is a qUl'stion which I must leave the inquirer to find out for
himself. My opinion is, that (1) genuine spiritual phenomena occur some-
times; (2) that some of the occurrences are explk-able by telepathy and
" psychic-interaction" on the part of the circle and medium; and, lastly,
that most of t.he "form presentations" are frauds for which the medium may
not be entirely respollsible. The facts I have quoted were mostly accidl'ntal
discoveries marie during long continued, patient, and vigorous investigation
in all directions, and with every accessible medium, private or public, as
circumstances permitted. I merely wished to have my remarks made public
to save the intended inquirer-who may be a total stranger to the subject-
much disappointment in the ..xpectations he may perhaps entertain. To those
likely to precipitate themselves into this dark abyss it may be useful to learn
some of the results of my experience of nearly 400 seances, in the more
compressed form of a few pages of letter-press.-I remaiu, Sir, yours
obediently, J. G. KEULBIfANS.
Digitized by Google
