{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1peter_p_ste.html","mytitle":"Peter P STE 9543","mylang":"de"}
          	        Peter P STE 9543  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Peter P STE  					  					  						Home  						Classification STE  						5139 Peter P STE 9543  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    While waking up during a bypass-surgery, I had an experience with light that I'm calling Déjà-vu. There have been countless  documented near-death experiences of this stage of return. As my experience didn't have a linear sequence of happenings and the timeline was playing the other way around, the term 'Déjà-vu' comes closer to what was experienced. Imagine the process  if you would cut the timeline someplace with scissors, then also cutting the next piece, then twist these together at 180 degrees and then gluing it  back. Reality becomes  scrolled for the experiencer in a way that they are always aware what will follow in the next few seconds.
  
  In the beginning of this vision, I could predict word-for-word the dialogs and  actions happening in the environment upon waking.  Then I would hear it again exactly as it happened. That timelines could scroll  in the other sense was not something new to me. But that they happen to also be an exact part of reality and simply belong to the human body of experience, doesn't fit with a linear view of the world. Nor can the intellect relate with this unbelievable experience. In order to process this experience, I for sure shall still need a number of stories and accounts from other metaphysical travelers to be able to obtain it's quintessence. For some reason I received the gift of alternative time lines. 
  
  In the initial phase of waking up,  I also received an experience with light of such a wonderful quality, that it is difficult to describe with words.  I was shown three light waves on which today's humanity is evolving. For the sake of logic, I'm defining them here as the self-imposed pathways of awareness, that each individual can take  to obtain the best possible results from their particular choice. The first way is what the main part of the global population has chosen  and the daily struggle is enacted in that timeline. I don't want to give the impression that path is in any way  better or superior than the other timelines. All experiences in human life eventually lead back to the divine light. 

  The second path was shown to me as a mixed way in a gray color. Here, euphoric phases are alternated in  quick succession with depressive stages. It is as if people were switching between phases of competence and phases  lacking of power, and then again to a new euphoric phase. 

  The third way is the one of the absolute victimhood. It was shown to me in colors dark and black. Power and responsibility were handed over to outer entities. Here only a very small part of the light spark can be addressed through motivation. Many beings of light from higher planes are providing a selfless service here, to again illuminate the way back to the light. This way corresponds with the absolute free choice of each individual as to whether they choose  towards light or darkness.
    
    I was also shown that in this darkness exists one of the most unbelievable choicess for humanity, because in this choice is also is the possibility to change the  galaxy. The core truths of Love, Compassion, Kindness and Benevolence are towards what the human nature can and will evolve.
    
    The first path of those three is so unbelievable for us incarnated beings. It can only be termed with definitions of Utopia, heavenly life of angels and/or ecstatic rapture.  
    
    There is a beautiful part of beings who always stay in this realm. They are dancing and singing through life. For them terms like synchronicity, grace, or cosmic guidance are the absolute central and essential elements in life. They realize how creation is working and that a life without the connection with the One Power of creation would disrupt everything. Humor, joy, fun, respect, compassion and gratitude is with them round the clock. In this wonderful place all fear is dissolved like mist in a brilliant sun. It is an all-encompassing field with absolute acceptance, comfort, peace, connectedness and a 100% awareness to be at the right place. 
    
    During this time of considering those things, I was guided by a wonderful being of light. I don't remember somebody else or meeting a certain individual. Only those impressions of the light of love and the perfect comprehension and acceptance remained. 
    
    In that moment, it simply seemed unbelievable and impossible to choose another path than the one of the light. What illuminates my life again and again from my light experience, is the irrepressible joy and happiness of an experience of indescribable beauty. I believe that all the people go through this same wonderful experience in a state of separation of the body (general anesthesia, unconsciousness) unfortunately they cannot all remember it.   
    
    I felt pure love, shining brighter than anything you can imagine. Everything is as beautiful, as pure as love and compassion. So that when you cross the veil and return to the other side you are becoming a part of it. We are bathing in the beauty of the song that makes our heart singing - That's God.
    
    Nobody can give us something bigger. We wouldn't see it or understand it. That's Spirit in its highest form.
    
    We as humans feel so alone and on our own. It's such a crushing feeling to remain in this imagined separation of our most wonderful thing and then to feel this earthly experience so painfully. 
    
    In the middle of life, a light experience happens that sweeps away all the reactions about this imaginary separation and dissolves the last doubts with this pure white light like a fog. It's the  disintegration of a self-constructed veil that prevented a realization that all people are entitled to have as their birthright. It's delightful to know that the light is the most wonderful symphony in the cosmos and that it contains the colors and the sense of touch of the most beautiful experiences. A wonderful soul experience, that is imprinted in the deepest cells of the body.
    
    For a moment I was on this other side of the veil. I was allowed to be part of this wonderful source of creation. Together with billions of points of light, which we call angel beings, shining brighter than the light. I was in the company of the highest compassion, with the highest Love.
    
    All media, the total daily literature is filled with the dramas happening around the globe every  minute. 

    How can somebody get the idea to write a text motivating us to get another point of view about the calamities in the world? What is motivating him to see the good in all those events, even if they might be so disturbing? That's probably the one decisive question for the survival of manhood. Thought power of the whole humanity is used to bring anarchy and separation between people. Human thoughts are creative and should, and can, be guided by us into appropriate pathways. 

    It depends on all of us to exercise our responsibility and to realize the true impact of our actions here in its entirety. We can't avoid to completely step away from all dramas. Disasters and calamities of humanity want to invite us to send our compassion and our benevolent energy generously towards the concerned people. Something which should be rather considered normal if our brothers and sister are in need.

    Even if the spiritual life can't be proved 100%, there are  irrefutable testimonies of this process. For me this process of evidence became superfluous since my light experience. Even though I got some distance to this wonderful experience; looking back, I know that this experience has been burned indelibly into my memory. Our home is with and in our soul. A connection that remains inextricably and eternal. Such an illuminating event, filling us with a longing, singing our names in the eternal light. Such a wonderful symphony, which is always moving us to tears.    
    
Background Information:       

Gender: 	Male    

Date NDE Occurred: 	 October 2021    

NDE Elements:       

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness Heart attack While under general anesthesia    Bypass- Operation  Life threatening event, but not clinical death     The doctor told me after the surgery that I had ventricular fibrillation. (Cardiac arrest.)    

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant    

Did you feel separated from your body?    No      I lost awareness of my body    

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was as if there was no filter standing in the way.    

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was with this Light entity.    

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual    

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No       

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid    

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     What can you tell somebody living in its three dimensional box about thousands of other dimensions?    

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I have no clue if and how I used my sense of hearing.    

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No    

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No         

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No    

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No         

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin    

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   This light is the most impressive of all experiences. Simply indescribably bright and pure, like nothing else.    

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The different timelines, or lines of probability were clearly subdivided by the different intensities of light.    

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       The biggest range of wonderful emotions. No negative or disturbing emotions.    

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness    

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy    

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world    

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No         

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No         

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No         

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No       

God, Spiritual and Religion:       

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   Left church already many years ago.    

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No         

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated       

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     There was no altered perception.    

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No         

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   My companion of light was leading me through many situations and different visions. His light disclosed me the important details and relationships during my trip to the afterlife.    

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No    

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     There was this clear fact that separation could exist only on an individual and intellectual plane. In the light-mode separation is an absolute impossibility.    

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The being of light on my side showed all the characteristics that you would expect of an all-loving God.    

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:       

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Life is  not a school but a remembrance about what we really are.    

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     The experience was exactly this, that life is eternal and imperishable.    

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No         

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Difficulties are gifts helping us getting back into balance.    

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is the alpha and omega... the whole life is only about this.    

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     My experience has been extracting possibilities more clearly. Dissolving fear is for sure the most important change.    

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No     

After the NDE:       

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It seems that the intellect was completely deactivated, because the light didn't allow any duality.    

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  There was no altered perception.    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No         

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Fear was minimized.    

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Yes, I was sharing it with my loved ones.    

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I love to read other people's near-death experiences.    

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The experience was so impressive.    

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Experience is still very impressive.    

    At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   During physical rehabilitation in a group, I talked about my light experience with a Female psychologist and other concerned people, some of them being in a wheelchair. When I told them that without this bypass surgery I wouldn't have had this wonderful experience, the whole room illuminated in a brilliant light, what must have seemed like a miracle for all people present. When leaving this meeting all had changed.    
    
Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No    

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No                                 			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1peter_p_ste.html